MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Healthy Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 c  Packed, finely shredded
           Cabbage (about 1 pound)
      1 md Onion,finely chopped
           (1/2 cup)
  1 1/2 tb Corn oil
      1 c  Packed shredded carrot
           (2 medium)
      1 cl Garlic,minced (1 heaping
           Tablespoon)
    1/2 lb Ground round or lean ground
           Beef
      1    Egg white
      1    Whole egg
    1/3 c  Bread crumbs,preferably
           Whole wheat
      1 ts Dried basil,crumbled
    1/4 ts Oregano,crumbled
    1/2 ts Fresh ground black pepper,
           To taste
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 c  Packed shredded potatoes
           (2 medium)
 
  Saute cabbage and onion in the oil in a large skillet over medium
  heat,stirring them often,for about 5 minutes.Reduce the heat to
  medium low and saute the vegetables for 5 to 10 minutes longer or
  until cabbage begins to turn golden. Add the carrots and garlic;saute
  the vegetables another 5 minutes.Remove the vegetables from the heat
  and let them cool to room temperature. In a large bowl,combine the
  beef with the egg white and whole egg,bread
  crumbs,basil,oregano,black pepper,water and vinegar. Add the cooked
  vegetables and shredded potatoes to the beef mixture.Mix ingredients
  well. In a shallow baking pan,shape the meat and vegetable mixture
  into a loaf about 8" long.Cover the pan tightly with aluminum foil.
  Bake the meat loaf in a preheated 350 degree oven for 30
  minutes.Uncover the meat loaf and bake it 30 minutes longer. Let the
  meat loaf rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. Serve 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Burgundy
 Categories: Beef, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Stew beef,cut into 2" cubes
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Vegetable oil
     12 sm White onions,peeled
     12 oz Fresh mushrooms,trimmed
    3/4 c  Burgundy wine
    3/4 c  Beef broth
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  In a sturdy plastic bag,combine beef and flour.Shake to coat well. In
  electric skillet with heat control set at 325 degrees brown beef
  cubes,about 4 to 5 minutes.Add onions and mushrooms.Saute onions until
  brown and mushrooms are dark.Add wine and broth.Bring to boil,
  stirring well.Add bay leaf,salt and pepper.Cover.Turn heat control
  down until light goes out (simmer point).Simmer 1 1/2 to 2 hours,
  stirring occasionally,until meat is tender and sauce is thick.Makes 4
  to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wok Beef Burgundy
 Categories: Asian, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Beef,cut into 1" cubes
      3 c  Water
     12 sm White onions
    1/4 c  Flour
      6 tb Olive oil
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      1 c  Fresh mushrooms
      2 c  Burgundy or other good
           Red wine
      1 c  Beef broth
  1 1/2 ts Thyme leaves
      2 ts Parsley flakes
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  In wok,add water and heat to boiling over high heat.Add onions and
  blanch 3 minutes;then drain.Discard water and dry wok.Dust beef with
  flour. Heat oil until it bubbles in the wok.Add 6 to 8 beef cubes at
  a time and quickly brown on all sides.Remove beef and keep
  warm.Lightly brown onions and garlic.Return the beef to wok.Add
  remaining ingredients, cover and simmer over low heat about 1 1/2
  hours or until meat is tender.Remove the bay leaf.Serve on toasted
  buttered bread,noodles or mashed potatoes.Serves 4 to 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak with Brandy
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Beef top loin or strip
           Steaks, cut 1" thick, about
           2 1/4 lbs.
      1 tb Cracked peppercorns
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Chopped shallots OR
           Scallions
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1    Beef bouillon cube
    3/4 c  Boiling water
    1/4 c  Brandy or cognac
 
  Place steak in waxed paper.Sprinkle with 1/3 tsp. cracked
  peppercorns;rub over meat and press in with heel of hand.Turn steak
  over,add another 1/3 tsp. of pepper.Repeat with remaining steaks.In
  electric skillet,melt 2 tbsp. butter with heat control set at 350
  degrees.Cook steaks about 2 to 6 minutes on each side, depending on
  doneness.Transfer steaks to a serving plate.Keep warm in a 200 degree
  oven.In electric skillet,cook shallots in remaining 2 tbsp. butter
  with heat control set at 350 degrees until tender,about 1 minute.Add
  bouillon cube to 3/4 cup boiling water and dissolve.Add bouillon
  liquid to skillet,boil rapidly for 1 minute,while stirring to scrape
  up browned bits from pan.Add steaks to pan.Carefully,heat brandy or
  cognac in a ladle over direct heat. Ignite.Carefully,pour over
  steaks.When flame dies,serve.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepper Steak
 Categories: Asian, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Top round steak
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
    3/4 ts Salt
      3 md Green peppers, cut in
           1" pieces
      3 md Red peppers, cut in 1"
           Pieces
  1 1/2 c  Sliced celery
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 cl Garlic,minced
  1 1/2 c  Beef broth
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/3 c  Water
      1 tb Soy sauce
           Hot cooked rice, optional
 
  Slice steak,diagonally,into very thin slices,then cut slices into 2"
  pieces.In electric skillet,heat oil with heat control set at 350
  degrees.Brown meat in hot oil about 2 to 3 minutes.Sprinkle with
  salt.Add red and green pepper,celery,onion,garlic and cook 2 minutes.
  Add beef broth.Turn heat control to 250 degrees.Cover and cook until
  vegetables are tender crisp,about 10 to 12 minutes.Dissolve together
  cornstarch,water and soy sauce until smooth.Add to meat mixture.Cook
  and stir until thickened,about 3 to 4 minutes.Serve over rice,if
  desired.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sirloin Steak with Sauces
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter or margarine
  1 1/2 lb Boneless sirloin steak,1"
           Thick
           Mushroom onion sauce, Onion
           Butter sauce, or Sour cream
           Sauce
 
  Preheat Sizzling Skillet in microwave oven at high for about 6 1/2
  minutes.Place butter on preheated skillet to melt.Spread evenly across
  surface.Place steak on skillet.Microwave at high for 4 minutes turn
  steak over.Microwave until medium-rare doneness,3 to 4 minutes
  longer.Serve with one of the sauces.Serves 4 to 5.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kosher Cabbage Rolls
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Head cabbage

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 lb Ground beef
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Rice
      6 tb Ketchup
           Salt and pepper

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1    #2 1/2  can tomatoes
      1 cn Tomato sauce
           Juice of 1 lemon
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      2 lg Onions,sliced
           Salt and pepper
 
  Combine filling ingredients.To prepare cabbage,cut larger outer
  leaves from cabbage.Trim thick center vein,if necessary.Immerse
  leaves in boiling water.Steam for 2 to 3 minutes.Remove carefully.
  Divide filling mixture equally on 16 leaves.Fold leaves loosely
  around meat mixture allowing for expansion. Place rolls and sauce
  ingredients in large roaster or Dutch oven. Bake in 350 degree oven
  for about 3 hours.Cover for the first hour, then bake uncovered.Baste
  frequently.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot and Spicy Beef Back Ribs
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      7 lb Beef back ribs
    3/4 c  Water,divided
      1 c  Ketchup
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/2 ts Crushed red pepper
 
  Place each slab of ribs,meat side down,in center of double thick
  rectangle of heavy aluminum foil.Sprinkle 2 tbsp. water over rib
  bones.To form packets,bring 2 opposite sides of foil together over
  top of ribs.Fold edges over 3 to 4 times,pressing crease in tightly
  each time.(Allow some air space.)Flatten foil at 1 end,crease to form
  triangle and fold over several times toward package,pressing tightly
  to seal.Repeat procedure on other end. Place packets on grid directly
  over low to medium coals.Place cover on cooker;cook 1 1/2
  hours,turning packets every 1/2 hour.Meanwhile, combine
  ketchup,remaining 1/2 cup water,lemon juice,cinnamon,hot pepper sauce
  and crushed red pepper in small saucepan.Bring to boil. Reduce heat
  and cook slowly 10 to 12 minutes.Remove ribs from foil packets.Place
  on grid over medium coals;broil 30 to 40 minutes, turning and
  brushing with sauce,occasionally.Serve remaining sauce with
  ribs.Makes 8 to 10 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Style Beef Filets
 Categories: Asian, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    4 oz. beef filets
      1 ts Seasoned salt
      4 ts Soy sauce
      4 ts Vegetable oil
      1 c  Chopped peanuts
      8    Water chestnuts, coarsely
           Grated
      1 md Clove garlic,minced
    1/4 ts Lemon and pepper seasoning
    1/2 c  Snipped parsley

MMMMM---------------------AUGUST MOON SAUCE--------------------------
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
  2 1/2 tb Sugar
    3/4 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Small orange rind,slivered

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Remaining chopped peanuts
           Savoy or leaf lettuce
           Green onion flowers
 
  Prick filets with fork.Mix salt,soy sauce and vegetable oil.Brush over
  filets;let set 30 minutes.Reserving 2 tbsp. for garnish,blend together
  peanuts with chestnuts,garlic and lemon and pepper seasoning. Spread
  mixture on top and sides of filets.Pat parsley on tops and sides.Place
  filets in greased 9 x 12 x 2" baking pan.Bake @ 400 degrees 18 to 20
  minutes or until desired doneness.
  
  Sauce:  In small saucepan,combine cornstarch,ginger,sugar,orange
  juice and orange rind slivers.Cook over low heat,stirring
  constantly,for 5 minutes or until thickened.Remove filets to
  platter.Spoon 2 tbsp. sauce over each filet.Serve remaining sauce in
  small pitcher.Sprinkle remaining peanuts over tops.Surround with
  lettuce and green onion flowers.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Festive Citrus Sirloin Strips
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef top sirloin steak,1"
           Thick
      5 md Mushrooms,thinly sliced
      1    Red onion,sliced and
           Separated into rings
      1 pk Romaine lettuce leaves,torn

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice (about 2
           Lemons)
    1/2 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 cl Garlic,minced
      1 tb Honey
      3 tb Light olive oil
    1/4 ts Ground white pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Thyme

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1    Artichoke, orange and lemon
           Slices
 
  Trim excess fat from beef. In shallow  dish,combine marinade
  ingredients,using 2 of the tbsp. of oil.Reserve 1/4 cup marinade to
  toss with vegetables.Add beef,turning once to coat.Cover;marinate in
  refrigerator 1 hour.Refrigerate reserved marinade.Remove beef from
  marinade.Place in shallow baking pan.Pour any leftover marinade onto
  beef.Bake @ 450 degrees 10 to 15 minutes or until desired degree of
  doneness. Meanwhile,saute onion and mushrooms in remaining tbsp. oil
  2 to 3 minutes.In small saucepan,heat reserved marinade 2 to 3
  minutes until warmed.Pour in large bowl;toss in torn lettuce,sauteed
  onions and mushrooms.Arrange serving platter with lettuce
  leaves.Carve steak diagonally into thin slices;fan onto lettuce
  leaves.Place onion rings and mushrooms along and over beef
  slices.Pour any remaining marinade ( from vegetable toss) over beef.
  Place artichoke on 1 side of platter with lemon and orange slices
  around it,forming a flower effect.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: All At Once Spaghetti
 Categories: Beef, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1 lg Onion,chopped
    1/2 lb Ground beef
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
      2 cn Hunt's Tomato Sauce
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/4 lb Uncooked spaghetti
           (1/2 - 8 oz. pkg.)
           Grated cheese
 
  Heat oil in saucepan or skillet.Add onion;cook until soft.Crumble in
  the beef.Stir and fry until meat loses red color.Sprinkle with salt
  and pepper.Pour in tomato sauce and water;bring to boil.Break
  spaghetti;sprinkle in a little at a time,stirring into sauce and
  keeping it separated.Cover tightly.Simmer 20 to 30 minutes.Stir
  toward end of cooking time.Serve with cheese.Makes 3 to 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Flannel Hash (Homemade Corned Beef Hash)
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Potatoes (about 2 medium
           Sized)
      3 tb Water
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Bacon drippings
      1 cn (12 oz) corned beef OR
           2 - cups cooked corned beef
      1 cn (8 oz) diced beets, drained
           OR 1 cup cooked diced beets
    1/4 c  Milk
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Peel and dice potatoes into 1/2" cubes.Place in a 4 cup glass
  measure;add water.Cover with plastic wrap,venting spout area.
  Microwave on high 6 to 7 minutes.Set aside. Place onion and bacon
  drippings in a 2 qt. casserole.Cover with lid or plastic wrap and
  microwave on high 2 to 3 minutes or until onion is tender.Stir in
  potatoes,corned beef,beets,milk and parsley.Add salt and pepper to
  taste.Microwave on high 3 minutes or to desired temperature.If
  desired,mixture may be browned in a skillet on conventional range top
  in lieu of final reheating in microwave.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mini Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Saltine crackers
      1 c  Cubed raw beef
      2    1" pieces onion
      2    Sprigs parsley
      1    Egg
      1 tb Ketchup
      2    Dashes pepper
      2 tb Ketchup
 
  Place crackers in food processor bowl and cover unit.With hand on
  cover process until finely crumbled.Add 1/2 cup meat,cover and
  process 3 to 4 fast pulses.Remove cover and add remaining meat,onion
  and parsley;cover and process 4 to 6 fast pulses.Remove cover and add
  egg, 1 tbsp. ketchup and pepper.Cover and process 2 fast pulses.Pat
  into 3" x 1 1/4" mini loaf pan.Bake in preheated 350 degree oven for
  30 minutes.Add 2 tbsp. ketchup to top and continue to bake an
  additional 20 minutes.Makes 1 to 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Steak
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Thick flank steak or
           London broil (about 1 1/2
           Pounds)
    2/3 c  Dry red wine
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/8 ts Oregano,crumbled
    1/8 ts Marjoram,crumbled
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Mix together the wine,soy sauce and seasonings.Place steak in a long
  glass baking dish and pour marinade over meat.Cover and chill at
  least 12 to 18 hours,turning meat once or twice.Preheat
  broiler.Remove steak from marinade.Pat dry and broil 4" from heat for
  about 5 minutes on each side.To serve,cut thin slices diagonally
  across grain.Serve with rice.Yield:6 servings Calories:270 per
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New England Cranberry Pot Roast
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb All purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Onion salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 lb Pot roast
      2 tb Shortening
      4    Whole cloves
      1    2" stick cinnamon
      1 cn (16 oz) whole cranberry
           Sauce
      1 tb Vinegar
 
  Combine first 4 ingredients;rub into roast,using all flour mixture.In
  Dutch oven,slowly brown meat on all sides in hot shortening.Remove
  from heat;add cloves,cinnamon and 1/2 cup water.Cover tightly and
  simmer about 2 1/2 hours,or until tender,adding water if
  necessary.Spoon off fat.Mix cranberry sauce,vinegar and 2 tbsp.
  water;add to meat.Cover and cook 10 to 15 minutes more.Remove
  cinnamon;spoon off fat.(When serving.) Pass pan juices with
  meat.Yields 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Charcoaled Chuck Roast
 Categories: Beef, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    3 to 3 1/2 lb. boneless
           Chuck roast
      2 ts Seasoned meat tenderizer
      1 c  Red wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Instant minced onion
      2 tb Dried thyme leaves
      1    Bay leaf, crushed
      1 ts Medium-grind black pepper
 
  Sprinkle one side of roast with 1 tsp. meat tenderizer.Pierce deeply
  with a fork and turn over.Repeat with other side of roast. Let stand
  30 minutes. In a 2 qt. glass baking dish,combine vinegar,oil,lemon
  juice, onion,thyme and bay leaf.Add roast and turn to coat.Cover with
  plastic wrap and refrigerate at least six hours or overnight, turning
  roast and spooning marinade over it periodically. Light charcoal in
  outdoor grill.Discard marinade and scrape onion and herbs off meat to
  prevent them from burning when grilled.Sprinkle meat with pepper and
  place in same dish.Cover again and microwave on high 5 minutes.Turn
  roast over and microwave on high 5 minutes more.Immediately,grill
  over hot coals for 30 to 30 minutes for medium doneness.Slice meat
  diagonally,serving juices with meat.Makes 8 to 10 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Stack
 Categories: Beef, Chili
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 tb Chili powder
      2 tb Shortening
      1 ts Salt
      1    Onion, chopped fine
           Dash of pepper
      1 cl Garlic, chopped fine
      1    #2 1/2 can tomatoes
      1    Green bell pepper,chopped
    1/2 c  Grated sharp Cheddar cheese
      2 tb Flour
 
  Add shortening to skillet.Heat to medium high.When shortening is
  browned,add meat and cook until crumbly.Next,blend flour through the
  mixture.Add remaining ingredients,except cheese. Lower heat to
  simmer.Cook 30 minutes.Just before serving,stir in cheese.Delicious
  served on toast.Serves 4 to 5.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Skillet Meal
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Round steak
      4 md Size potatoes, peeled and
           Cut into quarters
    1/3 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 lg Onion, cut in slices
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      3 tb Shortening
 
  Cut meat into bite size pieces for serving.Season with salt, dip in
  flour.Brown in shortening in skillet.Place vegetables over top of
  meat,then add mushroom soup.Cover.Keep mixture on medium high until
  steam escapes freely.Turn to simmer and cook 50 minutes longer.Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New England Boiled Dinner
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Corned beef
      6    Carrots, cut in half,
           Lengthwise
      6    Potatoes, cut in half,
           Lengthwise
      1 md Size head of cabbage
      3 c  Water
      6    Turnips, cut in quarters
 
  Place corned beef and water in Crock Pot Cooker.Cover.Set on high.When
  steaming vigorously,set to medium and continue cooking 2 1/2 hours.
  Remove meat from cooker.Put potatoes, turnips,carrots and cabbage in
  Cooker.Place meat on top of vegetables.Cover and when mixture is
  steaming briskly,set to medium.Cook for 45 minutes. Ham may be used
  in place of corned beef,if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breaded Veal Cutlets
 Categories: Veal
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Veal steak
      4 tb Drippings
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 c  Water
           Bread crumbs
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
           Salt and pepper
 
  Dip veal in egg and crumbs.Season.Brown in drippings,cooking on
  medium high to brown meat.Place in casserole or baking dish. To
  drippings left in skillet.add water and Worcestershire sauce. Pour
  over veal.Cover and bake 1 1/2 hours at 350 degrees.Serves 4 to 5.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Beef and Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Ground chuck
      4 tb Shortening
    1/2 ts Sage
      3 tb All-purpose flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 c  Unstrained tomatoes
     10    Onion, sliced, fried
           Buttered crumbs
 
  Mold ground chuck into medium size balls and place in bottom of 2
  quart casserole.Season with sage,salt and pepper.Over this, place
  layer of fried onions.Melt shortening,add flour;mix well. To this,add
  tomatoes.Cook until thickened.Pour over onions. Cover with buttered
  crumbs.bake,uncovered,in 375 degree oven for 1 1/2 hours.Serves 5 to
  6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak and Peppers
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Beef tenderloin steaks, cut
           1" thick (about 4 oz. each)
      1 tb Light sesame oil,divided
      3 ts Peppercorns,coarsely crushed
      1 tb Butter
      2 md Green bell peppers, cut into
           1/4" thick julienne strips
      1    Medium red and yellow bell
           Pepper, cut into 1/4"
           Thick julienne strips
      6    Green onions, cut into 1/2"
           Pieces
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
    1/4 c  Apple juice
    1/4 c  Tomato juice
      6    Drops hot pepper sauce
 
  Press beef tenderloin steaks with palm of hand,flattening to 3/4"
  thickness.Brush both sides of steaks with 1 tsp. oil; press pepper
  into both sides.Place remaining oil and butter in 11 3/4 x 7 1/2"
  microwave safe baking dish;microwave on high 1 minute or until butter
  is melted.Add peppers and green onions, stirring to coat with oil
  mixture.Microwave on high 4 minutes or until peppers are crisp
  tender,stirring once;reserve.Combine soy sauce and cornstarch in 4
  cup microwave safe glass measure; stir in balsamic vinegar,apple
  juice,tomato juice and hot pepper sauce.Microwave on high 2 minutes
  or until mixture boils;stir. Continue cooking on high 1 to 2 minutes
  or until sauce is thickened;stirring once.Preheat browning dish on
  high 6 to 8 minutes.Meanwhile,stir cooked sauce into reserved peppers
  set aside.Press steaks down firmly on browning dish.Microwave,
  uncovered,on high 2 minutes.Turn steaks and continue cooking on high
  1 to 2 minutes longer or until desired doneness.If necessary,reheat
  pepper mixture on high 1 to 2 minutes or until hot.Remove peppers to
  serving platter with slotted spoon;top with steaks.Serve steaks and
  peppers with remaining sauce. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yorkshire Pudding with Roast Beef
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
      1    5 to 7 lb. rump roast
 
   Preheat oven to 300 degrees.Cook rump roast in 9 x 9" pan for 25 to
  30 minutes or until internal temperature in meat is 150 to 170
  degrees. Mix and sift flour and salt.Add milk to make a smooth
  paste.Then add eggs,beat 2 minutes in electric mixer. Cover bottom of
  9 x 9" pan about 1/4" with drippings from roast. Pour mixture 1/2"
  deep on drippings in pan.Bake 20 to 30 minutes. Delicious when served.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lighthouse Casserole
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 18 servings
 
      1 lb Small shell macaroni
      2 lb Ground beef
      1 lg Onion,chopped
      1 cn (16 oz) kidney beans
      1 cn (16 oz) cream style corn
      1 cn (16 oz) tomato sauce
      1    10 oz. jar chili sauce
      1 cn (8 oz) mushroom pieces
      1 cn (3 oz) sliced ripe olives,
           Drained
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese,
           Divided
 
  Cook macaroni on the conventional range.Meanwhile,crumble ground beef
  into a dishwasher safe plastic colander suspended over a 3 quart
  casserole.Top with chopped onion.Stirring midway through
  cooking,microwave on high 8 to 10 minutes or until meat is no longer
  pink. Discard grease and transfer meat to casserole.Stir in beans,
  corn,tomato sauce,chili sauce,mushrooms and olives.Drain macaroni and
  stir meat mixture into it.Divide macaroni mixture into desired size
  casseroles for serving or freezing.Makes 3 - 2 quart casseroles ( 6
  servings each).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Straw Mushroom Medley
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cl Garlic minced
      3 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Dry sherry
      7 oz Jar whole straw mushrooms,
           Drained
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Sliced almonds
      1 lb Sirloin steak, cut into 2"
           Long paper thin strips
      2 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 cn (8 oz) sliced water
           Chestnuts, drained
      3 c  Fresh broccoli florets, cut
           In 1" pieces
      1 sm Onion, cut into slivers
      1    Red bell pepper, cut into
           Strips
           Hot cooked rice, if desired
 
  In shallow bowl,combine garlic,soy sauce,sherry and sugar; blend
  well.Add meat strips;stir to coat well.Let stand 30
  minutes;drain,reserving marinade. In large skillet,heat oil.Add meat
  strips;cook over high heat 2 to 3 minutes or until meat is no longer
  pink.Stir in broccoli and onion;cook until crisp tender.Stir in
  reserved marinade;add remaining ingredients.Cook until mixture
  becomes slightly thickened.Serve over cooked rice,if desired.Makes 4
  to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Celery Sukiyaki
 Categories: Japanese, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Flank steak
      3 tb Salad oil
      3 c  Celery,sliced diagonally
      2 sm Onions, sliced, separated
           Into rings
      1    Beef bouillon cube
    3/4 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Water chestnuts,sliced
      5 tb Soy sauce
  1 1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
 
  Cut steak into thin diagonal slices.(For easier slicing, partially
  freeze first.)In large skillet,heat 2 tbsp. oil. Add steak strips,a
  few at a time.Brown on both sides.Remove and set aside.Add celery and
  onion to skillet.Saute for 3 minutes in 1 tbsp. oil.Dissolve bouillon
  cube in water.Add to skillet along with water chestnuts,soy
  sauce,ginger and black pepper.Stir well.Add browned steak;spoon juice
  over steak.Cover and simmer 10 minutes or until steak and vegetables
  are fork tender.Serve over rice.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cobble Corn Chili Tacos
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Taco shells
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 pk Chili seasoning mix
      1 cn (17 oz) whole kernel
           Sweet corn
      1 cn (14 1/2 oz) stewed tomatoes
      1 cn (8 oz) tomato sauce
      2 tb Instant minced onion
      1 c  Sliced celery
           Shredded Cheddar cheese
           Shredded lettuce
 
  Arrange taco shells in a shallow baking pan.Place in very slow oven
  (250 degrees) to crisp while making filling. Heat large
  skillet;crumble meat in and cook until browned, stirring
  constantly.Tilt skillet and spoon off excess fat. Stir in chili
  seasoning mix.Add corn,tomatoes,tomato sauce, onion and celery.Heat
  to boiling. Turn heat to low and cook,uncovered,for 15
  minutes,stirring occasionally. Spoon into taco shells.Top with cheese
  and serve on crisp lettuce.Or the filling may be served like chili
  con carne, if you don't like taco shells.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Flank Steak with Mock Tamales
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef flank steak
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/3 c  Extra virgin olive oil
      6 tb Minced jalapeno peppers
      1 tb Minced fresh cilantro
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Fresh ground black pepper
      1    Linda's Salsa Sauce
      1    Mock tamales
           Fresh lemon slices
           Jalapeno peppers
           Cilantro sprigs

MMMMM--------------------LINDA'S SALSA SAUCE-------------------------
      2    Tomatoes, peeled
      3 lg Cloves garlic, peeled
      2    Plum tomatoes finely
           Chopped
      3    Plum tomatoes, coarsely
           Chopped
      3    Jalapeno peppers, thin
           Sliced
    1/4 c  Coarsely chopped fresh
           Cilantro
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM------------------------MOCK TAMALES-----------------------------
      1 c  ( 4 oz.) grated sharp
           Cheddar cheese
      1 c  Muenster cheese
      2 tb Minced green onion with
           Tops
      6    7" flour tortillas
      6    8 by 12" pieces of foil
 
  Place beef flank steak in utility dish.Combine lemon juice,olive
  oil,jalapeno peppers,cilantro,salt and pepper; pour over
  steak,turning to coat.Cover and refrigerate 6 to 8 hours or
  overnight.Prepare Linda's Salsa Sauce and Mock tamales.Remove steak
  from marinade and place on grid over medium coals;reserve
  marinade.Place mock tamales around edge of grill.Grill steak 12 to 15
  minutes to desired doneness, turning once and
  basting,occasionally,with marinade. Turn tamales halfway through
  cooking time.Place steak and tamales on serving platter.Spoon 1/4 cup
  Linda's Salsa Sauce over tamales.Garnish platter with lemon
  slices,jalapeno peppers and cilantro sprigs.Carve steak across the
  grain into thin slices.Serve with remaining Salsa Sauce.Serves 6.
  
  Linda's Salsa Sauce: Process 2 tomatoes,hull and tough skin removed
  and 3 large cloves garlic,peeled,in food processor or blender until
  pulverized.Combine tomato mixture,2 plum tomatoes finely chopped;3
  plum tomatoes,coarsely chopped,3 jalapeno peppers,thin sliced;1/4 cup
  coarsely chopped fresh cilantro; 1 tbsp. fresh lemon juice;and 1 tsp.
  freshly ground black pepper. Refrigerate,covered,1 hour or overnight
  to blend flavors.Makes 2 cups.
  
  Mock Tamales: Combine 1 cup ( 4 oz.) EACH: grated sharp Cheddar
  cheese and Muenster cheese and 2 tbsp. minced green onion with
  tops.Divide mixture evenly and put in center of each of 6 - 7" flour
  tortillas.Fold bottom side of tortilla over filling.Fold two sides
  over filling;then fold top side over filling,envelope fashion.Wrap
  each tortilla in 8 by 12" piece of foil,twisting each end.Makes 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chiang Mai Steaks
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------COCONUT MILK-----------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Packed, flaked coconut

MMMMM---------------------------STEAKS--------------------------------
      4    Beef tenderloins, cut 1"
           Thick (approx. 4 oz. each)
      1    Coconut Milk
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Butter
    1/2 ts Vegetable oil
      2 tb Creamy peanut butter
      2 ts Curry powder
           Kiwi fruit, peeled and
           Sliced, if desired
           Flaked coconut
           Parsley sprigs
 
  Prepare coconut milk.Combine flour and salt;dust beef tenderloin
  steaks.Shake off excess flour and reserve.heat butter and oil in large
  heavy frying pan over medium heat until hot.Add steaks;pan fry 6 to 8
  minutes or to desired degree of doneness, turning once.Remove
  steaks,keep warm.Reduce heat to medium low. Add reserved flour to pan
  and cook just until brown,stirring constantly.Stir in peanut butter
  and curry powder until smooth. Gradually,add coconut milk and cook
  until sauce comes to a boil and thickens,stirring constantly.Return
  steaks to pan and turn to coat with sauce. Place steaks on heated
  platter.Garnish with Kiwi and parsley sprigs.Sprinkle with
  coconut.Serve steaks with sauce.Makes 4 servings. COCONUT MILK: Bring
  1 1/2 cups water to a boil in small saucepan Add 1 cup packed,flaked
  coconut and simmer,uncovered,5 minutes. Process in blender at high
  speed for 1 to 2 minutes or until thoroughly blended.Strain coconut
  milk,discarding coconut.Makes about 1 1/4 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Hot Beef Kabobs with Yogurt Sauce
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Boneless beef sirloin steak
           Cut 1 1/4" thick (about 2
           Lbs.)
    1/4 c  Packed brown sugar
      4 ts Cider vinegar
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Hot pepper sauce
      1    8 oz. carton plain low fat
           Yogurt
    1/3 c  Minced green onions and
           Tops
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
     10 oz Fresh spinach
           Red bell pepper slices
           Paprika
 
  Trim fat from boneless beef sirloin steak;cut steak into 1 1/2 inch
  pieces.Mix brown sugar,vinegar,oil,chili powder,salt and hot pepper
  sauce in medium bowl.Add beef pieces;toss to coat.Let stand 15
  minutes.Meanwhile,stir together yogurt,green onions and garlic
  salt;set aside.Wash spinach;discard stems and pat dry. Coarsely chop
  spinach;set aside.Thread beef pieces on 6 to 8 - 9 inch skewers.Place
  beef on grill over medium coals.Grill beef 8 to 10 minutes,to desired
  doneness,turning frequently. To serve,place spinach around edge of
  large serving platter leaving center open for small serving
  bowl.Remove beef from skewers and arrange over spinach.garnish beef
  with peppers.Put yogurt sauce in serving bowl;sprinkle with
  paprika.Place bowl in center of platter.Serves 6 to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Top of the Stove
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     16 oz Frozen egg noodles
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 cn Cambell's cream of mushroom
           Soup
      1 cn Campbell's Cheddar cheese
           Soup
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Italian seasoning
 
  Cook noodles in boiling water for 20 minutes or until tender. Drain
  and keep warm.While noodles cook,brown ground beef and onions.Drain
  off excess fat.Combine ground beef mixture,soups, sour cream and
  Italian seasoning in large saucepan.Simmer for 10 minutes,stirring
  frequently,(do not boil).Serve over warm noodles.Serves 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Style Meat Loaf
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      6 oz Italian sausage or spicy
           Bulk sausage
      1 cn (14 1/2 oz) Italian style
           Stewed tomatoes
      1 c  Fresh bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped green bell pepper
      1    Egg, beaten
 
  In a large bowl, combine all ingredients;mix well.Place in a 4 1/2 x
  8" loaf pan.Bake @ 350 degrees for 1 hour;drain.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Crabs
 Categories: Fish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Medium bellpeppers
      2    Large onions
      2 c  Bread crumbs
      1 tb Flour
      1 pn Parsley
      2    Stalks celery
      1    Stick butter
    1/2 lb Claw crab meat
      1 pn Green onions
      3    Eggs
 
  Saute' vegetables until wilted,season to taste with salt and red
  pepper. Mix bread crumbs,flour,eggs,green onions,and parsley. Combine
  with other ingredients and fill crab shells. Dip in a batter of egg
  and milk,then in flour and finally in bread crumbs. Fry until golden
  brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Saute a la Creole
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      3 lb Broiler-Fryer Chicken
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Cooking oil
      1 c  Green pepper chopped
      1    Clove garlic, Minced
      2 tb Chicken drippings
    3/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 c  Onion chopped
      2 c  Sieved tomatoes
    1/4 ts Basil
 
  Cut chicken into serving size pieces, put flour,salt and pepper into a
  shaker bag and evenly coat chicken. Heat oil in a skillet over medium
  heat and brown the chicken evenly. When chicken is browned remove and
  set it aside keeping it warm. Pour off 2 tablespoons of chicken
  drippings. Add drippings onions and peppers to a large skillet and
  cook over low heat until onion is tender. Add tomatoes, garlic and
  basil. Stir in chicken and cover. Simmer 30 to 40 minutes or until
  chicken is tender. Stir sauce occasionally.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Steaks
 Categories: Fish, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Salmon steaks
    1/4 c  Oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 tb Ginger
 
  Combine all ingredients and pour over steaks.  Marinate 30 minutes;
  turn steaks; marinate another 30 minutes.  Barbecue 10 minutes; turn
  steaks and brush with marinade; cook another 10 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Cornish Hens
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Game
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Cornish game hens
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Rosemary
      2    Cloves garlic, pressed
 
  Rub hens with butter.  Combine other ingredients and use to baste
  hens. Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour, basting with lemon mixture
  every 10 minutes. If serving with rice, spoon remaining lemon mixture
  over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Roast Beef
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Beef for roasting (eye
           Round, top sirloin or
           Sirloin tip)
      2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 c  Dijon mustard
      2 cl Garlic,minced
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Fresh onion, sliced
 
  Make a layer of sliced onion on the bottom of oven-proof pot.Rub the
  dry mustard over entire surface of meat.Mix up the rest of the
  ingredients in big measuring cup and spread it over the roast.Now,
  place the roast atop the onion layer in pot.Let stand several hours.
  When you are ready to cook,preheat oven to hottest (450 or 500
  degrees) and roast 15 minutes. Then turn back oven to 350 degrees and
  roast 45 minutes or longer, depending on desired doneness.Use your
  meat thermometer to determine time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Italian Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Lean ground beef
      1 lb Italian sausage
  1 1/2 c  Cracker crumbs
      2    Eggs, beaten
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Bell pepper, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Oregano
      1 cl Garlic,minced
      1 c  Pizza sauce

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 lb Boiled ham,sliced thin
      8 oz Grated Mozzarella cheese
      1 cn (8 oz) mushrooms,drained
 
  Mix first eleven ingredients together.Reserve 1/4 cup pizza sauce. On
  a large sheet of wax paper,pat meat into a 10 x 13" rectangle.
  Arrange ham on top of meat mixture,leaving a small margin.Spread
  mushrooms over ham.Sprinkle cheese over all.Reserve small amount of
  cheese.Start at 10" size and roll meat like a jelly roll.Use wax
  paper to lift.When rolled tightly,seal edges.Place seam side down in
  a 9 x 13" pan.Brush with reserved pizza sauce.Bake 1 1/4 hours @ 375
  degrees,10 minutes.Before done,sprinkle reserved cheese over and
  finish baking.Serves 10 to 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hearty Burgundy Meatballs
 Categories: Meatballs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 lg Egg
      1 c  Fresh bread crumbs,
           About 2 slices bread
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 md Carrots,peeled and sliced,
           About 1 cup
      2 c  Quartered medium-size fresh
           Mushrooms, about 8 oz.
      8 oz Pearl onions, peeled and
           Halved, about 1 1/2 cups
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Red burgundy or other dry
           Red wine
      1    Envelope instant beef
           Bouillon
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      1    12" loaf French bread
           Sliced
 
  In large bowl,combine beef,egg,bread crumbs,salt and pepper; using
  hands or wooden spoon,blend well.Shape mixture into 1 1/4" balls.In
  12" skillet over medium-high heat,heat oil;add meatballs; cook about
  12 minutes,turning frequently until well browned on all sides.Using
  slotted spoon,remove meatballs to plate.To drippings in skillet,add
  carrots,mushrooms and onions;cook,still over medium- high heat,about
  5 minutes,stirring frequently until crisp-tender. Stir in flour to
  coat vegetables well;return meatballs to skillet, along with
  wine,bouillon,2 tbsp. parsley and 1 cup water.Increase heat to
  high;bring to boil.Reduce heat to low;simmer,covered,10 minutes until
  meatballs are cooked through.To serve: Spoon meatballs and vegetables
  in serving bowl;sprinkle with remaining tablespoon parsley. Serve
  accompanied by French bread.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-Sour Meatballs Oriental
 Categories: Meatballs, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn (20 oz) pineapple chunks
           Packed in juice
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 lg Egg
      1 c  Fresh bread crumbs, about
           2 slices bread
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 md Scallions, cut into 1"
           Pieces,about 3/4 cups
      1 cl Garlic, crushed
      2 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Cider vinegar
      1 tb Light brown sugar, firmly
           Packed
    1/4 ts Ground red cayenne pepper
      4 oz Fresh Chinese pea pods OR
      6 oz Frozen pea pods, thawed
 
  Drain pineapple well,reserving 3/4 cup juice;set aside.In a large
  bowl,combine beef,egg,bread crumbs,salt and ginger;using hands or
  wooden spoon,blend well.Shape mixture into 1 1/4" balls.In 12"
  skillet over medium-high heat,heat oil;add meatballs;cook about 12
  minutes, turning frequently until well browned on all sides.Using
  slotted spoon, remove to plate.To drippings in skillet,add scallions
  and garlic;cook, still over medium-high heat,about 5 minutes,stirring
  frequently until tender-crisp.In small bowl,stir reserved pineapple
  juice into cornstarch until blended and smooth;add to skillet along
  with vinegar,sugar and ground red pepper.Increase heat to high;bring
  to a boil,stirring.Boil 1 minute.Return meatballs to skillet along
  with pineapple chunks and pea pods;cook 3 to 5 minutes longer until
  heated through and pea pods are crisp-tender.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Thai Meatballs with Crispy Noodles
 Categories: Thai, Meatballs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Vegetable oil
      1 lb Ground pork
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Dry-roasted peanuts,
           Finely chopped
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro or
           Parsley
    3/4 ts Salt
  3 3/4 oz Pkg. cellophane noodles
           (see note)
    1/2 c  Chunk-style peanut butter
      1 tb Grated lemon peel
    1/4 ts Ground red cayenne pepper
      1 sm Cucumber,sliced
      1 sm Carrot, peeled and thinly
           Sliced or cut into thin
           Sticks
           Fresh cilantro or parsley
           Sprigs, optional
 
  Pour oil into 3 qt. saucepan to depth of 1";heat over medium-high
  heat to 375 degrees.Meanwhile,in large bowl,combine pork,egg,ground
  peanuts,chopped cilantro and salt.Using hands or wooden spoon,blend
  well.Shape mixture into 1" balls.In 12" skillet over medium-high
  heat, heat 2 tbsp. oil;add meatballs.Cook about 12 minutes,turning
  frequently until well browned on all sides.Add 1 cup water,stirring
  to loosen brown bits from bottom of skillet;bring to boil.Reduce heat
  to low. Simmer,covered,5 to 10 minutes until meatballs are cooked
  through. Meanwhile,add noodles,a small amount at a time,to hot oil in
  saucepan; cook each batch about 20 seconds until puffed and double in
  size.Using a slotted spoon,remove noodles to paper towel to
  drain.When meatballs are cooked,stir in peanut butter,grated lemon
  peel and ground red pepper;cook about 1 minute longer until heated
  through.Arrange fried noodles on serving platter.Spoon meatballs over
  noodles;arrange cucumbers and carrots decoratively around
  edge.Garnish with cilantro sprigs,if desired.Makes 4 servings.
  
  Note:Cellophane noodles are sometimes called bean thread noodles and
  can be found in the Oriental sections of supermarkets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tex-Mex Chili Meatballs with Zesty Tomato Salsa
 Categories: Meatballs, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 sm Onion,diced,about 1/2 cup
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 lg Egg
      1 cn (4 oz) mild green chilies,
           Drained and chopped
  1 3/4 c  Fresh bread crumbs, about 4
           Slices bread
    1/3 c  Shredded Monterey Jack
           Cheese
    1/3 c  Shredded mild Cheddar
           Cheese
    3/4 ts Salt
      6    Corn tortillas, half 10 oz.
           Pkg., cut into wedges
      1    Zesty Tomato Salsa
           Lettuce leaves, optional
           Tomato wedges, optional

MMMMM---------------------ZESTY TOMATO SALSA--------------------------
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Red pepper, cored, seeded
           And diced (about 2 cups)
      1    Green bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and diced (about 2
           Cups)
      1 md Onion, diced (about 3/4 cup)
      1 lg Clove garlic,crushed
      2 lg Ripe tomatoes, diced (about
           2 cups)
    1/2 ts Hot red pepper sauce
 
  Heat the oven to 400 degrees.In 12" skillet,over medium high heat,
  heat 1 tbsp.  vegetable oil;add onion and chili powder;cook about 10
  minutes,stirring frequently,until onion is tender and coated with
  chili powder.Remove onion to large bowl;wipe skillet clean.To bowl
  with onion,add beef,egg,chilies,bread crumbs,1 tbsp. of each of
  cheeses and salt;using hands or wooden spoon,blend well.Shape mixture
  into 1 1/4" balls.In skillet over medium-high heat,heat remaining 2
  tbsp. oil;add meat mixture;cook 15 minutes,turning frequently,until
  well browned on all sides and cooked through.Meanwhile,place tortilla
  chips in single layer on jelly-roll pan;bake 10 minutes until crisp
  and golden.Prepare Zesty Tomato Salsa.To serve:Spoon meatballs into
  center of large serving platter;sprinkle with remaining Monterey Jack
  and Cheddar cheese.Arrange tomato wedges and lettuce around meatballs
  if desired.Serve with tortilla chips and salsa.Makes 4 servings.
  ZESTY TOMATO SALSA: In a 2 qt. saucepan over medium high heat,heat 1
  tbsp.vegetable oil; add 1 each red and green bell pepper,cored,seeded
  and diced (about 2 cups),1 medium size onion,diced (about 3/4 cup)
  and 1 large clove garlic,crushed. Cook about 10 minutes,stirring
  frequently,until tender.Stir in 2 large fresh,ripe tomatoes,diced
  (about 2 cups) and 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. hot red pepper sauce;cook 1 minute
  longer until heated through. Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Venison Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Water
      3 c  Ketchup
      1 tb White vinegar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 c  100% Wisconsin maple syrup
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      2 md Onions,diced
      2 tb Chili powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 lb Venison ribs with some loin
           Meat attached
           Freshly ground black pepper
           To taste
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees.In large bowl,combine all ingredients
  except ribs and pepper.Blend well.Sprinkle ribs with pepper and
  additional salt.Place in 5 qt. roasting pan in double layer.Roast 1
  hour.Pour sauce over ribs.Increase heat to 350 degrees and bake until
  ribs just begin to char on top,about 1 1/2 hours.Turn ribs over cover
  pan and bake about 30 minutes longer,until ribs are tender and sauce
  is thick. To serve,place ribs on serving platter.Pour sauce over
  ribs.Makes about 6 servings.
  
  Note: If venison is a little gamey tasting,increase vinegar in sauce
  to 3 tbsp..Taste sauce after mixing and add additional brown sugar to
  taste,about 1/2 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Hot Dish
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Celery,diced
    1/2 c  American cheese,diced
    1/4 c  Ripe olives,cut up
      2 c  Uncooked noodles
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Onion salt
      3 tb Ketchup OR
      1 c  Canned tomatoes
 
  Brown hamburger.Add remainder of ingredients.Cover tightly.Bring to a
  boil.Simmer for 30 minutes,stirring occasionally.Add water as needed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rio Grande Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn (3 oz) mushrooms
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
    1/3 c  Heinz Ketchup 'n Onions
    1/3 c  Crushed tortilla chips
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
    1/8 ts Red pepper
           Dash pepper
 
  Drain mushrooms,reserving 1/4 cup liquid.Finely chop mushrooms.
  Combine mushrooms and reserved liquid with beef and remaining
  ingredients.Form into a loaf (8 x 4 x 1 1/2") in shallow baking
  dish.Bake in 350 degree oven,1 hour.Let meat loaf stand 5 minutes
  before slicing.Serve with additional Ketchup 'n Onions,if desired.
  Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Ground chuck
      1 md Onion,chopped
      2    Eggs,beaten
     12    Single crushed crackers
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
  1 1/2 c  Mozzarella cheese
      1 cn (12 oz) Italian tomato
           Sauce
 
  Combine ground chuck,onion,eggs,crackers,milk,salt,pepper and garlic
  salt in large bowl.Mix well.Add more milk,if dry.Turn ground chuck
  mixture onto long piece of waxed paper.Pat mixture into
  rectangle,about 6 x 13 x 1/4" thick.Spread mozzarella cheese over
  mixture to about 1" from edges.Start from one end and lift waxed
  paper and roll mixture into a log shape.Carefully,place in large
  oven-proof casserole dish,seam down.Pinch ends to seal.Pour tomato
  sauce over mixture.Bake 375 degrees for 1 to 1/2 hours or until
  middle is done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Scaloppine with Tomatoes and Olives
 Categories: Veal
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Slices veal scaloppine,
           About 1 1/4 lbs.
      1 c  Sweet red or green peppers,
           Cut into thin julienne
           Strips
           Salt and pepper
     24 sm Stuffed green olives
      1    Egg
      2 ts Finely minced garlic
      1 tb Water
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Drained canned tomatoes
      2 tb Peanut,vegetable or
           Corn oil
      1 ts Dried oregano
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      7 tb Butter
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Pound each piece of meat lightly between 2 sheets of plastic wrap
  with a flat mallet or the bottom of a heavy skillet.Sprinkle the meat
  on both sides with salt and pepper. Beat the egg with the water in a
  shallow dish.Coat the scaloppine on both sides with flour.Dip them
  into the egg mixture to coat well. Heat the oil and 1 tbsp. of the
  butter in a large skillet.Add the pieces of veal and cook over high
  heat about 1 minute.Turn and cook on the other side for 1 minute.As
  the pieces are cooked,transfer them to a warm platter and keep hot.
  Wipe out the skillet.To the clean skillet,add the remaining butter.
  When it has melted,add the pepper strips,olives,garlic and onion.Add
  salt and pepper to taste.Cook,tossing and stirring,until the peppers
  are crisp tender. Add the tomatoes and cook about 1 minute.Add the
  oregano and vinegar and stir well.Cook over high heat about 30
  seconds.Pour the mixture over veal and sprinkle with parsley.Makes 4
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Meatballs
 Categories: Meatballs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb All-purpose potatoes,
           Scrubbed and sliced, about
           3 1/2 cups
    1/2 sm Head red cabbage, about
           8 oz., cored and coarsely
           Sliced
      1 sm Onion, diced, about 1/2 cup
      8 oz Lean ground veal
      8 oz Lean ground pork
      1 c  Fresh bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      2 tb White wine
           Worcestershire sauce
           Salt and black pepper,to
           Taste
      2 ts All-purpose flour
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Capers,drained
 
  In 4 qt. saucepan over medium-high heat,heat 2 tbsp. oil;add
  potatoes,cabbage and onion;cook about 5 minutes until crisp-
  tender,stirring frequently.Add 1/2 cup water;cook,covered,10
  minutes,stirring occasionally.Meanwhile,in large bowl,combine
  veal,pork,bread crumbs,grated lemon peel,1 tbsp.EACH:chopped parsley
  and Worcestershire sauce,salt and pepper;using hands or wooden
  spoon,blend well.Shape mixture into 1 1/2" balls.In 12" skillet over
  medium-high heat,heat 1 tbsp. oil;cook meatballs about 15
  minutes,turning frequently until well browned on all sides.Using
  slotted spoon,remove meatballs to saucepan with cabbage mixture;keep
  warm.Stir flour into drippings in skillet;add lemon juice,remaining 1
  tbsp. parsley and Worcestershire sauce and capers. Gradually,stir in
  3/4 cup water;increase heat to high.Bring to boil;reduce heat to
  low;cook 1 minute.To serve:Pour mixture over meatball-cabbage mixture
  in saucepan;toss well.Spoon into serving bowl.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saucy Swedish Meatballs
 Categories: Meatballs, Ground beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 lg Egg
      1 c  Fresh bread crumbs, from
           2 slices bread
    1/4 c  Club soda
      3 tb Chopped fresh dill OR
  1 1/2 tb Dried dill weed
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      3 tb Butter
      1 pk (8 oz) medium egg noodles
      8 oz Fresh green beans, cut into
           1 1/2" pieces, about 2 cups
      2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms,
           About 8 oz.
    1/3 c  Sour cream
           Fresh dill sprigs, optional
 
  In  large  bowl,combine  egg,bread  crumbs,club  soda,2   tbsp.
  chopped dill,3/4 tsp. salt and 1/4 tsp. pepper;using hands or wooden
  spoon, blend well.Shape mixture into 1 1/4" balls.In 12" skillet,over
  medium-high heat,melt 2 tbsp. butter;add meatballs;cook about 12
  minutes, turning frequently until browned on all
  sides.Meanwhile,prepare noodles according to package directions,add
  green beans to boiling water along with noodles;do not add salt.When
  meatballs are browned,remove to plate using slotted spoon.To
  drippings in skillet,add remaining 1 tbsp. butter;melt over
  medium-high heat.Add mushrooms;cook about 5 minutes, stirring
  frequently until crisp-tender.Return meatballs to skillet along with
  3/4 cup water and remaining 1 tbsp. chopped dill,1/2 tsp. salt and
  1/4 tsp. pepper.Increase heat to high;bring to boil.Reduce heat to
  low;cook,covered,5 minutes until meatballs are cooked through. Stir
  in sour cream;cook 2 to 3 minutes longer until heated through. To
  serve:Drain noodles and green beans;arrange on serving platter. Spoon
  meatball mixture over noodles;toss quickly.Garnish with dill
  sprigs,if desired.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: California Country Meatballs and Peppers
 Categories: Meatballs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Red bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and cut into thin
           Strips
      1 lg Green bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and cut into thin
           Strips
      1 lg Yellow bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and cut into thin
           Strips
      1 lg Onion, cut into wedges
    1/3 lb Ground beef
    1/3 lb Ground pork
    1/3 lb Ground veal
      1 lg Egg
    1/4 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1 ts Fennel seeds, crushed
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Pitted black olives, halved
 
  In 12" skillet over medium heat,heat 1 tbsp. olive oil;add red, green
  and yellow peppers and onion;cook about 10 minutes,stirring
  occasionally until tender.Meanwhile,in large bowl,combine Butcher's
  Blend,egg,bread crumbs,parsley,fennel seeds,1/4 tsp. salt and black
  pepper;using hands or wooden spoon,blend well.Shape mixture into 1
  1/4" balls.Using slotted spoon,remove vegetables from skillet to
  bowl; keep warm.To skillet,add remaining 2 tbsp.oil;heat over
  medium-high heat.Add meatballs;cook about 15 minutes,turning
  frequently until well browned on all sides and cooked through.Return
  peppers to skillet, along with olives and remaining 1/2 tsp.
  salt.Cook about 1 minute longer,stirring until well mixed and heated
  through.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Taskebab
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 lb Diced beef
           Olive oil
      1    Eggplant, peeled and diced
      3 c  Light tomato sauce
    1/2 sm Onion,diced
    1/4 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Oregano
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Fry beef and eggplant in oil in skillet (or eggplant may be deep-
  fried).Prepare light tomato sauce.Combine with remaining ingredients.
  bake,uncovered,on low heat about 45 minutes,as for stew,to allow
  sauce to blend through meat and eggplant.Serves 4 to 5.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Style Flank Steak
 Categories: Asian, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Flank steak
    1/4 c  Green onion slices
      2 tb Sesame seeds,toasted
    3/4 c  Barbecue sauce
      1 cl Garlic,minced
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
 
  Score steak on both sides.Pour combined ingredients over steak.
  Cover;marinate in refrigerator several hours or overnight,turning
  once. Place steak on rack of broiler pan.Broil 15 to 20 minutes or
  until desired doneness,brushing frequently with barbecue sauce
  mixture and turning occasionally.To serve,carve steak across grain
  with slanted knife,into thin slices.Makes 4 to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Venison Picadillo
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 ts Chopped garlic
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 lb Venison shoulder or leg,
           Ground
      2 ts Red chili flakes
      1 ts Dried oregano
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
      2 c  Canned whole tomatoes,
           Seeded and chopped
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Raisins
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
 
  In a large pan,saute onion and garlic in the oil until onion is
  golden.Add ground venison,chili flakes,oregano,cumin,coriander and
  cloves.Cook,stirring occasionally,until venison is pink in color. Mix
  in tomatoes,vinegar,raisins,salt and pepper.Cook over low flame until
  liquid is reduced by half.Adjust seasonings and serve with tortillas
  and fresh salsa.Makes 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet and Sour Kabobs
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 md Green pepper, cut into
           Squares
    3/4 c  A-1 Steak Sauce
    1/2 c  Plain bread crumbs
      1    Egg, beaten
      6    Cherry tomatoes, halved
      6    Fresh mushrooms, halved
      1 cn (8 oz) pineapple chunks, in
           Its own juice, undrained
           Hot cooked rice
 
  Mix ground beef,1/4 cup Steak Sauce,bread crumbs and egg;shape into 24
  meatballs.Drain pineapple chunks,reserving juice.Mix remaining Steak
  Sauce with reserved juice.Set aside. Thread meatballs,pineapple,green
  pepper,cherry tomatoes and mushrooms on 6 metal skewers.Grill or broil
  kabobs,4 to 6" from heat source,for 10 to 15 minutes or until
  done,turning and brushing with Steak Sauce Mixture,frequently.Serve
  with rice bedding.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheddar Burgers
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 c  Grated Cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Soft bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Minced onion
      3 tb Heinz 57 Sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
           Sandwich Buns, toasted
 
  Combine first 6 ingredients.Form into 5 patties.Grill or broil to
  desired degree of doneness.Serve in sandwich buns;top with additional
  Heinz 57 Sauce,if desired.Makes 5 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moussaka
 Categories: Greek, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Eggplant, about 1 1/4 lbs.
           Flour
      6 tb Margarine
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 lb Lean ground beef
    1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley
      1 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Black pepper
           Salt
      1 cn (8 oz) tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      3 md Tomatoes, fresh, thinly
           Sliced
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/2 c  Grated Mozzarella cheese
 
  Cut eggplant,peeled or unpeeled,into slices 1/2" thick.Soak slices in
  salted cold water,30 minutes.Pat dry.Dredge with flour,brushing off
  excess.Saute on both sides in margarine until brown,adding more
  margarine as needed.Drain on paper towels;set aside. In large
  skillet,saute onion until tender.Add meat;saute until no longer
  red.Blend in parsley,nutmeg,paprika and pepper.Add salt, tomato sauce
  and wine;simmer a few minutes. Arrange layer of eggplant slices in
  bottom of lightly buttered 2 quart or shallow baking dish.Pour half
  the meat mixture over eggplant. Cover with half remaining eggplant
  slices.(Layers will be sparse if shallow baking dish is used.)Pour on
  remaining meat mixture.Top with remaining eggplant and tomato
  slices,overlapping,alternately,for an attractive visual effect. Beat
  egg with 1 tbsp. flour until smooth.Stir in cheese.Add 1/2 tsp.
  salt.Pour over casserole.Bake,uncovered,@ 375 degrees 30 minutes or
  longer,until top is toast brown.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Beef Stroganoff
 Categories: Beef, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Boneless beef sirloin steak
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 cn (10 3/4 oz) Campbell's
           Condensed Cream of Mushroom
           Soup
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 ts Paprika
           Hot cooked noodles
 
  Freeze steak 1 hour to make slicing easier.Cut steak into very thin
  slices across the grain.In a 2 qt. microwave-safe casserole, combine
  beef and onion.Cover with lid;microwave on high 5 minutes or until
  beef is no longer pink,stirring once during cooking. In small
  bowl,stir soup until smooth;stir in sour cream and paprika.Add to
  beef,stirring to coat.Cover,microwave @ 50 percent power 3 minutes or
  until heated through.Serve over noodles.Makes about 3 1/2 cups or 4
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mediterranean Stir-Fried Beef
 Categories: Beef, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Boneless beef bottom round
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Minced dried onion
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
      6 oz Linguine
      2 tb Butter
      2 ts Cornstarch
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      3 tb Olive or cooking oil
      1 pk (16 oz) frozen loose pack
           Broccoli, cauliflower and
           Carrots
      1 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
           Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Partially freeze beef, thinly slice across grain into bite-size
  strips.Combine water, vinegar, onion, pepper and red pepper.Add meat,
  Mix well.Marinate 15 minutes @ room temperature.Cook pasta according
  to package directions.Drain;toss with butter.Keep warm. Drain
  meat,reserving marinade.Stir cornstarch into reserved marinade; set
  aside.Stir-fry garlic in 2 tbsp. oil for 30 seconds.Add meat;stir fry
  3 minutes.Remove.Add remaining oil.Add frozen vegetables;stir-fry 4
  minutes.Add mushrooms;stir-fry 1 minute.Stir marinade mixture;add to
  skillet.Return meat.Cook and stir until bubbly.Cook 2 minutes.Arrange
  pasta and meat on platter.Sprinkle with cheese.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Fillet of Beef with Sour Cream
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lb Trimmed beef fillet
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
      4 tb Butter,divided
      1    Carrot, finely chopped
      1    Leek, white part only,
           Finely chopped
      1    Rib celery, finely chopped
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 cl Garlic, minced
    3/4 lb Bacon, cut into 1" pieces
    1/4 lb Mushrooms,sliced
      1 tb Grated onion
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 ts Horseradish
      1 tb Finely chopped parsley
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Chervil
 
  Season beef with salt and pepper.Dot with 2 tbsp. butter.Melt
  remaining 2 tbsp. butter in small roasting pan.Add carrot,leek and
  celery.Saute over low heat 8 minutes.Place beef in pan.Bake in
  preheated 500 degree oven 25 minutes.Cool in pan juices 1 hour. In
  medium skillet,heat oil and garlic.Cook 1 minute.Add bacon. Saute
  until barely crisp.Drain on paper towels.Drain all but 3 tbsp.
  drippings.Add mushrooms.Cook over moderate heat 3 to 5
  minutes.Remove,drain and set aside. Place cooled meat on cutting
  board,pouring pan juices into bowl. Add remaining ingredients to pan
  juices,blending well.Add bacon and mushrooms.Taste for seasoning.Cut
  wedge 1" wide and 1" deep along top length of beef.Remove long
  triangular wedge.Spoon stuffing evenly into cavity,filling with about
  3 tbsp. of stuffing.Replace wedge.Chill.To serve,cut beef into 3/4"
  slices.Accompany with remaining stuffing.Serves 6 to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Filet Mignon
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Filets, 14 oz. each
      6    Mushrooms,sliced
      2    Slices bacon, quartered
           Salt and pepper
      1 ts Crushed black peppercorns
      3    Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Allspice
      5    Cloves
      1 c  Brandy
      1 c  Burgundy
      1 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Butter
      3 tb Flour
      2 c  Beef stock
      1 c  Marinade
     16    Whole mushrooms
 
  Make two slits in each filet,about 3" long and not quite to the
  underside.Stuff these with slices of mushroom,bacon pieces and salt
  and pepper.Make marinade in a 9 x 9 x 3" pan or dish by combining the
  peppercorns,bay leaves,allspice,cloves,brandy, burgundy and vegetable
  oil.Place prepared filets in this mixture and refrigerate for 24
  hours or more. Remove and drain filets,when ready to cook.Grill
  according to taste,rare,medium or well done.To make a sauce to cover
  meat,melt the 1/2 cup butter in a small saucepan.Stir in flour and
  brown. Blend in until smooth,the beef stock and 1 cup of
  marinade.Stir in mushrooms and heat through.Pour sauce over
  filets.Serves 4.Decorate with parsley and onion rings. Recipe is from
  Brennan's Restaurant in New Orleans.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indoor Meat Sticks
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Of sirloin
      1    Green pepper
      1    Zucchini
     12    Pearl onions
    1/2 lb Mushrooms

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      2 tb Sesame seeds
      2 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  Combine the marinade and set aside.Cut and cube the sirloin and add
  it to the marinade.Marinate for 2 to 3 hours.Preheat the oven to
  broil.Cut the green pepper into squares and the zucchini into small
  wheels. Arrange the meat on skewers and the green
  pepper,zucchini,onions and mushrooms on separate skewers.Broil the
  meat on a rack 4" from the heat.Brush with marinade and turn every 2
  or 3 minutes.The meat should cook for about 10 minutes and the
  vegetables for about 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Batter Up Beef Pie
 Categories: Beef, Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked beef, cut into 1/2"
           Pieces
    1/2 c  Chopped onion, saluted in
           Butter
      1 c  Cooked carrots, cut in
           Chunks
      1 c  Cooked potatoes, cut in
           Chunks
      1 c  Beef gravy
    1/4 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Grated Cheddar cheese
      1 tb Dried minced onion
      1 tb Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Milk
 
  Combine beef,onions,carrots,potatoes and gravy.Set aside.Melt in
  bottom of 8" square baking dish in 350 degree oven.Combine remaining
  ingredients in mixing bowl.Stir until blended.Pour in baking dish.
  Pour beef mixture over batter.DO NOT STIR.Bake 1 hour and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hungarian Brandy Beef Goulash
 Categories: Beef, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Beef, first cut of the
           Round or stew meat, cut in
           1" cubes
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Paprika
      2 tb Shortening,half butter
  2 1/2 c  Onion, cut into 1 1/2"
           Chunks
    3/4 c  Brandy
      1 cn (10 1/2 oz) beef consomme
    3/4 ts Marjoram,crumbled
    3/4 ts Caraway seeds
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
 
  Toss beef with salt,pepper and paprika until coated.Heat shortening in
  large skillet or Dutch oven.Add meat;brown well over moderately hot
  heat.Stir in onions;cook 5 minutes.Remove from heat.Add 1/4 cup
  brandy; ignite.When flames die out,return to heat.Stir in
  consomme.Cover tightly;simmer until meat is tender, 1 to 1 1/2
  hours.Add marjoram and caraway;cook 10 minutes.Blend cornstarch with
  remaining 1/2 cup brandy. Stir into stew.Simmer,stirring until liquid
  clears and thickens.Makes 5 to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Corned Beef
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Corned beef
      1 c  Orange marmalade
      4 tb Prepared Dijon mustard
      4 tb Brown sugar
 
  Place corned beef in large pot and cover with boiling water.Bring to a
  boil,lower heat,cover partially and simmer as slowly as possible for
  about 3 hours or until very tender when tested with a fork. Preheat
  oven to 350 degrees.Mix marmalade,mustard and sugar together in a
  small bowl.When meat is done,remove from pot and drain.Place meat on
  an oven proof serving dish and pour marmalade mixture over it,
  coating thoroughly. Bake beef for 30 minutes or until glaze is crisp
  and brown.Serve hot or at room temperature with boiled
  cabbage,potatoes and or carrots. Serves 6 to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Rib Steak with Marrow and Red Wine Sauce
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 lb Marrow from beef bones
      2    Rib steaks, about 1 1/2 lbs
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper
      1 tb Corn,peanut or vegetable
           Oil
      5 tb Butter
      3 tb Finely chopped shallots
  1 1/2 c  Dry red wine
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/4 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Fresh or canned beef broth
 
  Cut the marrow crosswise into slices,1/2" thick.Put the pieces in a
  bowl and add cold water to cover.Set aside for 10 minutes or longer
  Sprinkle the meat on both sides with salt and pepper.Heat the oil in
  a heavy skillet large enough to hold both steaks.Add the steaks and
  cook about 10 minutes or until thoroughly browned and  scared on one
  side.Turn and continue cooking until  thoroughly  browned and scared,
  about 5 minutes.Cook about 5 minutes longer,turning meat
  occasionally. Transfer the steaks to a warm platter and pour off all
  fat from the skillet.Add 1 tbsp. of butter to the skillet.When it
  melts,add the shallots,wine,vinegar and sugar.Cook over relatively
  high heat until the liquid is almost completely reduced,about 12
  minutes.Add the broth and any juices that may have accumulated around
  the steaks.Cook about 3 minutes and swirl in the remaining 4 tbsp. of
  butter. Meanwhile,drain the pieces of marrow and put them in a
  saucepan.Add cold water to cover and salt to taste.Bring to a simmer
  but do not boil.Cook as briefly as possible,only until the marrow is
  barely heated.If the marrow cooks longer,it will turn into liquid
  fat.Using a slotted spoon,transfer the marrow pieces to the
  sauce.Slice the steaks and serve with the marrow sauce on the
  side.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Meatball Dinner
 Categories: Meatballs, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Soft whole wheat bread
           Crumbs
      1    Beaten egg
      2 tb Milk
      1 tb Chopped onion
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 lb Ground beef
      1 cn (10 3/4 oz) condensed cream
           Of mushroom soup
    1/2    Cup apple juice or water
      2 tb Snipped parsley
    1/2 ts Dried basil,crushed
      2 c  Frozen crinkle-cut carrots
      2 tb Margarine or butter,melted
    1/2 c  Brown rice, cooked
 
  Combine crumbs,egg,milk,onion and salt.Add beef;mix well.Shape
  mixture into 20 meatballs;place in 15 x 10 x 1" pan.Bake,uncovered,in
  375 degree oven 15 minutes.Drain and cool. Combine soup,apple
  juice,parsley and basil;add meatballs and stir to coat.Divide rice
  among 4 shallow single-serving baking dishes.Top with 5 meatballs and
  some sauce.Place carrots at one end of dish; drizzle with
  margarine.Cover with moisture and vapor-proof wrap; freeze. To
  serve,bake,uncovered,in a 375 degree oven about 1 1/4 hours,or
  cook,covered,on 70 % powder (medium high) 10 to 12 minutes in the
  microwave,turning once.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Medallions of Veal with Pistachio Butter Sauce
 Categories: Veal, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      4 lb Boneless veal loin, trimmed
           And tied, at room
           Temperature
           Salt and pepper

MMMMM-------------------PISTACHIO BUTTER SAUCE------------------------
    1/4 c  Finely chopped shallots
    1/2 c  White Burgundy Wine
    1/4 c  White wine vinegar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground white pepper
      8 oz Cold unsalted butter, cut
           Into 16 pieces
      1 cl Garlic,peeled and mashed
    1/2 c  Coarsely chopped, toasted
           Pistachio nuts
 
  Heat oven to 350 degrees.Melt 2 tbsp. butter in heavy roasting pan.
  Season veal with salt and pepper.Brown meat on all sides over medium
  high heat,about 5 minutes.Place in oven;roast about 30 minutes,until
  thermometer inserted in thickest portion registers 140 degrees.Baste
  with butter several times during roasting.Remove meat from oven,cover
  loosely with foil and allow to rest in warm place for 15 minutes
  before slicing.Slice into 1/4" thick medallions and serve 2 per
  person with Pistachio Butter Sauce spooned over top.Serves 8 to 10.
  
  PISTACHIO BUTTER SAUCE
  
  In small,heavy saucepan,combine shallots,wine,vinegar,water,salt and
  pepper.Bring to boil.Reduce heat;simmer until mixture is reduced to
  about 2 tbsp.Cool slightly.Over lowest possible heat,begin whisking
  in the pieces of cold butter,1 at a time.Do not add more butter until
  each piece is incorporated.The sauce will have the consistency of
  heavy cream after all the butter has been added.Whisk in the garlic
  and pistachios.Taste and adjust seasoning,if necessary.Makes about 1
  1/2 cups.Sauce may be kept lukewarm in double boiler.At serving time,
  place over heat and whisk in 1 tsp. cold water at a time until
  desired consistency is achieved.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange and Spice Pot Roast
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lb Beef chuck pot roast
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
      3    Slices bacon
      1 cn (8 oz) stewed tomatoes
      1 c  Orange juice
    2/3 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Snipped fresh parsley OR
      1 tb Dried parsley flakes
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      4    Whole cloves
      1 sm Bay leaf
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Cold water
 
  Sprinkle roast with lemon juice and salt.In 12" ovenproof skillet,
  cook bacon until crisp.Remove from pan;crumble;set aside.Brown roast
  in drippings.Drain fat. In medium bowl,combine bacon,undrained
  tomatoes,orange juice,onion, parsley,sugar,cinnamon,garlic,cloves and
  bay leaf.Pour over roast. Bake,covered,@ 325 degrees 2 to 2 1/2 hours
  or until roast is tender. Transfer roast to serving platter;cover
  with foil. Remove cloves and bay leaf from pan juices.Mix flour in
  water.Add to pan juices.Cook and stir until thickened and bubbly.Cook
  and stir 1 minute more.Pass gravy with meat.Makes 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cola Roast
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder
      3 tb Vegetable Oil
     12 oz Cola Flavored
           Carbonated Beverage
    1/2 ts Pepper
      4 lb Bottom Round Roast
     12 oz Chili Sauce
      2 tb Hot Pepper Sauce
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
 
    Preheat oven to 325 degrees. In a small bowl, combine the salt,
  pepper, and garlic powder; rub over the surface of the roast. In a
  Dutch oven, heat the oil to hot and brown roast on both sides.
  Transfer roast to roasting pan. Combine all the remaining
  ingredients; pour over roast. Cover and roast for 2 1/2 to 3 hours
  until tender.
  
  Source: The Mr. Food Cookbook OOH it's so GOOD!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Tortoni
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Sq Unsweetened Chocolate
      6 oz Semi Sweet Chocolate
    1/2 c  Chopped almonds
      4    Egg Whites
    1/8 ts Cream of Tartar
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Whipping Cream
      2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Vanilla
      6 oz Chopped Candied Red Cherries
 
  In a microwave oven or over boiling water, melt both kinds of
  chocolate. Set aside to cool. Toast the almonds in a shallow pan in a
  moderate oven (350 degrees) for about 10 minutes. Beat egg whites
  with cream of tartar and salt until foamy white. Gradually beat in
  1/4 cup of sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, until soft peaks form. Beat
  two cups of cream in a bowl until stiff. Beat in two teaspoons of
  sugar, the vanilla and melted chocolate, blend well. Fold the beaten
  egg whites, the chopped cherries, toasted almonds and the melted
  semi-sweet chocolate into the whipped cream mixture. Small chunks of
  chocolate may remain. Place paper baking cups in 24 muffin-pan cups
  (about 2 inches diameter). Freeze until firm. four hours or
  overnight. Beat remaining 1/2 cup of cream in a small bowl until
  stiff. Garnish each tortoni with a rosette of cream and a candied
  cherry.
  
  From The Gazette, 90/12/05
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kentucky Kernels - S.a. Express News - Karen Haram
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4 tb Butter (1/2 Stick)
    1/3 c  Bourbon
      1    Box of Powdered Sugar
      1 c  Pecans, chopped
 
  Cream butter by hand.  By hand, alternately blend in powdered sugar
  and bourbon.  DO NOT USE MIXER.  Fold in pecans.  Drop by 2/3
  teaspoonful onto wax-paper lined cookie sheets.  Cover with wax
  paper.  Refrigerate until set.  Cover and store in refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zinfandeli's Tortilla Soup - S.a. Express - Arlene Lights
 Categories: Soup/stew, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable Oil (or two)
      8    Corn Tortillas, chop coarse
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      3    Bay Leaves
  1 1/2 tb Chicken Base (See note)
    1/4 c  Cilantro, fresh, chopped
      1    Salt to taste
      2    Chicken breasts, cook & dice
      1    Corn Tortilla strips, fried
  1 1/2 ts Garlic, fresh, chopped
      2 c  Onion puree
      2 tb Cumin powder
    3/4 c  Tomato Paste
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Epazote, chopped
      1    White pepper to taste
      1    Chopped Avocado
      1    Shredded Monterey Jack
 
  Garnish Notes:  Chicken breasts should be cooked and diced.
                  Corn Tortilla strips should be deep fried.
  
  In large Dutch oven, heat vegetable oil.  Add garlic and 8 chopped
  corn tortillas.  Saute until tender. Add onion puree, tomato puree,
  cayenne pepper, cumin, bay leaves, tomato paste, chicken base and
  water. Simmer 20 minutes.  Add chopped cilantro and epazote. Remove
  Bay leaves. Blend mixture briefly in food processor. Strain through
  colander. Adjust seasoning if necessary.  Add salt and pepper to
  taste. To serve, spoon a portion of soup in individual serving
  bowls.. Garnish with diced chicken, avocado, fried tortilla strips
  and cheese. Serve immediately.
  
  Makes 8-10 6-ounce servings.
  
  NOTE:  TONE's chicken soup base was found at Sam's Wholesale Club in
  San Antonio.....
  
  Recipe from Arlene Lightsey's column, "Chefs' Secrets", 5 DEC 90
  Zinfandeli's is located at 741 W. Ashby Place, San Antonio, Texas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pour la France's Fudge Caramel Cake - Express News
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Tex/mexican, Dessert, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2    9-inch layers of choc. Cake
      1    Caramel Sauce (Recipe)
      2 c  Heavy Cream
    1/3 c  Light Corn Syrup
      2 ts Butter
    1/3 c  Heavy Cream
      1    Fudge Icing (Recipe)
  1 1/2 c  Cashews, roasted, unsalted
  2 1/2 lb Semisweet Chocolate
      1 c  Brown Sugar, firmly packed
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  FOR CAKE:
  
     Slice round cake layers horizontally in half to make 4 round cake
  layers.  Place 1 layer on plate and top with Fudge Icing, Caramel
  Sauce and Cashews.  Repeat with next 2 cake layers.  Place final cake
  layer on top, frost top and sides of cake with Fudge Icing and cover
  sides of cake with chopped cashews.
  
  FUDGE ICING:
  
  Bring cream to boil.  Stir in chocolate until melted and smooth. This
  will be very soft but will harden when cooled.  Refrigerate until
  workable consistency.        NOTE: The time it takes to get to a
  workable consistency depends on the weather.  This is much like
  making fudge candy. The author, (Arlene Lightsey), made this sauce on
  a cool, clear day and had no problem.
  
  CARAMEL SAUCE:
  
  Bring first 4 ingredients to boil and reduce to thick syrup. Very
  carefully, (because it will splatter), add cream.  Refrigerate until
  cool.
  
  Recipe from Pastry Chef Jenny Mattingsley, of Pour la France, 7959
  Broadway, San Antonio, Texas......
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jalapeno Seasoning Salt
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Garlic Salt
    3/4 c  Celery Salt
    1/4 c  Salt
      2 c  Jalapeno Powder; *
    1/2 c  New Mexico Chile Powder; *
 
  *  Both of these items should be available at grocery and specialty
  stores
     that handle Mexican foods.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sam Arnold's Cowboy Pot Roast
 Categories: Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Pot Roast
      2 tb Margarine; OR
      2 tb Canola Oil; Puritan
    1/2    White Onion; Md, Chopped
  1 1/4 c  Beef Stock
      1 ts Sugar
      6 oz Apricots; Dried, 1 Pkg
      1 ts Lemon Peel; Grated
           Salt & Pepper; To Taste
           Leeks; White Only, *
 
  *    Blanch the leeks with boiling water and then slice them.
  
  Cut the pot roast into small cubes (about 1-inch in size).  Put a
  casserole over medium-high heat on the stove top with the margarine
  or oil and the chopped onions to brown and caramelize.  When the
  onions are transparent and browned, add the meat to quickly brown.
  Add the beef stock, apricots, lemon peel and sugar, reduce the heat
  and simmer for 15 minutes. Heat the oven to 350 degrees F. and add
  the drained blanched leeks to the pot and adjust the salt and pepper
  to taste.  Bake in the oven for 2 hours or until beef is tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage, Cheese, and Egg Casserole
 Categories: Breakfast, Cheese/eggs, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 c  Herb seasoned croutons
  1 1/2 lb Mild bulk sausage
      4    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      2 c  Grated sharp cheddar cheese
    3/4 ts Dry mustard
      1    Dash of pepper
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  Place croutons on bottom of greased casserole, top with 1 1/2 cups of
  cheese.  Brown and drain sausage, put on top of cheese.  Beat eggs
  with milk and seasonings, pour over top.  Refrigerate overnight. Next
  Day: Dilute soup with 1/2 cup milk.  Pour over and spread remaining
  1/2 cup of cheese on top.  Bake at 300 F. for 1 1/2 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snails Bourguignonne / Escargots a la Bourguignonne
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     24    Large Paris mushrooms
           Salt and pepper
    1/2 c  Oil
    100    Canned Burgundy snails
    1/2 c  Snail butter
 
  Preparation 15 minutes.  Cooking 15 minutes.  About 100 snails.
  
  Remove the stalks from the mushrooms.
  
  Season the mushroom caps with salt, pour the oil over them and sweat
  them in the oven.  Take the mushroom caps out and place 4-5 snails in
  each one. Cover with snail butter and heat in the oven just before
  serving, exactly as you would snails in their shells.
  
  Dry white wines:  Quincy, Pouilly-Fume, Bourgogne-Aligote. Red wines:
  Saint-Emilion, Chinon, Bourgueil, Rully, Beaujolais-Villages.
  
  [From "Larousse Traditional French Cooking."]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Biryani
 Categories: Asian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Almonds
    1/2 c  Cashews
    1/2 c  Raisins
    3/4 c  Chicken stock
 
  Heat 4 tablespoons of butter in a heavy frying pan and saute almonds,
  cashews and raisins for about 2 minutes. Stir nut mixture into Saffron
  Rice.
  
  To Serve: Spread 1/3 of saffron rice mixture evenly in ovenproof dish.
  Spread 1/2 meat mixture over rice. Repeat once again and finish with
  final 1/3 of rice. Half an hour before serving, heat chicken stock,
  add remaining butter to stock and pour over rice and meat dish. cover
  and bake in oven preheated to 350 degrees for 20 - 25 minutes or
  until all liquid is absorbed. Serve trimmed with tomato slices, green
  pepper rings and fresh coriander.
  
  From The Gazette, 91/01/30.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snails with Frogs' Legs / Escargots Aux Grenouilles
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     48    Burgundy snails
           Court bouillon
      4    Shallots
           Chives
    3/4 c  White Macon wine
     24    Frogs' legs
    1/2 c  Milk
           Flour
      4 tb Butter
           Salt and pepper
           Chopped parsley, to garnish
 
  [Looking at the ingredients, I figure that this'll feed 4 as a main
  course or 8 as an appetizer.  -- mkm]
  
  Preparation 1 1/2 hours.  Cooking 1 1/4 hours.
  
  Cook the snails in advance in a court bouillon, then remove them from
  their shells.  [There's a description of court bouillon in "Joy of
  Cooking." Basically, a court bouillon is an aromatic liquid or stock,
  sometimes containing wine, vinegar or lemon juice, used mainly for
  cooking fish and shellfish, but also sometimes white offal (variety
  meats) and some white meats.  -- mkm]  Chop them, together with the
  peeled shallots and a small bunch of well-washed chives.  Place these
  ingredients in a saucepan with the wine, cover and simmer for 1 hour.
  
  Meanwhile, soak the frogs' legs in the milk for 1 hour.  Drain them,
  then roll in flour and saute in the butter in a frying pan over a
  brisk heat for 10 minutes.  Add the snails, together with their
  cooking juices, and season with salt and pepper.  [Personally, I
  prefer to mill the pepper at the dinner table.  The smell of the
  freshly ground pepper would otherwise be lost.  -- mkm]  Turn up the
  heat and cook for a further 5 minutes.
  
  Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve.
  
  White wines:  Macon-Clesse, -Lugny, -Vire or -Ige, Hermitage, Crepy.
  
  [From "Larousse Traditional French Cooking."]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Figue Vert (Green Banana) Gratin
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Green bananas
      2 c  Chicken Stock
      2 tb Butter
      1    Small Onion, chopped
      1 c  Light cream or milk
      2    Eggs, beaten
           Salt
           Ground Nutmeg
      1 pn Cinnamon
      1 c  Grated Cheddar Cheese
    1/2 c  Fresh Bread Crumbs
 
  Grated Gruyere cheese can be used instead of cheddar cheese. Place
  bananas in saucepan and add just enough chicken stock to cover. Bring
  to a boil, reduce heat and simmer until bananas are tender, about 20
  to 25 minutes. Using a potato masher, mash until smooth (chicken
  stock will be absorbed). Let cool slightly. Meanwhile, heat butter in
  a small frypan and saute onions until tender. Add the onions, cream,
  beaten eggs to cooked bananas until combined; season with salt,
  nutmeg and cinnamon to taste. Mixture will be quite moist. Place
  banana mixture in a buttered shallow baking dish. Combine cheese with
  bread crumbs; sprinkle over top. Bake at 350 for 35 - 40 minutes or
  until top is golden. Serves 4 - 6.
  
  From The Gazette, 91/02/13.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Flambie
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Medium sized Ripe Bananas
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/3 c  Apricot Jam
    1/3 c  Orange Juice
      4 tb White Rum or Heated Brandy
 
  In a large frypan, melt butter over medium heat. Add bananas and cook
  for 3 ~ 4 minutes, then carefully turn bananas over and cook 1 - 2
  minutes more until just tender. Transfer bananas to a dish. Add
  apricot jam and orange juice to frypan; bring to boil and cook about
  2 minutes until sauce thickens; return bananas to dish. Add rum or
  brandy; light with a match and flame. Serve immediately, accompanied
  with ice cream or a dollop of whipped cream. Serves 4.
  
  From The Gazette, 91/02/13.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Budwix Cream
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 ts Budwix
      2 ts Cold-pressed Oil
      2 tb Cottage Cheese
      1    Juice of 1 Lemon
      2 ts Honey
      1    Banana
 
  *Budwix is a mixture of millet, almonds and flax seed. You can use
  plain yogurt or Quark cheese instead of cottage cheese. Other
  seasonal fruits can be used instead of a banana. In a blender, grind
  the grain-and-nut mixture until homogeneous but gritty. Add oil,
  cottage cheese, lemon juice, honey and fruit to the mixture in the
  blender. Blend until smooth and serve immediately.
  
  From The Gazette, 91/02/20.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Shrimp Stew
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Seafood, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Chopped Bacon
    1/3 c  All-Purpose Flour
      4    Stalks Celery, chopped
      1    Large Onion, chopped
      1    Large Green Pepper, chopped
      6    Green Onions, chopped
      1 c  Tomato Paste
      3 c  Seafood Stock
      2 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      1 tb Granulated Sugar
           Creole Spices
      2 lb Uncooked, shelled Shrimp
    1/4 c  Minced Fresh Parsley
 
  * Instead of using bacon fat to blend with the flour, it can be
  drained off and you can use oil. cook bacon in large, heavy pan over
  medium heat until fat escapes and bacon is crisp. Blend in flour and
  whisk until it burns a peanut brown color. Add celery, onion, green
  pepper and green onions and cook, stirring until vegetables soften,
  about 10 minutes. Blend in tomato paste, seafood stock, water, lemon
  juice, sugar and spices to taste. Stir to blend mixture into a roux.
  Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer very slowly, stirring
  frequently, until sauce thickens, about 10 minutes. Add uncooked,
  shelled, deveined shrimp and parsley and continue to cook over low
  heat, just until shrimp turn pink. taste and adjust seasonings. Serve
  hot over hot rice. 4 servings.
  
  By Christophe Ritoux, Cajun House, From The Gazette, 91/02/27.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Crosses
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 18 servings
 
      3 oz Cream Cheese, softened
      1 tb Butter, softened
      2 tb Honey
    1/4 ts Grated Lemon Rind
 
  In a small bowl, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth. Beat in
  honey and lemon rind. Refrigerate until ready to use. On warm buns,
  pipe mixture to make crosses on buns. Do not reheat once crosses are
  in place. Makes enough for 1 1/2 dozen buns.
  
  From The Gazette, 91/02/27.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Beef
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Boneless beef sirloin steak
           Cut into 1" cubes
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Grated onion
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Crushed red pepper
    1/2    Green bell pepper cut into
           4 pieces
    1/2    Red bell pepper cut into 4
           Pieces
    1/2    Yellow bell pepper cut into
           4 pieces
      4 sm Onions, parboiled
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Combine lemon juice,onion,vinegar,oil,cumin,garlic powder and red
  pepper in bowl.Add beef cubes,stirring to coat.Thread beef cubes and
  pepper pieces onto 4 skewers,adding 1 onion to each.Place kabobs on
  rack in broiler so surface of meat is 3 to 4" from heat.Broil 12 to
  15 minutes,turning occasionally,to desired doneness.Season with salt
  and pepper to taste.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Western Light Broil with Vegetables
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef top round or boneless
           Sirloin steak,cut 1" thick
    1/2 c  Light soy sauce
      2 tb Honey
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Green onions, finely
           Chopped
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      6 oz Asparagus tips, blanched
           (2 1/2" long)
    3/4 c  Diagonally cut carrots,
           Blanched
    1/2 c  Frozen peas,blanched
      4    Tomato roses,if desired
 
  Combine soy sauce,honey,lemon juice,onions and garlic powder.Pour
  marinade over steak,turning to coat.Marinate in refrigerator,6 to 8
  hours,turning occasionally.Pour off marinade;discard.Place steak on
  rack in broiler pan so surface of meat is 3 to 4" from heat.Broil 16
  to 20 minutes to medium-rare,turning once.Keep steak warm.Meanwhile,
  arrange an equal amount of each vegetable,in spoke fashion,on four
  dinner plates.Carve steak into 1/4" thick slices.Arrange 4 slices of
  beef over vegetables.Top with a tomato rose,if desired.Makes 4
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Diner Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Soft bread crumbs
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 sm Can tomato sauce
      3    Slices Mozzarella cheese
 
  Heat oven to 350 degrees.Combine all ingredients except tomato sauce
  and Mozzarella cheese.Mix lightly.In a 10 x 6" loaf pan, shape
  loaf.Bake 1 1/2 to 2 hours.Drain excess fat.Pour tomato sauce over
  loaf during last 1/2 hour of baking time.Place Mozzarella cheese on
  top.Bake 5 to 10 minutes.Serves 4 to 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Diner Goulash
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Chuck or round steak, cut
           In cubes
    1/4 c  Shortening
      1 c  Onion
      1 sm Garlic,minced
    3/4 c  Ketchup
      1 tb Brown sugar
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Paprika
           Pepper to taste
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Flour
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 pk (8 oz) noodles
 
  Brown first 4 ingredients.Combine and mix ketchup,brown sugar,salt
  paprika,pepper,dry mustard and Worcestershire sauce.Add mixture and 1
  1/2 cup water to meat mixture.Simmer 2 to 2 1/2 hours.When meat is
  tender,mix flour and 1/4 cup cold water.Stir into meat mixture.Heat to
  boiling,stirring constantly.Boil 1 minute.Pour over hot cooked
  noodles.Serves 6 to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Flannel Hash
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Beets,trimmed
      2 md Potatoes,peeled
      3 c  Cubed cooked corned beef
      2    Carrots, peeled and finely
           Chopped
      1 sm Green pepper,finely chopped
      1 lg Onion, finely chopped
      1 sm Clove garlic,minced
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
  2 1/2 tb Butter
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/4 c  Tomato juice
           Salt and pepper to taste
      6    Poached eggs
 
  Place beets in saucepan,cover with cold,unsalted water and slowly
  heat to boiling.Reduce heat and simmer until barely tender,about 35
  minutes.Drain under cold water.Remove skins,cube and place in large
  bowl. Cook potatoes in boiling salted water for 10 minutes.Drain.Cool
  slightly,cube and add to beets.Add corned beef,carrots,green pepper,
  onion,garlic and parsley.Mix well. Melt butter in 10" oven proof
  skillet.Press mixture into skillet and cook,uncovered,6 minutes.Stir
  in Worcestershire sauce,hot pepper sauce,tomato juice and salt and
  pepper to taste.Cook,without stirring, 30 minutes.Preheat oven to 350
  degrees. Using two large spatulas,flip the mixture over and place
  skillet in oven.Bake until the potatoes are brown and tender,about 30
  minutes. Top with poached eggs.Serves 4 to 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef and Tofu
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Beef broth
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
      1 ts Brown sugar
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 lb Lean ground beef
      1 cl Garlic minced
      2 c  Shredded Chinese cabbage
    1/2 lb Tofu, cut into 1/2" cubes
      3 c  Hot cooked rice
      2    Green onions with tops,
           Sliced
 
  Bring broth to a boiling medium sauce pan.Combine cornstarch and
  water in a small bowl.Set aside.Heat oil in wok over high heat.Add
  beef.Stir fry until no longer pink,breaking larger pieces with a
  wooden spoon.Add garlic and Chinese cabbage.Stir fry about 1
  minute.Reduce heat and add broth mixture;stir until thickened.Add
  tofu;gently stir until heated,about 1 minute.Spoon tofu mixture over
  rice and garnish with green onions.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Paprika
 Categories: Veal
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Boneless veal stew meat
      8 oz Fresh mushrooms,sliced
      1 c  Chicken broth,divided use
      1 lg Onion,finely chopped
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Dash caraway seed
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  In a 2 qt. casserole,combine veal,mushrooms,1/2 cup broth,onion,
  paprika,salt,pepper and caraway seeds.Cover with lid or plastic
  wrap.Microwave on high 7 minutes;stir.Stirring midway through
  cooking,microwave on 50% (medium) 21 minutes. Blend flour with
  remaining 1/2 cup broth until smooth.Stir into casserole.Microwave on
  high 2 to 3 minutes or until sauce thickens. Blend in sour cream;let
  stand 2 minutes.Serve over cooked noodles and sprinkle with
  additional paprika or chopped fresh parsley.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Mu Shu Beef Roll-Ups
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Shaved roast beef
      1 c  Orange marmalade
    1/2 c  Hot picante salsa
      1 ts Grated gingerroot
      8    Flour tortillas,
           9" diameter
    1/2 c  Sliced unblanched almonds
      2 c  Shredded fresh spinach
           Leaves, lightly packed
      1 c  Thinly sliced fresh
           Mushrooms
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced green onions
           Green onion brushes (opt)
 
  Divide beef into 8 equal portions;cover and set aside.Combine
  marmalade,salsa and gingerroot in small saucepan.Cook and stir over
  low heat until warm. Soften tortillas according to package
  directions.Spread about 1 - tbsp. marmalade mixture on 1 side of each
  tortilla;sprinkle with almonds.Top with beef,spinach,mushrooms and
  green onions, dividing evenly among tortillas;roll up.Arrange
  roll-ups in 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1" jelly roll pan;cover tightly with
  aluminum foil. Bake @ 350 degrees 15 minutes or until heated
  through.To serve, arrange 2 roll-ups on each plate;garnish with green
  onion brush. pass remaining marmalade mixture.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bourbon Marinated Steaks
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    1 to 1 1/4" thick T-bone,
           Porterhouse or New York
           Strips
    1/3 c  High quality bourbon
    3/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce or
           Commercial steak sauce
      6    Garlic cloves, crushed
           Freshly ground pepper,to
           Taste
 
  Place the steaks in a glass or ceramic bowl.Mix marinade ingredients
  and pour over the steaks.Marinate the steaks,covered and
  refrigerated, for 2 to 3 hours,turning them occasionally.Remove from
  refrigerator 20 to 30 minutes before cooking. Cook steaks over a hot
  fire,2 minutes on each side for rare,3 minutes on each side for
  medium.Brush with the remaining marinade until done. Discard any
  unused marinade.Total cooking time: 4 to 8 minutes,depending on
  rareness.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Beef
 Categories: Italian, Beef
      Yield: 14 servings
 
     10 lb Round or rump roast
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 cl Garlic,minced
      1 tb Oregano
      1 sm Onion,diced
           Salt
           Pepper

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
  7 3/4 c  Water
      3    Beef bouillon cubes
      8 tb Worcestershire sauce
      4 ts Oregano
      1 pk Italian Dressing Mix
      2 ts Basil
      1 pk Au Jus Mix
 
  Mix vinegar,2 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce,1 tbsp. oregano and the
  garlic. Pour over seasoned meat,slicing onion on top.Cover lightly;
  roast @ 350 degrees 3 hours or until done.Slice when cool. Before
  serving,combine sauce ingredients;bring to boil.Cool 10 minutes,then
  add sliced beef.Serve on poorboy buns.May be refrigerated 2 to 3
  weeks.Makes 10 to 16 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Rib Eye Roast with Red Wine Mushroom Sauce
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    3 lb. boneless beef rib eye
           Roast
    3/4 ts Salt,divided
    1/2 ts Pepper,divided
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 cn (13 3/4 oz) single strength
           Beef broth
      1 cn (4 oz) mushroom pieces and
           Stems, drained
      1 tb Chopped parsley
 
  About 1 1/2 hours before serving:Sprinkle roast with 1/2 tsp. salt
  and 1/4 tsp. pepper.Place boneless beef rib eye roast,fat side up,on
  rack in open roasting pan.Insert meat thermometer so bulb is centered
  in thickest part,but not resting in fat.Do not add water.Do not
  cover. Roast in 350 degree oven to desired degree of doneness.Allow
  18 to 20 minutes for rare;20 to 22 minutes for medium. About 15
  minutes before serving,remove roast when meat thermometer registers
  135 degrees for rare;155 degrees for medium.Tent with aluminum
  foil;allow roast to "stand" 15 minutes in warm place before carving.
  Roast should continue to rise about 5 degrees in temperature to 140
  degrees for rare,160 degrees for medium. While roast is
  standing,remove rack from roasting pan;skim fat.Add onions to pan
  drippings;place roasting pan over medium high heat on top of
  range.Cook onions,stirring occasionally,until tender,about 3
  minutes.Add wine;bring to boil;cook about 3 minutes or until
  thickened. Combine cornstarch and remaining,salt and
  pepper.Gradually,add beef broth to cornstarch mixture,stirring
  constantly;add to wine mixture in roasting pan.Continue cooking.Stir
  in mushrooms and parsley.Pour into serving container.Carve rib eye
  roast into thin slices.Serve with Red Wine and Mushroom Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Marinated Sirloin Steak
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    2 lb. sirloin steak, cut 2
           To 2 1/2" thick
      1 ts Finely shredded lemon peel
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Cooking oil
      2 tb Sliced green onion
      4 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Prepared mustard
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Score fat edges of steak.Place meat in a shallow baking dish.Combine
  remaining ingredients.Pour over steak.Cover;let stand 4 hours in the
  refrigerator or overnight,turning steak several times. Remove steak
  from marinade,reserving marinade.Pat excess moisture from steak with
  paper towels. Grill steak over medium-hot coals 17 to 20
  minutes.Turn;cook 15 to 17 minutes more for medium-rare.Heat reserved
  marinade on grill. Remove steak to serving platter.Carve steak across
  the grain;spoon marinade over slices.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Beef Short Rib Barbecue
 Categories: Asian, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Beef short ribs, trimmed
           Of excess fat and cut
           Crosswise no more than 3/8
           To 1/2" thick
    2/3 c  Thinly sliced green onions
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Oriental dark roasted
           Sesame oil
  2 1/2 tb Packed brown sugar
  1 1/2 tb Toasted sesame seeds,
           Crushed
      1 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Grated fresh ginger root
    1/2 ts Ground red pepper
    1/8 ts Freshly ground Szechuan
           Peppercorns
           Fresh red chili peppers
           Green onions
           Radish Roses
 
  Combine sliced green onions,soy sauce,water,sesame oil,brown
  sugar,sesame seeds,garlic,ginger,red pepper and Szechuan
  peppercorns.Place ribs and marinade in plastic bag or utility dish,
  turning to coat.Close bag securely or cover dish;marinate in
  refrigerator 4 to 6 hours,turning occasionally.Remove ribs from
  marinade;reserve marinade.Place ribs on grid over medium coals. Broil
  5 to 6 minutes.Turn ribs over;brush or spoon on marinade 1
  time.Cover;continue cooking 5 to 6 minutes or until desired degree of
  doneness.Place ribs on platter;garnish with chili peppers,green
  onions and radish roses.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brisket with Peppercorns
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Beef brisket, trimmed of
           Fat
      1 c  Soy sauce
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Cracked black peppercorns
           Corn Oil
 
  Marinate brisket in soy sauce and water for 24 hours.Before
  cooking,rinse in water,blot dry.Spread cracked peppercorns on
  counter,oil one side of brisket and press oiled side onto
  peppercorns.Peppercorns should completely coat one side of brisket.
  Place brisket on broiler pan,peppercorn side up and broil for 10
  minutes so that peppercorns are charred.Then,without turning meat,
  lower rack and roast the brisket at 325 degrees for 10 minutes (rare)
  to 20 minutes (medium rare).Allow to cool.Serve,thinly sliced,at room
  temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Judy's Swedish Meatballs
 Categories: Meatballs, Ground beef, Pork, Veal
      Yield: 60 servings
 
    1/2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
    2/3 c  Milk or water
      1    Egg
      2 tb Minced onion
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
    1/3 lb Ground beef
    1/3 lb Ground pork
    1/3 lb Ground veal
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Water
 
  Stir bread crumbs into milk or water;mix well.Beat in unbeaten egg and
  minced  onion.Add  salt,pepper,nutmeg  and  ground  beef;mix
  thoroughly. Divide meat mixture into 50 to 60 even portions.Shape
  into small balls Melt butter or margarine in skillet.Add
  meatballs;brown thorough- ly, shaking pan occasionally to keep balls
  round.Add water;cover skillet. Simmer 20 minutes.Yield: 50 to 60
  small meatballs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Beef Strips
 Categories: Beef, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef flank steak
      4    Finely chopped green onions
           (about 1/3 cup)
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Toasted sesame seeds
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 ts Sugar
      1 pk (16 oz) frozen Oriental
           Vegetable combination,
           Cooked
           Cherry tomatoes
           Parsley sprigs
 
   Partially freeze steak to firm.Slice steak,diagonally,across the
  grain into 1/4" strips.Combine green onions,soy sauce,sesame seeds,
  rice wine and sugar.Place beef strips and marinade in plastic bag or
  utility dish,stirring to coat.Close bag securely or cover dish.
  Stirring once,marinate in refrigerator 30 minutes. Remove beef from
  marinade;reserve marinade.Thread beef strips loosely (weaving back
  and forth) on eight (9 to 10") bamboo skewers. Arrange skewers,not
  touching each other,in a 1 1/2 qt. rectangular microwave baking
  dish.Brush with reserved marinade;cover with waxed paper.Turning
  skewers over midway through cooking (bring inside to
  outside),microwave on high for 4 minutes.Rearrange skewers again and
  microwave on high 1 minute or until beef is slightly pink.(Do not
  overcook.)Let stand,covered,2 minutes.Serve skewered beef strips on
  bed of cooked Oriental vegetables.Garnish with cherry tomatoes and
  parsley.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Danish Meat Balls
 Categories: Meatballs
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      1 lb Hamburger
    1/3 c  Catsup
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
           3-4 dashes tabasco
    1/2    Green pepper (minced fine)

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    3/4 c  Catsup
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      3 tb Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
           3-4 dashes tabasco
      2 ts Soy sauce
      2 ts Sugar
 
  Mix well & form into balls the size of walnuts. Cook over low heat
  until done but not brown. Danish meat ball sauce: Simmer
  approximately 20 minutes.Pour over meat balls.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Burgundy Beef
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Cubed chuck roast
      1 c  Burgundy
      1 cn (10 1/2 oz.) condensed
           Onion soup
    1/4 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
      1    Bay leaf
           Buttered noodles
 
  350 degree oven Time to prepare - 3 hours In casserole thoroughly
  combine ingredients.Cover and bake 2 1/2 to 3 hours,until tender and
  sauce has thickened.Serve over noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerbratin Meatballs
 Categories: Meatballs
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      1 ts Salt & pepper
    2/3 c  Condensed milk
 
  Make meatballs, brown in 2- tsp. butter.Add 1 1/2- cups water, 3-
  tbsp. catsup,1 1/2- tbsp. brown sugar,8- peppercorns (tie in small
  bag)1- bay leaf,1/2 tsp. salt, 9- crumbled ginger snap cookies.Cover
  skillet,cook at low heat 1/2 to 3/4 hour. Serve over mashed potatoes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fast Meat Loaf Patties
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Catsup
    1/2 c  Diced onions
    1/2 c  Oat meal
    1/2 c  Milk
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Celery salt
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
      1    Dash salt & pepper
 
  Mix into patties of desired size (at least 1/2 inch thick). Place to
  short strips of bacon on top and bake @ 375 degrees for about 25
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast in Foil
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Rump roast ( 4 - 4 1/2
           Lbs.)
      1 pk Onion soup mix
    1/3 c  Red wine
 
  Mix onion soup & red wine.Place rump roast in aluminum foil. Pour
  onion & wine over meat.Seal aluminum foil.Bake @ 300 degrees for 5
  hours. DON'T PEEK!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burgundy Oven Beef Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Flour
      2 lb Beef stew meat
      4    Carrots
      2 lg Onions
      1 c  Thinly sliced celery
      1 cl Garlic,minced
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Marjoram
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 c  Dry red wine
      1 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
 
  Blend sauce with flour in 3 qt. baking dish.Cut meat into cubes,add to
  sauce mixture. Cut carrots into chunks,slice onions,and add along with
  celery,garlic,pepper,marjoram, thyme,and red wine;add to meat.Oven
  simmer @ 325 degrees for 1 hour.Then add mushrooms and bake 1 1/2
  hours or until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bun Less Super Bowl Burger
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Lean ground beef
      2 md Onions
      3 ts Margarine or butter
           Seasoned salt and pepper
 
  Make 4 rounded burgers.Peel and slice onions.Melt margarine or butter
  in skillet and add onions,frying and stirring for about 5 minutes.
  Remove then.Put burgers into skillet and brown on all sides over
  medium heat for approximately 10 minutes.Turn down heat and add
  cooked onions,salt and pepper.Serve smothered with onions. (Recommend
  meal served with 12 ounces of selected barley,malt,rice, hops and
  water.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Beef with Colcannon Potatoes
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Corned beef for Oven
           Roasting
      4 c  Shredded cabbage
      1 c  Chopped onion
      3 c  Hot, seasoned mashed
           Potatoes
           Chopped parsley (opt)
 
  Prepare corned beef according to package directions.Toward the end of
  the roasting,cook the cabbage and onion in a small amount of boiling
  salted water for 15 minutes.Drain.Stir into mashed potatoes.Garnish
  with chopped parsley,if desired.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Spicy Orange Beef
 Categories: Chinese, Beef, Stir fry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef flank or round steak
      2 tb Corn oil
    1/4 c  Slivered orange peel
      1 cl Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      2 tb Corn starch
      1 c  Cool beef broth
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
    1/4 c  Orange marmalade
    1/2 ts Crushed dried red pepper
 
  In Wok medium heat oil: Add meat 1/3 at a time.Stir fry 3 minutes or
  until browned. Return all beef to Wok. Add: peel, garlic and ginger.
  Stir fry 1 minute. Stir together: corn starch, beef broth, soy sauce,
  sherry, marmalade and pepper. Stir into beef. Stirring constantly,
  bring to boil over medium heat. Boil 1 minute. Serve over rice.
  Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Burger Mignon
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------FILETS--------------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Ground round steak,ground
           Twice
    1/2 c  Soft bread crumbs
      3 tb Minced scallions
      2 tb Minced parsley
    1/8 ts Fresh ground pepper
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Beef bouillon
      6 tb Butter
      1 ts Seasoned salt
      6    Mushroom caps, for serving

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Minced parsley
      1 cl Garlic,minced
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Crushed rosemary
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Ketchup
    1/4 c  Red wine
    1/2 c  Beef bouillon
      6    Toast points for serving

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Onion ruffles
           Carrot curls
           Parsley
 
  Combine all filet ingredients except butter and seasoned salt. Shape
  into six patties 1 1/2 inches thick.Press 1 teaspoon of the butter
  into center of each enclosing well.Wrap a strip of foil,1 1/2 inches
  wide,around,folding over ends to secure. Sprinkle both sides with
  seasoned salt.Chill while preparing mushrooms and sauce.
  
  Melt 1 tablespoon of butter in medium fry pan.Saute mushroom caps.Set
  aside.Wipe out pan for sauce.
  
  Make sauce by combining all ingredients and simmer 10 minutes, until
  slightly thickened.Keep warm.
  
  Heat remaining butter about 4 tablespoons in large heavy fry pan.Cook
  filets 3 to 3 1/2 minutes on each side,slightly pink in center.Remove
  foil strips.Place on toast points on serving plate.Spoon on sauce and
  top with mushroom caps.Garnish. Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb - Be Cued Beef Ribs
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Lean,meaty beef short ribs
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt

MMMMM-----------------------BARBECUE SAUCE----------------------------
      1 c  Sliced rhubarb
      1    Envelope onion soup mix
           (1 1/2 oz.)
    1/3 c  Honey
    1/3 c  Chili sauce
    3/4 c  Rose wine
    1/3 c  Water
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/8 ts Pepper

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Red onion
           Greens
 
  Place ribs in 9 X 13" pan. Add 1/2 cup water.Sprinkle with seasoned
  salt.Cover with foil.Bake @ 350 degrees for two hours.
  Meanwhile,combine remaining ingredients except garnish in a sauce
  pan.Simmer 1/2 hour.Pour over ribs.Bake another 1/2 hour
  uncovered.Baste several times. Place on serving platter.
  Garnish.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Licking' Good" Beef Steak
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Round steak
      3 tb Oil
      4    Lemon slices
      3 md Sliced onions
      2 cl Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 cn Beef bouillon
      1 cn Beer
      3 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Parsley flakes
      2 ts Thyme
           Salt and pepper to taste
      8 oz Cooked broad noodles OR
      2 c  Cooked rice

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Green pepper slices
           Fresh parsley
           Cherry tomatoes
 
  Cut steak into serving size pieces.Brown on both sides in 3
  tablespoons oil to which you have added lemon slices. Remove steak to
  pan large enough in which to bake it. Layer onions and garlic over
  meat.Sprinkle flour over top. Now combine bouillon,beer,sugar,parsley
  flakes,thyme,salt and pepper.Pour over steak and bake uncovered in
  325 degree oven for 3 hours.Serve over cooked broad noodles or cooked
  rice.Garnish with green pepper slices,fresh parsley and cherry
  tomatoes.Serves 5 - 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Goulash
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef stew meat, cut into
           1" cubes
      1 md Onion,chopped
      2 ts Cooking oil
      1 cn Beer (1 1/2 cups)
    3/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
      1 tb Paprika
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Caraway seed
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3    Potatoes (about 1 lb.)
      1 cn (8 oz) sauerkraut
      2 tb Snipped parsley
 
  In a Dutch oven cook meat and onion in hot oil until meat is
  brown.Add the beer,water,tomato paste,paprika,salt,caraway seed and
  pepper.Cover;simmer 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours. Meanwhile, cut potatoes
  into 1" pieces.Add potatoes,UNDRAINED sauerkraut, and parsley to
  skillet.Cook,covered,about 20 minutes or until vegetables are
  tender.Cook,uncovered,10 minutes more or until mixture is thickened
  and most of the liquid is evaporated. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Top of Stove Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ground beef (about 1 cup
           Lightly packed)
      2 tb Uncooked rolled oats
      1 tb Finely chopped onion
      3 tb Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper as desired
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Tomato sauce
 
  Put first 6 ingredients in bowl;mix well.Shape into 2 loaves. Brown
  loaves on all sides in greased fry pan over medium heat. Pour off
  fat.Add water.Pour tomato sauce over loaves.Cover and cook over low
  heat 30 minutes.Add more water during cooking if needed.Serves 2.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet - Sour Meat
 Categories: Poultry, Beef, Pork
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 sm Green pepper
      1 tb Fat or oil
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    2/3 c  Chicken, turkey or meat
           Broth
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb Raisins
    2/3 c  Cut-up cooked chicken,
           Turkey, beef or pork
 
   Cut green pepper in 1" pieces.Cook slowly in fat or oil in a heated
  fry pan about 10 minutes,until tender.Mix sugar and cornstarch.Mix in
  broth,vinegar and soy sauce;add to green pepper.Cook over medium
  heat,stirring until sauce is clear and thickened.Add meat and
  raisins.Heat.Serves 2.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dumplings
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Bisquick baking mix
    2/3 c  Milk
 
  Mix 2 cups Bisquick baking mix and 2/3 cup milk until soft dough
  forms.Drop by spoonfuls onto boiling stew.Cook uncovered over low
  heat 10 minutes;cover and cook 10 minutes.Maker 10 - 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Green Peppers (Oven Bag)
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Flour
      4 cn (6 oz. each) tomato paste
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 cl Garlic,minced
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Grated Cheddar cheese
  1 1/2 c  Cooked rice
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6 md Green peppers
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.Place large size (14 X 20") oven cooking
  bag in 12 X 8 X 2 baking dish.In small bowl,combine flour, tomato
  paste,water and sugar.Reserve 1/3 cup tomato sauce for meat
  mixture;pour remaining sauce into bag.Brown ground beef in
  skillet.Add onion and garlic;cook until transparent.Drain excess
  fat.Stir in cheese,rice,salt,pepper and tomato sauce.Remove tops and
  seeds from green peppers;stuff with meat mixture.Place stuffed
  peppers in bag.Close bag with nylon tie;make 6 half-inch slits in
  top.Bake 30 to 40 minutes or until peppers are tender.To serve, spoon
  sauce over stuffed peppers.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mean and Lean Beef Stroganoff
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Beef round steak, cut 1/2"
           Thick and trimmed of fat
      1 tb Cooking oil
      2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Instant beef bouillon
           Granules
      1    8 ounce carton plain low
           Fat yogurt
      1 tb All purpose flour
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
           Dash pepper
      2 c  Hot cooked rice
           Snipped parsley (opt)
 
   Partially freeze the steak.Thinly slice across the grain into
  bite-size strips.In skillet,brown meat,half at a time, in hot oil for
  2 to 4 minutes.Remove meat from skillet.Add sliced mushrooms to the
  skillet;cook for 2 to 3 minutes or until tender.Remove mushrooms.Add
  sherry,water and bouillon granules to the skillet;bring to
  boiling.Cook,uncovered,over high heat 3 minutes or until liquid is
  reduced to 1/3 cup. Combine yogurt,flour,sugar,salt and pepper;mix
  well.Stir the low fat yogurt mixture into the liquid in the
  skillet;stir in meat and mushrooms.Cook and stir over low heat until
  the mixture is thickened and heated through;DO NOT BOIL.Serve over
  hot cooked rice.Sprinkle the beef stroganoff mixture with snipped
  parsley,if desired.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fluffy Light Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 cn (6 oz.) tomato paste
    1/2 c  Oatmeal
      3 tb Finely chopped green pepper
           Or celery
      2 tb Bran
      2 tb Wheat germ
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
      1 tb Freshly chopped parsley
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
    1/4 ts Finely chopped garlic
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
           Chili sauce
 
   Preheat oven to 350 degrees.Combine all loaf ingredients, using your
  hands.Form into loaf and place in 9 X 5 X 3" loaf pan,cover with
  layer of chili sauce (or ketchup if desired), bake 50 minutes to 1
  hour.(Do not overbake,since part of the secret of fluffiness is
  shorter cooking time.)Serve the meat loaf sliced and hot.Serves 4.
  
  Variation: Half ground veal and half ground beef can be used for the
  meat loaf - lower in calories.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hungarian Goulash
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Beef stew meat, cut into
           1" cubes
      1 md Onion,sliced
      1 sm Clove garlic,chopped fine
    1/4 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Water
    3/4 c  Ketchup
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Packed brown sugar
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 c  Cold water
      2 tb Flour
 
   Cook and stir beef,onion,and garlic in shortening until beef is
  brown;drain.Stir in 1 1/2 cups water,ketchup,Worcestershire, brown
  sugar,salt,paprika and mustard.Heat to boiling;reduce heat. Cover and
  simmer 2 to 2 1/2 hours until beef is tender.
   Shake 1/4 cup water and flour;stir gradually into beef mixture Heat
  to boiling,stirring  constantly.Boil and stir  one  minute until
  thickened.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Beef and Tomatoes
 Categories: Chinese, Beef, Stir fry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 md Tomatoes
      2 lb Flank steak
      3 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 cl Garlic,minced
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/8 ts Ground black pepper
      2 tb Oil
      1 md Green pepper,sliced
      1 md Onion,sliced
      1    Beef bouillon cube
    3/4 c  Boiling water
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Cold water
 
   Thinly slice beef on the diagonal (for easy slicing,place meat in the
  freezer until slightly frozen);place in  a  snug-fitting bowl.Combine
  soy sauce,sherry,garlic,and black pepper;pour over meat,tossing to
  coat completely.Cover and refrigerate 8 to 10 hours.
   In a large skillet or wok,heat oil. Add green pepper and onion saute
  for 2 minutes.Dissolve bouillon cube in boiling water. Add beef and
  marinate.Bring to boiling point.Reduce heat and simmer,covered for 8
  minutes.Blend cornstarch with cold water. Stir into mixture in
  skillet.Cook and stir until thickened.Cut tomatoes into wedges;add to
  skillet;stir gently.Cover and simmer, just until tomatoes are
  hot,about 3 minutes.Serve hot over rice with scallions,if
  desired.Serves 6 to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato and Liver Stir-Fry
 Categories: Chinese, Meat, Stir fry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Tomatoes
      1 lb Beef liver
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Sherry
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
      4 tb Water,divided
      1 md Onion,cut in wedges(1 cup)
 
   Cut tomatoes into wedges(makes about 2 cups);set aside.Cut liver
  into 1/2" wide strips;set aside.In a medium bowl,combine soy
  sauce,sherry,cornstarch,sugar,salt and ginger.Add liver; marinade for
  15 to 20 minutes.In a medium skillet or wok,heat 2 tablespoons of the
  water.Add liver and marinade to skillet. Cook and stir until
  partially cooked,about 2 minutes.Remove from skillet and set aside.To
  the skillet add remaining 2 tablespoons water.Add onions;cook and
  stir until onions are crisp and tender, about 3 minutes.Add
  tomatoes;cook and stir until tomatoes are tender,1 minute.Add
  reserved liver and marinade;cook and stir until meat is cooked,but
  still pink in the center,about 2 minutes Serve with cooked rice,if
  desired.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Seasoning
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Salt
    3/4 c  Garlic,chopped
    1/4 c  Black pepper
    1/4 c  Cayenne pepper
 
  Combine together.Store in sealed glass jar.Self life unlimited.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Campers Hobo Pie
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      4    Carrots sliced
      2    Potatoes cubed
      1 md Onion, sliced in 1/4"
           Pieces
           Butter
 
  Form hamburger patties and put one patty,with individual servings of
  whole carrots,sliced potatoes and sliced onions,on a sheet of
  aluminum foil.Brush everything with butter and sprinkle with salt and
  pepper.Fold foil over food and place on charcoal or open fire Cook
  for an hour,turning every 15 minutes.Chicken  can  be substituted for
  the hamburger meat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scaloppine Al Lemon
 Categories: Veal
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Veal scallops, cut 3/8"
           Thick and pounded until
           1/4" thick
           Freshly ground black
           Pepper
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Margarine
      2 tb Olive oil
    3/4 c  Beef stock,fresh or canned
      6    Paper thin lemon slices
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Season the veal scallops with pepper,then dip them in flour and shake
  off excess.In a heavy skillet,melt margarine with olive oil over
  moderate heat.When foam subsides,add veal scallops four or five at a
  time,and saute them until golden brown. Transfer the veal scallops to
  a plate.Pour off most of the fat from the skillet,leaving a thin film
  on the bottom.Add 1/2 cups beef stock and let boil briskly for a few
  minutes,stirring constantly. Scrape in any browned bits clinging to
  the bottom and sides of the pan. Return the veal to the skillet and
  arrange lemon slices on top. Cover skillet and simmer over low heat
  for 10 to 15 minutes or until veal is tender when pierced with a
  knife. Transfer scallops to a heated platter and surround with lemon
  slices. Add the 1/4 cup of remaining beef stock to the juices in the
  skillet and oil briskly until stock turns to a syrupy glaze.Add the
  lemon juice and cook,stirring,for 1 minute.Pour sauce over scallops.
  Serves 6.
  
  Note: Veal cubes (stewing meat) may be substituted. Pound as flat as
      possible. Follow directions above,but cooking time will be
      increased to 45 minutes to an hour over low heat or until
      tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice and Beef Oriental
 Categories: Asian, Beef, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Flank steak, cut into thin
           Strips
      2 tb Oil
  1 1/2 c  Broccoli florets
    1/2 c  Scallions,cut diagonally
           Into 1" pieces
    1/2 c  Diced red pepper
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 pk French's Spice Your Rice
           Beef and Onions Flavor
           Seasoning
  1 1/2 c  Rice
 
  Saute beef in oil in large skillet until browned,about 3 to 5
  minutes.Add vegetables and stir fry 2 minutes.Add water,sherry,soy
  sauce and seasoning mix.Bring to a full boil.Stir in rice.Cover;
  remove from heat.Let stand 5 minutes.Fluff with a fork.Makes 4
  servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A Different Meatloaf
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Ground chuck
      1    Egg, beaten
    3/4 c  Cheddar, cut in small cubes
           (optional)
      1 sm Onion, chopped
    1/2 md Green pepper, chopped
      1    Stalk celery, sliced thin
           Lots black pepper, freshly
           Ground
           Dash paprika
           Seasoned salt
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Breadcrumbs, Italian-style
      3    Slices bacon
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng A DIFFERENT MEATLOAF
  (Not-Just-Your-Ordinary!) Combine chuck through seasonings. Add milk
  and breadcrumbs. If necessary, add a little additional milk until it
  just barely keeps together in your hands when you try to pick it up.
  In small open roasting pan, form into oval. Lay strips of bacon on
  top. Bake at 450 for approximately 1 hour, or until bacon is crisp.
  Remove to paper towels to drain before placing on serving platter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poor Man's Lasagne
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground chuck
      1    Med onion, chopped
    1/2 md Green pepper (optional)
     16 cn Tomato sauce
     16 cn Tomatos, drained and
           Smooshed
      4 cl Garlic
      1 md Onion, chopped (again)
      1    Bay leaf
           Lots oregano, basil,
           Marjoram
           Dashes Worcestershire
           Dash tobasco or cayenne
           Splash red wine
           Lots parmesan
      8 oz Mushrooms, halved & sauteed
      4 oz Macaroni, cooked al dente
      6    Slices American cheese
           Sprinkles chives
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng POOR MAN'S LASAGNE Brown beef,
  onion and green pepper; drain. Add everything but last 3 ingredients.
  Simmer to blend flavors for 1/2 hour. Add macaroni to pot and stir.
  Spoon into greased 1-1/2 quart casserole. Top with cheese. Bake at
  375 until cheese is bubbly, about 10-15 mins. Sprinkle with chives
  and serve with garlic bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Stuffing Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Shredded carrots
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
      6 tb Butter
  2 1/2 c  Herbed stuffing cubes
      1 cn Condensed cream of chicken
           Soup
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      4 md Zucchini, cut 2 inch thick
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Monica Pefley Zucchini Stuffing Casserole
  Cook zucchini in a little boiling water until tender. Drain. Saute
  carrots and onions in 4 Tbsp butter until tender. Remove from heat,
  stir in 1-1/2 cup stuffing cubes, soup, and sour cream. Gently stir
  in zucchini. Turn into a casserole dish. Melt remaining butter and
  combine with remaining stuffing cubes. Toss lightly and spoon onto
  top of casserole. Bake uncovered 30-40 minutes at 350 degrees. Serves
  6-8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Tomatoes
 Categories: Vegetable, Tomato
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan or Gruyere
           Cheese
    1/4 c  Minced Shallot or Green
           Onion
      2 tb Minced Parsley
      2 lg Ripe Tomatoes, sliced into
           Thirds
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass Originally from: "Too Busy
  To Cook?", Bon Appetit BROILED TOMATOES Preheat broiler. Combine all
  ingredients except tomatoes in small bowl and blend well. Gently
  spread mixture about 1/4 inch thick on tomatoes. Broil 4 inches from
  heat source until lightly browned, about 2 ts o 3 minutes. Serve
  immediately.
  
  Serves 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Food Recipe
 Categories: Asian, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Bunch spinich
      1    Oil
           Black mustard seeds
           Crushed red chillis
           Turmeric
           Mint
           Yoghurt
           Lemon juice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Jonathan Kandell Indian Food Recipes Put
  about four tablespoons veg oil in pan. Heat on med. Put in black
  mustard seeds and chillis and heat until mustard seeds begin to pop.
  Then add spinich and a tiny bit of water, cover, and cook on low for
  a few minutes, until spinach is practically done.
  
  Turn off heat, and add quite a bit of mint; stir it in well. Add a
  cap of Real Lemon (c), or fresh squeezed. Add two large dollups of
  yogurt--about 1/3 as much in volume as the spinach before cooking.
  
  Stir well and eat.
  
  I forgot one step: Before covering and cooking spinich, sprinkle with
  enough turmeric to make it look like dust.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hungarian Cabbage Rolls
 Categories: Beef, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Cabbage
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1    Onion, chopped
      1 c  Rice
      1    Egg
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Paprika
      2 c  Sauerkraut
      2 tb Tomato sauce
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  HUNGARIAN CABBAGE ROLLS Core cabbage and place in large bowl. Cover
  cabbage with boiling water and let stand five minutes. (If cabbage is
  very large, repeat this process after you've stuffed half of the
  leaves). Combine meat, onion, rice, egg, salt, pepper and paprika.
  Drain cabbage and remove leaves, cutting off the thick end of the
  stem. Put about two tablespoons of filling on a leaf. Fold sides in
  and roll. Place seam side down in a slow cooker. Spread sauerkraut on
  top. Add tomato sauce and water. Cook on low six to eight hours.
  Remove rolls, blend sour cream with sauce and serve with cabbage
  rolls.
  
  Servings: 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Sticky Buns
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------INGREDIENTS FOR BUNS-------------------------
  1 1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Butter
  3 1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2 pk Yeast
      1    Egg

MMMMM------------------INGREDIENTS FOR TOPPING-----------------------
      1 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 tb Butter
      2 tb Corn syrup
      1 c  Walnuts
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Barbara Zack QUICK STICKY BUNS Heat milk
  and butter to 120 to 130 degrees. Mix together 2 cups flour, sugar,
  salt, yeast and egg. Add liquid and beat medium four minutes. Stir in
  rest of flour. Cover and rise until double (30 to 45 minutes).
  Generously grease 24 muffin cups. Chop nuts. Heat all topping
  ingredients on low until ingredients are melted and combined. Divide
  topping between muffin cups. Stir down batter. Drop into muffin cups.
  Cover and rise until double (20 to 30 minutes). Preheat oven to 375
  degrees. Place tins on cookie sheet and bake 12 to 15 minutes until
  golden brown. Cool three minutes then invert on waxed paper.
  
  Servings: 24
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Gravey
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pepper
      3 md Onions, chopped
      1 lb Ground chuck
  1 1/2 c  Water + 2 Tb
      1    Beef bouillion cube
           Pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marge Hamburger Gravy Okay... several
  onions, maybe 2 large or three medium, very coarsely chopped. 1 pound
  hamburger, probably ground chuck or leaner. Scramble/brown the
  hamburger and onions together over medium heat, keeping the meat
  chopped as finely as possible, you don't want big clumps in this,
  until meat is cooked, and onion translucent. Drain off the excess
  grease from the meat, trying to leave about a tablespoon or two in
  the skillet. Sprinkle a scant two tablespoons of water over the meat
  mixture, and stir it in well over low to medium heat. Add
  approximately a cup and a half of water, and stir to blend. (You
  might want to toss a bouillion cube in at this point, won't hurt it
  any!) Simmer, stirring, until the "gravy" thickens... Taste and see
  about adding a healthy shake or three of pepper and (if you omitted
  the bouillion cube) a dash of salt. Won't hurt it to stay warm on the
  back of the stove for a while while the potatoes finish boiling, the
  flavor will go into the gravy more that way. Howzat for indefinite?
  But there WAS no recipe...we just made it!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Raisin Cream Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pastry for 2-crust pie

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      8 c  Tart apple slices, 1/8"
           Thick
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 c  Raisins
           Dash of salt, if desired
      2 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 tb (rounded) butter
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
 
  Apple Raisin Cream Pie
  
  Make favorite pastry; line bottom of pie tin with one crust and set
  aside. Combine apple slices, sugar, flour, spices, raisins, salt and
  lemon peel; mix together well. Spoon filling into pastry-lined pan;
  dot with butter. Cover with top crust decorated with steam vents;
  seal edges. Cut a 1-in circle from dough in center of top crust. Bake
  at 400 ea 00 for 40-45 minutes. Remove pie from oven; slowly pour
  cream into center hole of top crust. Return to oven; bake 5-10
  minutes longer. Let stand 5 minutes before cutting. (Refrigerate any
  leftovers.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream-Lemon Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
  3 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Lemon rind, grated
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
      3    Egg yolks, slightly beaten
      1 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Cultured sour cream
      1    Baked 9-in pie shell
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream,
           Whipped
           Lemon twists for garnish
 
  Sour Cream-Lemon Pie Combine sugar, cornstarch, lemon rind, juice, egg
  yolks and milk in heavy saucepan; cook over medium heat until thick.
  Stir in butter and cool mixture to room temperature. Stir in sour
  cream and pour filling into pie shell. Cover with whipped cream and
  garnish with lemon twists. Store in refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Pineapple Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PINEAPPLE LAYER---------------------------
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 cn (8oz) crushed pineapple
           With juice

MMMMM---------------------CREAM CHEESE LAYER--------------------------
      1    (8oz) cream cheese,
           Softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    9-in unbaked pie shell
    1/4 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Cheese Pineapple Pie Combine sugar, cornstarch and pineapple plus
  juice in a small saucepan. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly
  until mixture is in mixer bowl. Add 2 eggs, one at a time, beating
  after each addition. Blend in milk and vanilla. (If mixture looks
  slightly curdled, don't worry ~ it bakes out.) Spread cooled
  pineapple layer over bottom of pie shell. Pour cream cheese mixture
  over pineapple; sprinkle with pecans. Bake at 400 degrees for 10
  minutes; reduce heat to 325 and bake for 50 minutes. Cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hummus with Tomato Relish
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 cn Chickpeas
      1    Lemon
      1    Clove garlic
    1/2 ts Tahini
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Onion
      1    Tomato
      1 c  Coarse chopped parsley
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Hummus With Tomato Relish
  Drain the chickpeas, reserving 1/4 cup liquid. Squeeze the juice from
  the lemon. Mince the garlic, puree the chickpeas and reserved liquid,
  lemon juice, garlic, tahini, oil and salt in a food processor until
  very smooth. Chop the onion and tomato and toss with the parsley. Put
  the hummus on a plate and arrange the relish next to it. Drizzle the
  hummus with additional olive oil.
  
  This dish has 201 calories per serving and the recipe makes 6
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sauces #1
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 cl Garlic minced
      1    Ancho chile -- briefly
           Toasted and ground in a
           Spice grinder (approx.
           4 ts)
      2 tb Chopped fresh oregano
      1 tb Gold tequila
      3    Generous Tb chopped pecans
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter (1 stick).
 
  ANCHO-OREGANO-PECAN-BUTTER Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman
  To make each sauce, mix all the ingredients together well. Melt to
  serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sauces #2
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 cl Garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Freshly chopped basil
      4 tb Lightly toasted pine nuts
      1 tb White wine
      2 tb Freshly grated parmesan
           Cheese
           Salt to taste
           Crushed dried red chile to
           Taste
    1/2 lb Unsalted butter, softened
           (2 sticks).
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman
  BASIL-GARLIC-PARMESAN-BUTTER To make each sauce, mix all the
  ingredients together well. Melt to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sauces #3
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 cl Garlic, minced
      4 tb (generous) chopped fresh
           Cilantro
      2    Jalapenos OR
      1    Serrano chile (preferably
           Red), seeded and finely
           Chopped
      1 ts Fresh lime zest
           Salt to taste
           Crushed dried red chile to
           Taste
    1/4 lb Untalted butter (1 stick),
           Softened.
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman To make each sauce, mix all
  the ingredients together well. Melt to serve. SPICY CILANTRO BUTTER
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sauces #4
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 cl Garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh oregano
      2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Crushed dried red chile
           Pepper
      2 ts Chopped fresh chives
      1 tb Or more gold tequila
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 lb Unsalted butter (2 sticks),
           Softened.
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman To make each sauce, mix all
  the ingredients together well. Melt to serve. TEQUILA OREGANO BUTTER
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sauces #5
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 cl Garlic, minced
      3 ts Fresh rosemary leaves,
           Removed from the stem
    1/2 ts Orange or lemon zest
      1 tb White wine OR orange juice
           OR lemon juice
    1/4 ts Or more crushed dried red
           Chile pepper
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter (1 stick),
           Softened.
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman To make each sauce, mix all
  the ingredients together well. Melt to serve. ROSEMARY BUTTER
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maple Cranberry Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Fresh cranberries (1 bag)
           Well washed
      1 c  Maple syrup
      1 c  Cranberry-rasberry juice
      1 c  Walnut halves
           Grated zest of 1 orange
 
  Maple Cranberry Sauce
  
  Combine cranberries, maple syrup, juice and orange zest in a heavy
  saucepan. Bring to a boil, lower heat to medium, and cook ab. 10 min.
  or until the cranberries pop open.
  
  Carefully skim off any foam that forms on the surface. Stir in
  walnuts. Cool. Refrigerate until use.
  
  Recipe may be doubled, & made a day or so ahead.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Lemon Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 ts Finely minced lemon rind
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Plain yogurt
    1/2 ts Salt
      6    Eggs, hard cooked
           Tabasco
      6    Capers, for garnish
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: Nikki &
  David Goldbeck's "American Wholefoods Cuisine." "Stuffed Lemon Eggs"
  hard-boil 6 eggs, and remove the yolks. Mash with: a dash of hot
  pepper sauce like Tabasco.
  
  Whip it up real good, and stuff it back into the eggs. Then put a
  single caper on top of each one.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato and Basil Tarts
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Recipe puff pastry
      1    Recipe Thick Tomato Coulis
      6 md Vine ripened tomatoes
      3 tb Shredded basil
      1    Oil
           Salt and pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman TOMATO AND BASIL TARTS
  Quickly roll out the pastry and cut out six 4-5" rounds. Place rounds
  on a thick baking sheet and sprinkle with a little cold water. Place
  baking sheet in freezer until ready to assemble and bake tarts. Slice
  the tomatoes and lay them on paper towels for thirty minutes to drain
  off excess moisture. This will prevent the tarts from being soggy.
  One half hour before serving, preheat the oven to 450 degrees. Take
  the baking sheet from the freezer and spread a layer of Thick Tomato
  Coulis over the pastry rounds leaving 1/2 inch rim around the edge.
  Arrange the drained tomato slices over the coulis and scatter with
  shredded basil. Sprinkle with salt and some freshly grated black
  pepper then drizzle with oil. Immediately place in the oven and bake
  for 20 minutes or until the pastry is puffed and golden. Serve at
  once.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thick Tomato Coulis
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Meaty, vine ripened tomatoes
      2 tb Butter
      2 ts Chopped shallots
      2 cl Garlic, chopped
      2 tb Shredded basil
           Salt and pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman THICK TOMATO COULIS Drop the
  tomatoes for 30 seconds into boiling water. Remove from the water and
  peel them. Chop coarsely.
  
  Melt the butter in a heavy pan and saute the chopped shallot and
  garlic until golden but not brown. Add the chopped tomato and cook
  over a medium heat until the coulis is thick. Turn off the heat and
  stir in the shredded basil. Season to taste and set aside to cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Preserves
 Categories: Relish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Very ripe, sweet tomatoes
      2 lb Sugar
      1    Vanilla bean
     10 oz Water
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman TOMATO PRESERVES In a wide
  preserving pan boil the sugar and water to a syrup. Add the tomatoes,
  skinned and sliced. Boil steadily, stirring fairly often, for about 35
  minutes. Put in the vanilla bean (vanilla essence will not do). Cook
  for approximately 10-15 minutes longer, or until setting point is
  reached. Remove the vanilla pod, skim the jam, and let it cool for a
  few minutes before turning it into small jars.
  
  The cookbook says this is "particularly good when eaten in the French
  way, as a sweet, with fresh cream cheese or plain pouring cream."
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Gerkins
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Salt
      8 c  Sugar
      6 c  Vinegar
    3/4 tb Turmeric
      5 lb Cucumbers, 3" long or less
      2 ts Celery seed
      2 ts Mixed pickling spices
      8    1" pieces cinnamon sticks
    1/2 ts Fennel
           Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Sweet Gerkins These pickles
  take 4 days to make. The cucumber stems need not be removed. Wash the
  cucumbers, place them in a kettle and cover with boiling water. About
  6 hours later, drain and cover with fresh boiling water. Allow to
  stand overnight and repeat process. After 6 hours, has been added.
  Let stand overnight. Drain and prick cucumbers 3 times with a sharp
  table fork. Mix 3 cups sugar and 3 cups vinegar, add spices, bring to
  a boil and pour over cucumbers. Six hours later, drain the syrup into
  a kettle, add 2 cups of sugar and 2 cups of vinegar, bring to a boil
  and pour the cucumbers again. Let stand overnight. In the morning,
  drain the syrup into the kettle, add 2 cups sugar and 1 cup vinegar,
  bring to a boil and pour over cucumbers. Six hours later, drain off
  the syrup once more, add one last cup of sugar and bring to a boil.
  Pcak cucumbers into clean, hot jars and cover with the syrup to
  with-in 1/2-inch of the top. Place jars in boiling water and process
  for 5 minutes after the water comes to a boil.
  
  Makes 7 - 8 pints
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Potatoes
 Categories: Side dish, French
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Idaho potaotes, peeled and
           Cut into 1-1/4-inch chunks
      3 tb Rendered goose or duck fat
           (I use olive oil)
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      2 ts Chopped fresh garlic
           Chopped by HAND
           Coarse (Kosher) salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: "The
  Cooking of Southwest France", Paula Wolfert 1. 2-1/2 hours before
  serving: Preheat oven to 300 deg. F. 2. Cook potato chunks in boiling
  salted water for 3 minutes. Drain completely and shake dry in a
  collander. 3. Melt fat in a baking dish and add potatoes in 1 layer.
  Bake 2 hours, turning the potatoes in the fat from time to time.
  Allow all sides to turn crusty brown. 4. Raise the temperature to 375
  deg for the last 15 minutes of baking. Just before serving, sprinkle
  with salt, parsley and garlic. NOTE: During the first hour of baking,
  the potatoes will remain colorless. DO NOT attempt to raise the oven
  temperature during this time.
  
  Serves: 4. Preparation time: 10 mins. Baking: 2-1/4 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Uncle Jace's Salad Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Red wine vinager
    2/3 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Balsamic vinager
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 ts Seasoned salt
      1 ts Combined Italian seasoning
           (oregano, basil, rosemary,
           Etc.)
      1 ts Crushed red pepper
           Lots of fresh ground pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman AN ITALIAN STYLE SALAD
  DRESSING THAT WILL MAKE PAUL NEWMAN SUE. Uncle Jace's Salad Dressing
  
  Combine all ingredients and shake vigorously in a salad dressing
  container. This dressing is best when it has sat at room temperature
  for a couple of days. It can be chilled and whipped up in a blender
  for a creamier consistency.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chris's Kicky Ketchup
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Bottle (32 oz.) of the
           Cheapest ketchup that's on
           Sale.
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Celery, minced
      2 tb Bell pepper, minced
      4 tb Onion, minced
    1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/2 ts "liquid smoke"
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Ketchup with an attitude!
  Chris's Kicky Ketchup Combine all ingredients in a blender. Pulse
  until mixed thoroughly, but still leaving a few tiny chunks of solid
  vegetables. Wash the label off the ketchup bottle, put your own label
  on, and fill.
  
  For the hot sauce, of course I used Melinda's. You could use Tabasco,
  Louisiana Red Hot, or whatever you like. And, I used Wright's Hickory
  Smoke flavoring.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Cauliflower
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Cauliflower (2 10oz. pks
           Frozen)
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      2 ts Chicken flavored broth mix
    1/2 ts Ground sage
      1 cn (4oz) mushrooms
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Frozen or fresh cauliflower
  can be used in this recipe. Herbed Cauliflower Bake
  
  Cook cauliflower; drain. Melt margarine in a skillet. Add onions and
  celery, cook until tender, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat and
  stir in broth mix, poultry seasoning and sage. Preheat oven to 350F.
  Dice cauliflower. Add onion mixture, drained mushrooms, salt and
  pepper and mix well. Place mixture in a baking dish that has been
  sprayed with a non-stick spray. Bake 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rosemary's Chicken Salad
 Categories: Salad, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 lb Cubed cooked chicken
      2 c  Chopped celery
      2 ts Toasted bread cubes
  2 1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      4 ts Toasted chopped almonds
  2 1/2 ts Lemon juice
      2 ts Grated onion
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
    1/3 c  Bread crumbs
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Hot Chicken Salad ROSEMARY'S
  CHICKEN SALAD Combine chicken, celery, bread cubes, salad dressing,
  almonds, lemon juice, onion and salt. Lightly place into 2 inch deep
  baking pan. Sprinkle with cheese and bread crumbs. Bake at 350 for
  25-30 mins until bubbly.
  
  Servings: 10
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jello Flavored Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      2 c  Cake flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 pk (3 ounces) jello
    3/4 c  Milk
    2/3 c  Oil
      2 tb Lemon extract
      4    Eggs separted
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Jello Flavored Cake In one
  mixing bowl sift 1-1/4 cups of the sugar, flour, baking powder and
  gelatin together. In another bowl, combine milk, oil and lemon
  extract.
  
  Beat the liquids into the dry ingredients until batter is smooth.
  Beat egg yolks in one at a time into the batter. Whip egg whites
  until stiff but not dry with 1/4 cup of sugar. Fold the egg whites
  lightly but thoroughly into the batter.
  
  Grease ring pan with vegetable shortening and dust with flour. Spoon
  batter into pan and bake at 325 F. 40 to 50 minutes until cake
  springs to the touch. Turn out immediately onto a wire rack.
  
  Decorate with a thin icing and trim with what ever you want.
  
  Note: I used strawberry jello and extract and decorated after
  drizzling icing on top with fresh strawberries cut in half. I also
  have used orange jello. Decorate with candied orange slices. I also
  found that 40 minutes was too long to bake this cake in my oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Rice
 Categories: Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
    2/3 c  Diced celery, with leaves
      2 tb Chopped onion
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Fresh orange juice
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 c  Uncooked rice
           Grated rind of 1 orange
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman A wonderful sidedish for
  baked ham. Orange Rice Melt butter in a heavy saucepan. Add celery
  and onions, and cook until onion is soft and golden. Add water,
  orange juice, rind, salt and thyme. Bring to a boil. Add rice slowly,
  stirring constantly. Cover; reduce heat and simmer for 25 minutes or
  until rice is tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepper Cabbage
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      4 c  Shredded Cabbage
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 md Shreeded Green Pepper
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Thin Sliced Onion
    1/2 ts Celery Seed
      1 sm Shredded Carrot
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman PEPPER CABBAGE Stir sugar
  and vinegar together in mixing bowl to partly dissolve sugar. Toss
  vegetables, celery seed, and pepper with sugar & vinegar mixture.
  Refrigerate for at least one hour to soften vegetables. Stir
  frequently. Cabbbage with a zesty flavor prepared with a sugar and
  vinegar sauce. Served most frequently with fish, chicken, and as a
  luncheon side dish. Stores well several days in a refrigerated closed
  container.
  
  Serves [5]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Green Tomatoes
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8    Bushel medium size green
           Tomatoes
           Garlic
           Celery
           Hot Pepper
      1 ts Dill
      2 ts Water
      1 ts Vinegar
      1 c  Salt
           Pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Pickled Green Tomatoes
  
  Pack the tomatoes in quart jars, either whole or cut in half
  
  Combine water, vinegar, salt, dill and cook 5 minutes. Fill jars
  within 1/2 inch from top and seal.
  
  NOTE: Jars should be hot when you fill with the tomatoes as it
  assures the jars will seal properly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Nuts
 Categories: Snack
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Egg white
      1 ts Cold water
      1 cn Pecans
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman SPICY NUTS Beat egg white.
  Add water. Beat until frothy, fold in pecans. Combine sugar salt and
  cinnamon. Add to pecans. Mix. Butter 9x13 pan. Pour nuts in pan. Bake
  at 250 for 1 hour.
  
  Servings: 12
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potatoes with Pralines
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5    Sweet potatoes or yams
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs, beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/3 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Light brown sugar
    1/3 c  Melted butter
      1 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: Alex Patout
  SWEET POTATOES WITH PRALINES Preheat oven to 350F.
  
  Peel and boil sweet potatoes in a covered saucepan until tender -
  about 20 min. Drain and mash. Mix in the softened butter, sugar,
  vanilla, and milk. Pour into a baking dish or casserole.
  
  Bring cream to simmer in a small saucepan. Add brown sugar and stir
  until dissolved. Cook over medium heat to soft ball stage - 235F.
  Remove from heat and beat in butter and pecans. Pour over sweet
  potato mixture.
  
  All of the above may be done up to 2 days in advance and stored in the
  fridge. Then just heat in the oven until bubbling hot and enjoy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hidden Valley Rancy Oyster Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     16 oz Plain oyster crackers
      1 pk HVR buttermilk recipe mix
    1/4 ts Lemon pepper
      1 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      1 c  Salad oil
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman HIDDEN VALLEY RANCH OYSTER
  CRACKERS Combine mix and oil, add dill weed, garlic powder and lemon
  pepper. Pour over crackers, stir to coat. Place in warm oven for 15-20
  mins.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wendys Chili
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      2 ts Veg oil
      1 cn Onion soup
      2 ts Chili powder
      2 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 ts Cocoa
      2 cn Kidney beans, undrained
      6 ts Tomato paste
     15 ts Tomato sauce
      2 ts Brown sugar
      1 ts Vinegar
      6 c  V8 juice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman I have never tried it, but I
  found this recipe in a newspaper that says this is the recipe to make
  Wendys chili. WENDYS CHILI Brown beef in oil. Break meat into tiny
  rice size pieces. Place onion soup and half of cooked beef into a
  blender and process on high speed until it resembles cement mortar.
  Place with unblended beef into 2-1/2 qt saucepan. Add remaining
  ingredients and simmer until flavors are blended.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  Imperial Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 ts Butter
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      2 c  Bread crumbs
    3/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
      1    Chicken, cut up
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Imperial Chicken Preheat
  oven to 350 degrees. Line a cookie sheet with foil.
  
  Melt butter with garlic; let stand. Mix bread crumbs, Parmesan,
  parsley, salt and pepper. Dip chicken into butter, then into crumb
  mixture. Arrange on cookie sheet so chicken doesn't quite touch. If
  there is any butter left, drizzle it over the top of the chicken.
  Bake one hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken, cut up (cut large
           Pieces into 2 pieces)
      1 c  Oil
      2 c  Vinegar
      2 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      2 ts White pepper
      1 ts Marjoram
      1 ts Rosemary
      2 ts Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Marinated Chicken Salt
  chicken. Combine oil, vinegar, onion powder, garlic powder, pepper,
  marjoram, rosemary, and salt. Place chicken in mixture and marinate
  in the refrigerator overnight. Turn chicken a couple of times while
  marinating.
  
  Cook on the grill or in the oven (I use 350 degrees about 1 hour)
  dipping chicken once or twice in the marinade as it cooks.
  
  It's even better the next day after it's cooled in the refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fourth of July Cornish Hens
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 cl Garlic, minced
      1 tb Seasoned salt
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 c  Fresh lemon juice
     12 ts Bottle Wishbone Italian
           Salad dressing
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      1    Pepper
      1 ts Crushed thyme
      4    Rock Cornich Hens, THAWED,
           Giblets removed
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Originally from: local New
  Oreleans newspaper Fourth of July Cornish Hens Blend garlic, seasoned
  salt, oil, lemon juice, dressing, onions, pepper, and thyme. Marinate
  the birds overnight in the refrigerator.
  
  Cut the birds lengthwise. Cook on outside grill bone side down 10
  minutes, flesh side down 5 minutes, alternating 10 minutes and 5
  minutes in this manner for 1 hour and basting with marinade
  frequently (at least every 5 minutes) while cooking.
  
  Serves 8 polite people or 6 of us.
  
  Oven method: Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Place skin side up in a
  shallow pan, baste with marinade, cover with foil and roast for 30
  minutes. Remove foil and brush with marinade again. Roast again
  uncovered for 20-30 minutes. (Test for doneness: drumsticks should be
  soft and juices should not be tinged with pink when you pierce the
  thickest part of the thigh with a fork. Brush with marinade twice
  more during this second roasting period.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Natchitoches Baked Beans
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lg Onion
      1 lg Green pepper
    1/4 ts Ketchup
      2 tb Honey
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Worcestershire
    1/8 lb Chopped ham
      1 cn Campbell's pork and beans
           Dash Louisiana Hot Sauce
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Originally from: Steve Bays,
  a friend Another great fourth of July recipe given to me by my
  friend, Steve Bays. (Natchitoches -- pronounced nack-a-tish -- is the
  name of a Louisiana city. Natchitoches Baked Beans In a large
  skillet, saute onion and green pepper in ketchup. Blend in honey,
  brown sugar, Worchestershire, hot sauce, and ham. Add beans, BEING
  CAREFUL NOT TO STIR TOO MUCH.
  
  Cook on low heat, stirring occasionally and CAREFULLY, until liquid is
  absorbed. Let stand. Microwave to heat.
  
  Serves 6-8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scotch Broth
 Categories: Soup/stew, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Lamb neck or brest, well
           Trimed
    1/2 c  Pearl barley
      1 tb Salt
      3    Peppercorns
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2    Stalks celery, sliced
      1    Turnip, peeled and diced
      1 pk (10 oz) frozen peas, thawed
      1 ts Leaf thyme
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Margarita Towns Scotch Broth Combine all
  ingredients in crock-pot. Add water to cover; stir well. Cover and
  cook on Low ssetting 10-12 hrs or High 4-5 hrs. Remove meat; bone and
  trim off any remaining fat. Dice meat. Skim off fat from liquid and
  return meat to crock-pot.  2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Freezer Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Sweet cherries
      2 tb Lemon juice
  4 1/4 c  Sugar
           Sure Jell pectin
    3/4 c  Water
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bob Henderson Cherry Freezer Jam: Remove
  stem and pits from cherries. Finely chop in 1/8 inch pieces ending up
  with (2) cups of prepared cherries. Combine fruit, lemon juice and
  sugar in a bowl. Set aside for 10 minutes. Mix water and the sure
  jell together in small saucepan. Bring mixture to a boil over HIGH
  heat, stirring constantly. Continue boiling for 1 minute. Stir
  constantly for 3 more minutes. Pour into Freezer containers, cover
  with lids and allow to stand at room temperature for 24 hours. Store
  in freezer. After opening, store in refrigerator up tp 3 weeks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     10    Bananas
    1/2 c  Peanuts (ground)
      1 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Water
      1    Egg, well beaten
    2/3 c  Sugar
        ts Butter/margarine
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bob Henderson Banana Salad In top of a
  double boiler, combine the vinegar, water, butter, egg, and sugar,
  then heat over Medium heat until thickened. Stir often or it will
  stick... When cooled, pour over sliced banana's and top with the
  ground peanuts.
  
  Note: This syrup will keep well in the refrigerator for a week or
  more, so that you can use 2 or 3 bananas as needed by your family and
  reserve the syrup or sauce for another day.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Randy Farkas Jerked Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken (1 lb) washed and
           Quartered
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Crushed chili peppers
      2 ts Soy sauce, dark

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Breadcrumbs - dry
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1    Onion - large
    1/2 ts Pimento seed (allspice
           Berries)
      2 c  Cloves
      1 ts Butter
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: "Calgary Sun"
  newspaper Randy Farkas Jerked Chicken Mix seasonings and soy sauce
  and rub over the chicken pieces. Cover and refrigerate overnight to
  marinate. The next day, bake marinated chicken in 350F oven for 1-1/2
  hours. Meanwhile, make the sauce by blending all ingredients in
  blender or food processor until smooth. When chicken has cooked for
  1-1/2 hours, remove from the oven and dip each piece in blended sauce
  mixture. Return chicken to oven and bake an additional 15 minutes.
  Meanwhile, boil remaining sauce for 15 to 20 minutes, or until
  thickened. Serve hot sauce with the chicken.
  
  Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Meatloaf Aussie Style
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef - lean
      1 lb Sausage stuffing
      1 c  Breadcrumbs - fine
      2    Onions - medium, chopped
           Fine
      1 tb Curry powder
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Parsley - chopped
      1    Egg - beaten
      1 c  Clove - crushed
    1/2 c  Milk
           Salt and pepper to taste

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1    Onion - chopped very fine
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Ketchup
    1/4 c  Dry red wine OR beef stock
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce -
           Lea & Perrins
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Instant coffee
    1/4 c  Brown sugar - packed
      1 oz Margarine
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Barbecue Meatloaf Aussie
  Style - First Prize LOAF: Combine meats, breadcrumbs, onions, salt,
  pepper, garlic, parsley, curry and egg in large bowl. Mix well. Mix
  milk and water and add to meat mixture a little at a time until
  smooth but firm. Shape into loaf and put into greased baking pan.
  Bake 30 minutes at 375F.
  
  SAUCE: Saute onions in margarine until golden and add all other
  ingredients. Bring slowly to a boil, lower heat and simmer 10 to 15
  minutes. (great with ribs or chicken). After loaf has cooked for 30
  minutes, pour half of the sauce over the meat, return to oven and
  bake 45 minutes more, basting often with remaining sauce. Serve loaf
  hot in thick slices with remaining sauce. Also makes great sandwiches.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Filomena Rodriguez Market St. Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 tb Unsalted butter
    3/4 c  Onions - chopped
    3/4 c  Scallions - chopped
    1/2 c  Carrots - chopped fine
    1/4 c  Celery - chopped fine
    1/4 c  Red bell pepper - minced
    1/4 c  Green bell pepper - minced
      2 ts Garlic - minced
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Nutmeg - grated
      3    Eggs - well beaten
     12 oz Sausage meat
    1/2 c  Half-and-half dairy cream
      2 lb Ground beef - lean
    1/2 c  Ketchup
    3/4 c  Breadcrumbs - toasted
           Salt to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Filomena
  Rodrequez ~ Third Place in the Calgary Sun's Great Meatloaf Recipe
  Search - Calgary Sun, Monday, June 4, 1990 Filomena Rodriguez Market
  Street Meatloaf - 3rd Saute the onion, scallions, carrots, celery,
  bell peppers and garlic in butter until tender. Cool. Combine the
  salt, white and black pepper, cayyene pepper, cumin, nutmeg, egg and
  beat well. Add ketchup and half-and-half and blend thoroughly. Add
  ground beef, sausage and breadcrumbs to egg mixture, then mix in the
  vegetables. Place the meatloaf in a baking dish and place the dish
  inside a large pan. Pour boiling water into large pan until halfway
  up the sides of the baking dish. Bake at 375F for 45 to 50 minutes.
  Remove baking dish from water bath and let the meatloaf rest for 30
  minutes before slicing and serving.
  
  This contains 8-10 portions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jo's 2-Cheese Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef - lean
    1/4 c  HP Fruity Sauce
      1 c  Saltine crackers - crushed
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce -
           Lea & Perrins
    1/4 c  Ketchup
      2 tb Prepared mustard
      1 ts Celery salt
      1 ts Onion salt
      1 ts Garlic salt
      2    Eggs - large
      1 c  Onions - diced
    1/2 c  Green olives - sliced fine
      1 ts Tarragon leaves
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese - grated
      2 c  Monterey Jack cheese
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Fourth Prize
  winner in the Calgary Sun's Great Meatloaf Recipe Search. Submitted
  by Jo Vandevelde - Calgary Sun Monday, June 4, 1990 Jo's 2-Cheese
  Meatloaf - Fourth Prize Preheat oven to 350F. Mush first 14
  ingredients together by hand until well mixed and put into a bread
  pan. Stick knife in three places so meatloaf cooks evenly. Bake for
  30 minutes. Increase heat to 400F for 20 minutes. Remove from oven
  and drain juice from pan. Sprinkle all the Monterey jack cheese
  evenly over the top of the meatloaf and return to oven for 15 to 20
  minutes or until the cheese starts to bubble. Watch carefully so
  cheese doesn't burn. The meatloaf will have shrunk enough so that the
  cheese melted over all sides gives a frosted effect.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melanie Stevenson's Woodlands Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef - lean
      4    Pieces bacon
    1/2 lb Ground pork - lean
    1/2 lb Ground veal
      1 c  Breadcrumbs - fresh whole
           Wheat
      2    Eggs - lightly beaten
    1/2 ts Tomato or V8 juice
    1/2 c  Onion - chopped
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 c  Bell pepper - green or red,
           Chopped
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Basil
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce -
           Lea & Perrins
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Fifth Prize
  winner in the Great Meatloaf Recipe Search. Submitted by Melanie
  Stevenson. Calgary Sun, Monday, June 4, Melanie Stevenson's Woodlands
  Meatloaf - 5th prize
  
  Mix eggs, breadcrumbs, onion, V8 juice, green pepper and seasonings
  in a large bowl until well combined. Add meat, 1/4 pound at a time,
  and mix until combined. Shape into two round loaves and place two
  strips of bacon in an X across each. Place on a rack in a roasting
  pan and bake at 350F for 1 hour. (This is a healthy meatloaf.
  Calories are reduced by baking loaves on a rack so the fat runs off!)
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piquant Meatloaf with Mushroom Gravy
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Parsley flakes
    3/4 c  Evaporated milk
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Cracker crumbs
    1/4 c  Onions - chopped

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/4 lb Mushrooms - sliced
      3 tb Unsalted butter
  2 1/2 tb Flour
      1 ts Onions - chopped
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Cream
    3/4 c  Beef broth
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Calgary Suns
  Great Meatloaf Recipe Search - Monday June 4, 1990 Submitted by Lidia
  Barwis Piquant Meatloaf with Mushroom Gravy
  
  LOAF: Sprinkle meat with salt, pepper, paprika, oregano, thyme, garlic
  powder, chili powder and parsley flakes. Toss with fork to mix.
  Combine evaporated milk and egg in bowl, stir in cracker crumbs and
  let soak for 5 minutes. Add to ground beef mixture with onions and
  mix well. Bake in 350F oven for 1-1/4 hours.
  
  GRAVY: Saute mushrooms and onions in butter until limp. Combine
  flour, salt and paprika. Blend with mushrooms. Stir in broth and
  cream. Cook until thick and bubbly. Serve over sliced meatloaf.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Richard Foxton's Vegetarian Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Lentils - raw, brown
    1/4 c  Wheat germ
      1 c  Breadcrumbs - whole wheat
    1/2 c  Brown rice
      1    Onion - small, minced
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Clove - crushed
      1 ts Thyme
      1 tb Soy sauce
      4 tb Tomato sauce
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Tabasco sauce
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Calgary Suns'
  Great Meatloaf Recipe Search - Monday, June 4, 1990 Submitted by
  Richard Foxton Richard Foxton's Vegetarian Meatloaf Cover lentils
  with water and cook on a low boil for 1-1/2 hours or until tender.
  Mash lentils coarsely and combine with remaining ingredients. Pour
  into well greased loaf pan and bake, covered, at 350 F for 45
  minutes. Remove cover and continue to cook for 15 minutes or until
  loaf is firm to the touch. Serve with your favourite sauce.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Robin Howley's Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef - lean
      1    Whole wheat bread crumbs -
           From 1 slice
    1/2 c  Parmesan
    1/2 c  White wine - dry
      8    Slice ham, capicollo and
           Pepper salami
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Robin
  Howley, 2nd prize in the Calgary Sun's Great Meatloaf Recipe Search.
  Calgary Sun Monday, June 4, 1990 Robin Howley's Meatloaf - Second
  Prize oregano, basil, garlic, salt and pepper to taste
  
  Mix the ground beaf, spices, Parmesan and bread. Flatten mixture out
  on waxed paper and top with layers of the deli meat. Roll up like a
  jelly roll and bake in a loaf pan for 1-1/2 hours at 375F. Cover
  tightly with aluminum foil during the first half hour, then remove to
  finish cooking. To make sauce, drain pan juices into saucepan and add
  wine. Mix in 1 to 2 Tb of flour to thicken and serve with the loaf.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Something Different on a Budget Meatloaf
 Categories: Meatloaf
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 lb Ground chicken
    1/4 lb Ground pork
    1/4 lb Ground beef - lean
    1/4 c  Whole milk
      2    Eggs - lightly beaten
    1/2 c  Breadcrumbs
    1/2 c  Honey
           Pepper and salt to taste

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      2 tb Hot mustard
      1 ts Garlic - crushed
    1/4 c  Apricot jam
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: The Calgary
  Sun's Great Meatloaf Recipe Search, Monday, June 4, 1990 Submitted by
  Christine Barabe Something Different on a Budget Meatloaf-6th prize
  Mix chicken, pork, beef, eggs, breadcrumbs, milk, honey and salt and
  pepper. Shape into a loaf and put in pan. Mix glaze ingredients
  together and spread over top of loaf. Sprinkle with additional
  breadcrumbs. Bake in 325F oven for 1-1/2 hours.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Prime Rib - Blackened
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 10 1/2 lb Prime rib roast (4 bone)
    1/4 c  Black pepper
    1/4 c  Garlic powder
    1/4 c  Salt
      2    Onions, thinly sliced

MMMMM------------------SEASONING MIX (OPTIONAL-----------------------
      1 tb Plus 1 tsp, salt
      1 tb Plus 2 tsp, white pepper
      1 tb Plus 2 tsp, fennel seeds
      1 tb Plus 3/4 tsp, black pepper
  2 1/2 ts Dry mustard
  2 1/2 ts Ground cayenne pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Paul
  Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen Well, here it is Michelle. Don't say I
  didn't warn you. This recipe produces a volume of smoke that would
  rival a tire dump fire, but the aromas will drive everyone crazy.
  It's even worth having your neighbors and landlord upset with you.
  ;-) Cajun Prime Rib - Blackened
  
  Remove fat cap off top of meat (butcher can do this for you) and save.
  Place the roast, standing on the rib bones, in a very large roasting
  pan. Then with a knife make several dozen punctures through the
  silver skin so seasoning can permeate meat. Pour a very generous,
  even layer of black pepper over the top of the meat (the pepper
  should completely cover it); repeat with the garlic powder, then the
  salt, totally covering the preceding layer. Carefully arrange the
  onions in an even layer on top so as not to knock off the seasoning.
  Place the fat cap back on top. Refrigerate 24 hours.
  
  Bake ribs in a 550F oven until the fat is dark brown and crispy on
  top, about 35 minutes. Remove from oven and cool slightly.
  Refrigerate until well chilled, about 3 hours. (This is done so the
  juices will solidify and the steaks can be cooked rare.) Remove fat
  cap and disgard. With the blade of a large knife, scrape off the
  onions and as much of the seasonings as possible and discard. Then
  with a long knife, slice between ribs into 6 steaks (4 will have
  bones); trim the cooked surface of meat from the 2 pieces that were
  on the outside of the roast. Season and cook in your favorite way for
  steaks.
  
  TO BLACKEN THE STEAKS: Combine the ingredients of the seasoning mix
  thoroughly in a small bowl; you will have about 8 Tb. Sprinkle the
  steaks generously and evenly on both sides with the mix. using about
  4 ts on each steak and pressing it in with your hands.
  
  Heat a cast iron skillet over very high heat until it is beyond the
  smoking stage and you see white ash on the skillet bottom--at least
  10 minutes. (The skillet cannot be too hot for this method.) Place
  one steak in the hot skillet (cook only one side at a time) and cook
  over a very high heat until the underside starts to develop a heavy,
  black crust, about 2 to 3 minutes. Turn the steak over and cook until
  the underside is crusted like the first, about 2 to 3 minutes more.
  Repeat with the remaining steaks. Serve each steak while piping hot.
  
  (*NOTE*: If you don't have a commercial hood vent over your stove,
  this dish may smoke you out of the kitchen. It's worth it! But you
  can also cook it outdoors on a gas grill; a charcoal fire doesn't get
  hot enough to "blacken" the steak properly. (FHT-if you have a smoke
  detector in your house, you will be able to determine if it is
  working correctly.) This is NOT a dish to prepare in an apartment
  building with a central fire alarm system wired into your smoke
  detector. It causes great excitement! Also, you can be guaranteed you
  will meet your landlord.)
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Da Vinci
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Boneless Chicken Breasts,
           Cut into thin strips
      1    Oil
      2    Green peppers, sliced
      1    Onion, sliced thick, or cut
           Into chunks
      1    Fresh mushrooms
      1 lb Italian Sausages. Sliced
           Into rounds about 1/2"
           Thick.
      2 cl Garlic
           Chicken broth
           White wine
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marge Clark Chicken Da Vinci Saute Italian
  Sausage slices until done, remove from pan. In the grease from the
  sausages, with olive oil added as necessary, saute the garlic and
  green peppers. When peppers are about 1/2 done, add the onion. Cook
  until veggies are barely tender, still a trifle crisp, but not
  browned. Remove from pan and add to sausages. Add more oil, saute
  mushrooms until browned, remove and add to rest of the stuff. Last
  step, saute the chicken until done. Add everything else back into the
  pan, season generously with rosemary and oregano. Throwing a little
  basil in won't hurt it either. If the dish seems dry, add small
  amounts of either plain chicken broth or a broth & white wine mix. If
  you've added too much liquid, then thicken it with cornstarch.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bow Ties W/sausage, Tomatoes & Cream
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 lb Sweet Italian sausage,
           Casings removed, crumbled
    1/2 ts Dried red pepper flakes
    1/2 c  Diced onions
      3 cl Garlic, minced
      1 cn Italian plum tomatoes,
           Drained, coarsely chopped
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 ts Salt
     12 oz Bow tie pasta
      3 tb Minced fresh parsley
           Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephanie Dicamillo BOW TIES with SAUSAGE,
  TOMATOES and CREAM
  
  Heat oil in heavy large skillet over medium heat. Add sausage and
  pepper flakes. Cook until sausage is no longer pink, stirring
  frequently, about 7 minutes. Add onion and garlic to skillet and cook
  until onion is tender and sausage is light brown, stirring
  occasionally, about 7 minutes. Add tomatoes, cream and salt. Simmer
  until mixture thickens slightly, about 4 minutes.
  
  Cook pasta in large pot of boiling salted water until just tender but
  still firm to bite, stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Drain.
  
  Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Szechuan Cashew Chicken
 Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Chicken, Stir fry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Whole chicken breasts
           (about 2 lbs), boned and
           Skinned
      1    Egg white
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Thin soy sauce
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1    Green bell pepper
      1 cn (8 1/2 oz.) sliced bamboo
           Shoots, drained
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Cold water
      1 tb Thin soy sauce
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 c  Raw cashews
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 ts Ginger root chopped fine
      1 tb Hoisin sauce
      2 ts Chili paste
    1/4 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb Green onion tops, chopped
      1    Egg
 
  SZECHUAN CASHEW CHICKEN white, cornstarch, soy and white pepper in
  bowl and stir in chicken. Marinate in refrigerator for 20 minutes.
  
  Cut bell pepper into same sized pieces as chicken. Cut bamboo shoots
  into 3/4 inch lengths. Mix cornstarch, water and soy, set aside.
  
  Heat wok very hot, add and swirl to coat 2 T. oil. Add cashews, stir
  fry 1 minute or until light brown. Remove & drain on paper, sprinkle
  w. salt. Add chicken to wok, stir fry until white, remove.
  
  Add 2 T. oil and swirl to coat wok; add onion & ginger; stir fry until
  ginger is light brown. Return chicken to wok, stir; add bell pepper,
  stir, add bamboo shoots, stir. Add Hoisin sauce & chili paste; stir 1
  minute. Add chicken broth and bring to boil. Add cornstarch, water,
  soy sauce mixture; cook stirring about 20 seconds or until thickened.
  Return cashews, stir and add green onions.
  
  Serves 4 as part of meal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Eggplant in Olive Oil
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Eggplants (about 3 1/2 lbs.
           Total)
    1/2 c  Salt
      1 ts White vinegar
      1 ts Extra virgin olive oil [go
           For the greenest you can
           Find]
      3 c  Regular olive oil [all
           Extra virgin would be
           Prohibitive for too many]
    1/4 c  Chopped garlic
      1 ts Crushed red pepper
      1 tb Dried oregano OR
  2 1/2 tb Fresh oregano if available
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bill Birner Originally from: La Cucina di
  Andrea's New Orleans Extra Virgin Recipes 1. Slice the skins off the
  eggplants, and slice them about 1/4 inch thick from top to bottom.
  Then slice across to get pieces the size of French fries. Put the
  eggplant strips in a bowl and toss with the 1/2 cup of salt.
  
  2. Move the eggplant strips into a colander, arraying them in a
  relatively uniform layer up the sides. Put a bowl the same size as
  the colander inside the colander and weigh it down with three or so
  pounds of weight. [I find a foil covered common solid brick is a
  handy kitchen tool.] Put the entire apparatus in the sink to drain
  for 45 minutes. This will remove any bitterness from the eggplant.
  
  3. Rinse the salt off the eggplant with cold water. Drain it well,
  then SQUEEZE it dry. Put the eggplant in a bowl with the vinegar, and
  marinate it for 30 minutes. [It will return to shape like a wet
  sponge.]
  
  4. Drain the vinegar from the eggplant and squeeze it dry again. Put
  the eggplant into a bowl with all the other ingredients.
  
  5. Pour the contents into a canning jar. Make SURE there is enough
  olive oil to completely cover all the eggplant about 1/2 inch deep.
  Tightly seal and refrigerate the jar. Marinate for at least a week;
  The ideal time is actually three months, and the eggplant will keep
  getting better even after that.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Chowder #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Bacon
      1 lg Onion chopped
      2    Ribs celery peeled and
           Diced
      5 sm Can minced clams OR
      1 lg Can (about 51-oz)
      2 ts Seafood Chesapeake brand
           Bay-style seafood
           Seasoning
      1 qt (4 cup) half and half
           Divided
      2 tb Flour
 
  The day before you wish to serve the soup, fry the bacon until crisp
  and remove. In bacon drippings, saute onion, celery with leaves and
  potatoes for 10-15 minutes at medium heat. Add the minced clams, not
  clam soup but clams, with their juice. Crumble the bacon and add.
  Cover soup and simmer over low heat, stirring occasionally, for
  several hours - up to five hours won't hurt. Cool down and place in
  refrigerator at night. On the day of serving, skim grease off top.
  Transfer soup to larger pot. Heat soup until bubbling and add the
  seafood seasoning. Mix 2 cups of the half and half with the flour.
  Add to the chowder and stir until it bubbles again. Mix in remaining
  half and half and simmer, stirring constantly, until soup is desired
  thickness. Serve hot with garlic bread and a green salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Cherry Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Tart cherries canned, fresh
           Or frozen
    1/2 c  Wine vinegar
      3 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Drain cherries, if necessary, saving liquid. Puree cherries in
  blender or food processor. Add enough water to cherry liquid to make
  2 quarts. Add vinegar, cornstarch and cinnamon. Cook, stirring
  constantly until slightly thickened. Remove from heat. Add cream.
  Chill. Season with salt and/or sugar or more vinegar to taste. Serve
  garnished with sour cream for soup. For dessert, use whipped cream
  slightly sweetened and dusted with cinnamon or nutmeg as a garnish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Cherry Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Water
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Cinnamon stick
           Zest of 1 orange
      4 c  Pitted fresh tart cherries
           Or frozen unsweetened
           Cherries if using
           Unsweetened reduce sugar to
           1/4 cup
      1 tb Arrowroot/cornstarch
    1/3 c  Cream
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
 
  In a saucepan, combine water, sugar, cinnamon stick and orange zest;
  bring to a boil. Add cherries, reduce heat and simmer for 30 minutes.
  Remove cinnamon stick. Mix arrowroot with 2 Tb of the cherry mixture
  to make a paste and return to soup, stirring constantly while
  bringing to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer 30 minutes until thickened
  slightly. Mixture will thicken as is cools.  Chill. Before serving,
  stir in cream and wine. Serve in champagne or wine glasses to show
  off color. Garnish with a cinnamon stick and/or dollop of sour cream
  or yogurt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fisherman Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 lb Bacon cut in small pieces
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Diced raw potato
      1 cn (6.5-oz) chopped clams
           With liquid
    1/4 c  White wine
      1 c  Crab legs/imitation crab
      1 c  Shrimp
      1 c  Scallops halved/quartered
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Thyme
  2 1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/2 c  Instant mashed potatoes to
           Thicken
           Any other shellfish you
           Like
 
  In a heavy soup pot or kettle, brown the bacon with the paprika,
  onion and potato, sauteing until potato and onions are soft and bacon
  is cooked. Add the clams, wine, crab legs, shrimp, scallops and nay
  other seafood or fish. Season with salt and pepper, bay leaf and
  thyme. Stir in the milk and heat over low flame, stirring constantly.
  Do not allow mixture to boil. When seafood and fish are thoroughly
  heated through, thicken chowder by adding instant potatoes. Remove
  bay leaf and serve. Chowder may be prepared ahead, refrigerated, then
  re-heated in a crock pot or over very low heat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 tb Olive oil
      1 md Chopped onion
      3 cl Garlic, minced
      4 cn Minced clams
      4 c  Peeled and chopped tomatos
      1 c  Finely chopped carrots
      2 c  Finely chopped celery
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Paprika
      4    Bay leaves
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp
      1 lb Scallops
      2 cn Beef broth
      2 cn Chicken broth
      4 cn Water
      1 lb Cut bite size haddock
      1 lb Cut bite size cod
 
  Saute onion, garlic, olive oil in heavy pan until golden. Add clams,
  tomatos, carrots, celery, broth, water and spices. Simmer for about 1
  hour. Add fish and scallops. Let come to a boil. Add shrimp. Let it
  come to a boil till fish flakes with a fork.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homemade Cream Soup Substitute
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Instant non fat dry milk
    3/4 c  Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Instant low sodium
           Chicken bouillon
      2 ts Dried onion flakes
      1 ts Basil and thyme opt
      2 ts Pepper
 
  Combine dry milk, cornstarch, bouillon, onion flakes, basil, thyme and
  pepper. To make the equivalent of one can of soup, use the 1/3 cup of
  the mix and 1 1/2 cup water and cook until thickened. NOTE: Beef
  bouillon may be used in place of the chicken. Mushrooms may be added
  to the sauce for a mushroom soup base.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Low-Fat Crab Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 md Potatoes
      4 tb Margarine
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
    1/4 c  Green pepper
      4 tb Flour
      4 c  Skim milk
      2 cn (10 1/4-oz each) whole corn
           Drained
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Thyme
    1/8 ts Pepper
     16 oz Imitation crab
      2 tb Cooking sherry
 
  Peel, dice and cook potatoes, set aside. Melt margarine in a 6 quart
  pan, over medium heat. Add onion and green pepper, cook about 4
  minutes, stirring frequently. Add flour, cook about 1 minute,
  stirring constantly. Gradually add milk, using a whisk to prevent
  lumping and to blend the sauce. Add corn, salt, thyme and pepper.
  Reduce heat to low, cook until the mixture appears hot, but not
  bubbling. Cut crab into bite-size pieces and add to the sauce. Add
  potatoes. Heat again until hot, but not bubbly, stirring frequently.
  Just before serving, add cooking sherry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mellow Melon Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Cantaloupe pared seeded and
           Cubed about 2 lb
    1/2    Honeydew pared seeded and
           Cubed about 2 lb
    2/3 c  Sweet white wine
    1/4 ts Ground cardamom
           Chopped mint for garnish
           Optional
 
  Reserve a few melon cubes for garnish. In food processor or blender
  container, in batches, puree cantaloupe, honeydew, wine and cardamom;
  chill until ready to serve. At serving time, skim foam from top of
  soup; pour into soup bowls. Garnish with melon pieces and chopped
  mint.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Thin sliced onion
      1 c  Chopped green onion & tops
      3 cl Garlic fine chopped
    1/2 c  Fine chopped parsley
      1    Seeded and diced bell
           Pepper
      3 c  Tomato sauce
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Water
    1/4 ts Thyme crushed
    1/4 ts Rosemary crushed
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Fresh ground black
           Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      1 lb Crab/firm white fish cubed
      1 lb Shrimp
      6    Scallops/clams in the shell
 
  Combine onions and garlic and cook, covered, over low heat until soft,
  stirring frequently so they don't scorch. Add parsley, bell pepper,
  tomato sauce, wine, water, thyme, rosemary, salt, pepper and bay leaf
  and simmer, covered 1 hour. Add crab or white fish, shrimp, scallops
  or clams and cook, covered, for 8-10 minutes or until scallops or
  clam shells open. Discard any shells that do not open.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Tropical Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Strawberries
      1 c  Frozen cherries
      4 c  Frozen strawberry juice
           Diluted
      2 tb Clover honey
    1/2 c  Fresh lime juice
    1/2 c  Sweet white wine
    1/2 c  Light cream
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Cold water
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  Mix cornstarch in 2 Tb cold water. Simmer strawberry juice, honey,
  lime juice and white wine until mixture thickens. Stir occasionally
  as it is cooling. Put strawberries and cream with chilled mixture and
  blend until smooth. Strain through a strainer. Mix in thawed
  cherries. Add a dollop of sour cream to each serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Burger Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ground beef
      2 c  Water
      1 cn (16-oz) stewed tomatos
      1 cn (8-oz) tomato sauce
      1 pk (10-oz) frozen mixed
           Vegetables
    1/4 c  Dry onion soup mix
      1 ts Sugar
 
  In large saucepan, brown ground beef. Drain off excess fat. Stir in
  water, stewed tomatos, tomato sauce, vegetables, onion soup mix and
  sugar. Bring to boiling. Cook and simmer 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Weight Watchers Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Can V-8 juice
      1    V-8 can water
      1 lb Hamburger
    1/2 sm Head cabbage
      3    Cubes beef bouillon
      1 pk Frozen mixed vegetables
 
  Brown hamburger. Shred or chop cabbage. Add cabbage to hamburger. Add
  V-8 juice and 1 can water. Add bouillon cubes and mixed vegetables.
  Simmer, for about 2 hours until cabbage is tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caesar Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Very fresh egg yolk
    1/4 ts Salt
      6 tb Divided olive oil
      1 cl Garlic, crushed
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Dijon style mustard
      3 tb Apple cider vinegar
           Fresh ground black pepper
      1 c  Homemade croutons ****
      3 tb Fresh grated/hand
           Shredded Parmesan cheese
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice/
           Concentrate
      2    Heads romaine lettuce
           Inside leaves only ***
 
  *** The lettuce is deribbed and torn into bite size pieces, rinsed and
  thoroughly patted or spun dry in a salad spinner, you may need 3 heads
  large enough for a big salad.**** Homemade bread in 1-inch cubes
  sauteed in butter until golden brown, served warm on chilled crisp
  green. In a large salad bowl, combine the egg yolk, lemon juice, salt
  and 1 Tb of the olive oil. Whisk in garlic, worcestershire and
  mustard and blend until thoroughly combined. With a gentle rolling
  motion, incorporate the romaine. Add the vinegar and the remaining
  olive oil in the proportions of 1 part vinegar to 2 parts oil, until
  you have the consistency and flavor you desire. Roll the salad again,
  adding black pepper to taste. The salad can be chilled at this point,
  but not for too long. Just before serving, finish by placing warm
  croutons in the center of the salad and the Parmesan in a ring around
  the circumference. Roll gently to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Slices dense and chewy
           Bread
    1/3 c  Melted butter
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1    Head romaine lettuce
      1    Quarter jar Durkee's famous
           Sandwich and salad sauce
           With mayonnaise
      4 tb Oil and vinegar dressing
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
 
  For the croutons, tear up the bread or cube it. Combine the melted
  butter and garlic powder. Pour over bread cubes and toss to cover.
  Spread cubes on a cookie sheet and bake 10 minutes in an oven
  preheated to 350 degrees, turning once. Cool. Meanwhile, wash the
  romaine leaves, using only the most tender inside ones, and dry
  thoroughly. Tear into bite size pieces and place in large bowl.
  Drizzle with dressing to taste, toss carefully, and serve garnished
  with Parmesan cheese and croutons.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three Lettuce Chiffonade
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Head radicchio about 1/4 lb
           Core removed
      2    Head bibb lettuce 1/4 lb ea
    1/2    Head iceburg lettuce about
           1/4 lb core removed
      1    Green bell pepper 1/4 lb
           Cored
    1/4 c  Olive oil
  3 1/2 tb Red-wine vinegar
           Salt and fresh ground
           Pepper
 
  Rinse, drain and pat dry the radicchio, bibb and iceburg lettuce.
  Stack radicchio leaves and cut into very fine shreds. There should be
  about 2 cups. Put shreds in a large bowl. Repeat with bibb and
  iceburg lettuce. There should be about 2 cups of each. Add to the
  bowl. Cut pepper lengthwise into thin strips. There should be about 1
  cup. Add to the bowl. Add oil, vinegar, salt and pepper and blend
  well. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Watercress Goat Cheese Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Bunch watercress washed and
           Dried
    1/4 c  Pecan halves
      4 oz Mild goat cheese well
           Chilled
 
  On each of 4 salad plates, place some of the watercress and pecans.
  Cut goat cheese into 8 slices. Place 2 slices on each salad. Arrange
  2 goat cheese slices on each salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carmel Apple Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Container (8-oz) frozen
           Whipped topping thawed
      1 pk Dry instant butterscotch
           Pudding
      1 cn (8-oz) crushed pineapple
           With juice
      3 c  Diced apples
      1 c  Dry roasted nuts
      1 c  Marshmallows
 
  Mix cool whip, butterscotch pudding and crushed pineapple with juice.
  Add apples, roasted nuts and marshmallows. Keep in refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: English Walnut Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Bunch red leaf lettuce
      1    Bunch watercress
    1/2 lb Arugula
      1 c  Walnut halves

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Walnut oil
    1/2 c  Good quality olive oil
    1/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Put greens in a bowl, sprinkle with walnuts, cover and chill. Combine
  oils, vinegar, salt, sugar and pepper and beat until thick. Let stand
  at room temperature, then beat again before tossing with salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit and Shells Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    (7-oz) package shells/rings
           Uncooked
      1 cn (15-oz) fruit cocktail
           Drained
      1 md Sliced banana
      1 md Apple cored and chopped
      2 c  Whipped topping
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  Prepare shells according to package directions; drain. In medium bowl,
  combine shells, fruit cocktail, banana and apple. In small bowl, blend
  whipped topping and cinnamon. Stir into salad mixture. Cover, chill
  thoroughly. Stir gently before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Cut up apples
      3    Cut up pears
      1    Cut up orange
           Seedless grapes cut in half
      1 cn Crushed/tidbit pineapple
      2    Cut up peaches
    1/2 c  Sugar optional
           Non dairy whipped topping
           Thawed
           Sliced bananas
 
  Mix apples, pears, orange, grapes, pineapple, peaches and sugar
  together. Top fruit salad with non-dairy whipped topping then with
  sliced bananas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Salad #2
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Cubed cantaloupe melon
      1    Cubed honeydew melon
      2    Baskets sliced strawberries
      2    Peeled & wedged oranges
    1/2    Cubed watermelon (optional)
      1 lb Seedless grapes
      4    Cubed peaches
      1    Lemon juiced OR
      1 c  Yogurt, any fruit flavor
 
  Stir fruit pieces together by hand. Squeeze juice of lemon over all,
  or stir in yogurt. For a special occasion: combine 1/8 cup pure maple
  syrup with one ounce vodka and pour over salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Salad W/dried Cherry Vinaigrette
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Dried cherry vinegar
      4 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
      1 c  Dried cherries
      1 sm Granny smith apple thin
           Sliced
      1 sm Orange peeled and cut
           Into sections
    1/4 c  Whole salted cashews
  1 1/2 c  Belgian endive
  1 1/2 c  Spinach
  1 1/2 c  Boston lettuce
 
  For dressing whisk together vinegar, oil, salt and pepper. Arrange
  greens on serving plate, add cherries, fruits and cashews. Serve with
  vinaigrette dressing. DRIED CHERRY VINEGAR - Combine 1 cup of dried
  cherries with 2 cup of white wine vinegar in a glass container. Cover
  and allow to steep for 2 days at room temperature. Heat just to
  boiling point, strain through cheesecloth. Cool and store in tightly
  sealed container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruited Rice Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Uncooked long grain rice
      1 cn (11-oz) mandarin oranges
           Juice reserved
      1 c  Seedless red grapes each
           Cut in half
    1/3 c  Golden raisins
    1/3 c  Sliced natural almonds
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      1 ts Dijon style mustard
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Lettuce leaves
 
  Prepare rice according to package directions for microwave cooking.
  Refrigerate rice uncovered until cooled, about 15 minutes. Meanwhile,
  in large serving bowl, combine orange segments, grapes, raisins and
  almonds. In small bowl, whisk together 2 Tb reserved juice, oil,
  vinegar, mustard, parsley, salt and pepper. Add rice to fruit
  mixture. Pour salad dressing over salad; toss. Garnish with lettuce
  leaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glorified Pasta Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Egg
      1 cn (20-oz) crushed pineapple
           Drained reserving 2 Tb
           Liquid
      3 tb Lemon juice from
           Concentrate
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Butter/margarine
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 cn (11-oz) mandarin oranges
           Drained and halved
      1 cn (8-oz) seedless grapes
           Drained and halved
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
  2 1/2 c  Whipping cream whipped
    1/4 c  Finely chopped maraschino
           Cherries
      1 c  Acini di pepe/rosmarina/
           Rings uncooked
 
  Prepare acini de pepe according to package directions; drain. In
  small, heavy saucepan, beat eggs with wire whisk until foamy. Stir in
  reserved pineapple liquid, lemon juice, sugar, butter and salt. Cook
  over low heat until mixture thickens and coats a metal spoon,
  stirring constantly, about 2 minutes. Cool to room temperature. In
  large bowl, combine acini de pepe, pineapple, oranges, grapes and
  marshmallows; mix well. Fold in egg mixture, then whipped cream.
  Cover; chill thoroughly. Stir gently before serving. Garnish with
  cherries. Refrigerate leftovers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lime Waldorf Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Cored and cut in half firm
           Ripe bosc/anjou pears
      2    Cored and cut in 1/2-in
           Pieces celery stalks
      2    Tart green apples cut
           Lengthwise then in 1/2-in
           Pieces
      2    Peeled and cut in 1/4-in
           Dice carrots
      1 c  Walnut halves
      1 c  Golden raisins
           Lime mayonnaise
      1 tb Chopped fresh mint
      2 tb Sunflower seeds
 
  Mix water and lemon juice in a large bowl. Toss in pears and apples;
  let rest for 10 minutes. This will prevent discoloration. Drain
  fruits, discarding liquid, pat dry and return them to bowl. Add
  celery, carrots, walnuts and raisins. Toss with lime mayonnaise.
  Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour. Before serving, mix well and
  sprinkle top with mint and sunflower seeds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melon Medley Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Small cantaloupe balls
      2 c  Small honeydew melon balls
      2 c  Small watermelon balls
      2 c  Small crenshaw melon balls
      1 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Chopped pistachio/almonds

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Light sour cream
      2 tb Honey
      1 tb Minced fresh mint
           Leaves
      1 tb Triple sec liqueur
           Lettuce leaves optional
 
  Combine cantaloupe, honeydew, watermelon and crenshaw balls and toss
  lightly to blend. Chill in plastic bags until ready to serve. At
  serving time, drain juice from melon balls and reserve for another
  use. Toss melon balls with celery and nuts. Add dressing and toss
  again. Serve in scooped out melon halves, if desired, or in lettuce
  lined salad bowls. DRESSING: Combine sour cream, honey, mint leaves
  and liqueur, blending well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minty Fresh Fruity Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 md Cantaloupe pared seeded
           Cut into chunks
      1 pt Fresh/thawed frozen
           Blueberries
    1/2 pt Strawberries washed
           Hulled and sliced
    1/4 c  Packed mint leaves cut
           Into thin strips
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Honey
 
  In large serving bowl, combine melon, berries, mint, orange juice and
  honey; lightly toss. Cover and chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Morning Fruit Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 md Size ripe cantaloupe
      2    Ripe kiwi fruit
      1 pt Ripe strawberries
    1/2 pt Fresh raspberries/
           Blackberries
      3 tb Chopped fresh mint
           Plus 4 whole sprigs for
           Garnish
    1/4 c  Fresh squeeze orange
           Juice
 
  Scoop out cantaloupe with melonballer and place balls in a bowl. You
  should have about 2 cups. Pour any cantaloupe juice in bowl. Peel
  kiwi. Cut crosswise into thin slices, then quarter the slices. Add to
  cantaloupe. Set aside 4 of the most attractive strawberries for
  garnish. Hull and slice enough strawberries lengthwise to make 1 cup,
  place in the bowl. Add raspberries. Sprinkle fruit salad with chopped
  mint leaves and drizzle with orange juice. Toss gently. Refrigerate,
  covered for 1/2 hour for flavors to blend together. Divide salad
  among 4 bowls. Garnish each with a whole strawberry and a sprig of
  mint.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange and Black Olive Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Naval oranges
           Handful of black olives
           Packed in oil
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Powdered sugar
      2 tb Orange flower water,
           Optional
 
  With a sharp knife, remove the peel, including membrane, and slice
  each orange into 4-5 slices. Arrange slices overlapping on a platter
  lined with lettuce leaves or place slices in a bowl. Add the olives.
  Sprinkle with lemon juice, salt, sugar and orange flower water, if
  using. Set aside for 30 minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange and Radish Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Long white radish, about
           1 lb in weight, or red ones
      3    Navel oranges
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts Salt or to taste
      1 ts Powdered sugar
      2 tb Orange flower water,
           Optional
 
  Peel and grate the white radish or trim and thinly slice the red ones.
  Remove the orange peel, including white membrane, with a sharp knife
  and cut the fruit into 1-inch pieces, saving any juice. Gently mix the
  radishes, oranges, orange and lemon juice, olive oil, salt, sugar and
  orange flower water, if using.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple and Cheese Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Cheddar cheese
      1 cn 20-oz pineapple chunks
      6 lg Lettuce leaves
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
 
  Drain pineapple chunks. Cut cheese into 1/2 inch cubes. Arrange cheese
  cubes on lettuce leaves. Top with pineapple chunks and mayonnaise.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn 12-oz cool whip
      1 cn Condensed sweet milk
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      1 cn Crushed pineapple
 
  Thaw the cool whip. Mix 1/3 cup of lemon juice into 1 can of condensed
  sweetened milk until it is the consistency of sour cream. Stir milk
  mixture into cool whip, add pineapple. Cool in refrigerator for 1/2
  hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Salsa
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (20-oz) crushed drained
           Pineapple
      1 sm Red bell pepper seeded
           And chopped
      2 tb Red onion
      1    Fresh jalapeno pepper
           Seeded and minced
  1 1/2 tb Chopped cilantro
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  In medium serving bowl, combine all ingredients. Cover and chill until
  ready to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Romaine and Tangelo Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Honey and poppy seed
           Dressing
           Small inner leaves from 2
           Large heads romaine lettuce
           (about 30 leaves)
      1 c  Peeled tangelo/mandarin
           Orange segments
      6 tb Pecan halves/sliced
           Almonds
 
  Divide romaine leaves equally among 6 individual plates, top equally
  with tangelos; sprinkle with pecans, pass dressing to spoon over
  salads.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Fruit Compote
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Maple syrup
      2 c  Water
  1 1/2 lb Halved & pitted plums
      1    Basket boysenberries
      1    Basket raspberries
      2    Peeled & sectioned naval
           Oranges
           Fresh mint leaves
      1    Peeled & sectioned
           Grapefruit
    1/2 lb Green seedless grapes
    1/3 c  Wine (plum is good)
           Fresh mint leaves
 
  In a saucepan, bring maple syrup and water to boil; simmer for two
  minutes. Reduce heat to low simmer and poach plums (submerge them in
  hot water) for 30 seconds. Transfer plums with slotted spoon to the
  serving bowl. Poach boysenberries and raspberries for 15 seconds, and
  then transfer them to the serving bowl. Poach orange and grapefruit
  sections 1 minute, and remove them to the serving dish. Poach grapes
  for 15 seconds, and transfer them to the serving dish. Stir wine into
  the syrup and simmer two minutes. Let wine syrup cool; spoon over
  fruit. Sprinkle compote with fresh mint leaves. Ladle into individual
  bowls. May be served alone, or with ice cream or yogurt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut Orange Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 lg Oranges (navel)
      1 ts Honey
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 lb Mixed fresh greens (half
           Spinach and half romaine
           Works best)
    1/2 c  Thin sliced purple onion
      1 c  Thin sliced radishes
      1 c  Toasted walnut halves chop
           Into smaller pieces if you
           Wish
      3 tb Quality olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  At least 1 1/2 hours before serving, peel and section the oranges.
  With a serrated knife or citrus knife, remove the membrane lining
  from each orange segment. Place oranges in a bowl and squeeze all
  excess juice from the remaining lining over the oranges. Discard any
  membrane and pick out seeds, if necessary. Drizzle honey and sprinkle
  cinnamon over oranges, cover and let stand at room temperature for at
  least 1 hour. Clean greens and pat dry. Break into bite size pieces
  and toss well with onions, radishes and nuts in a large bowl. Drizzle
  olive oil over salad and toss to distribute. Season to taste with
  salt and freshly ground pepper. Just before serving, add the oranges
  and all their liquid. Mix well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Weight Watchers Apple Cheddar Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 sm Red apples quartered thinly
           Sliced
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 c  Thin sliced celery
      6 oz Natural mild cheddar flavor
           Cheese cut into small cubes
    1/4 c  Reduce calorie mayonnaise
           Dash salt and pepper
           Lettuce
 
  Place apples in small bowl; toss with lemon juice. Add celery and
  next 4 ingredients; toss to coat. Serve on lettuce lined plate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whipped Delight and Fruit Delight
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Whipping cream
      1 tb Sugar
      1 cn 16-oz pineapple tidbits
      1 cn 16-oz black cherries
      1 lg Banana sliced
      1 c  Dates chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts optional
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
 
  Beat whipping cream sweetened with sugar until firm. Just before
  serving, gently fold in remaining ingredients and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 3-Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn 16-oz green beans
      1 cn 16-oz kidney beans
      1 cn 16-oz wax beans
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Vinegar
    1/2 c  Salad oil
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
 
  Drain the three kinds of beans and place them in a bowl. Add all
  ingredients EXCEPT the onion. Mix well and chill several hours. Add
  1/2 cup onion before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arugula and Red Onion Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Arugula leaves
      1 md Size red onion cut into
           Thin slices
      1 ts Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Red-wine vinegar
      3 tb Olive oil
           Salt and fresh ground
           Pepper
 
  Pick over the arugula leaves and remove and discard any tough stems.
  Rinse and drain the leaves. Pat dry. Place the leaves in a salad
  bowl. Add the onion slices, garlic, vinegar, oil, salt and pepper.
  Toss and blend well. Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus Shrimp Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp shelled and cleaned
  1 1/2 lb Cleaned asparagus
      1    Thin lemon slice
    1/4 c  Sliced green onion
      2 tb Minced parsley
      1 md Diced tomato
           Lettuce leaves
      1 oz Grated Monterey jack cheese

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      4 tb Vinegar
    1/4 ts Salt
           Dash cayenne
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 tb Parsley
      1 tb Basil
      1 tb Oregano
      1 tb Chervil
 
  Cook shrimp; drain and set aside. Cook asparagus until crisp- tender;
  drain well. Place shrimp, asparagus and lemon slice in mixing bowl.
  Pour herb dressing over all, cover and chill well, stirring once or
  twice. Combine onion, parsley and tomato. To serve, drain shrimp
  asparagus mixture and arrange on plate with lettuce and cheese. Serve
  with tomato mixture. DRESSING: Combine oil, vinegar, salt, cayenne,
  pepper, parsley, basil, chervil and oregano.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beet & Cucumber Salad W/orange Dressing
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Head leafy lettuce
      1    Head romaine lettuce
      1    Long European cucumber
      1    Fresh beet (8-oz)

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      3 tb Orange juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Honey
      2 ts Dijon style mustard
      2 ts Orange grated rind
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Vegetable oil
 
  Separate the head of leafy green lettuce into individual leaves. Wash
  and blot dry with paper toweling. Gather half the leaves together and
  then cut crosswise into 1 inch wide strips. Repeat with the romaine
  lettuce. Alternate whole leaves of the lettuce and romaine around the
  inside edge of a large salad bowl. Fill the center with shredded
  lettuce and romaine. Cover with damp paper toweling. Refrigerate
  until serving time. Scrub and cut the cucumber in half lengthwise;
  cut crosswise into thin half-moons. Place in plastic bag and
  refrigerate. Combine orange juice, lemon juice, honey, mustard,
  orange rind and salt in small bowl. Whisk in oil until well blended.
  Refrigerate until ready to use. Pour about half the dressing over
  lettuce strips; toss to coat. Arrange cucumbers in circles in center;
  arrange shredded beet around cucumber. Serve with remaining dressing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Berried Spinach Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Whole skinned boned chicken
           Breasts about 1 1/4 lb
      3 tb Vegetable oil divide
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    10-oz bag spinach washed
           Dried and stems removed
      1 pt Strawberries hulled and
           Cut in half
      1 sm Sliced thin red onion
      2 tb Cider vinegar
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Poppy seeds
 
  Cut chicken into 1 inch cubes. In large skillet over medium heat,
  saute chicken in 1 Tb oil, until chicken is lightly browned and
  cooked through, about 5 minutes; add 1/4 ts salt and pepper. With
  slotted spoon, remove chicken to large bowl; cool.  Remove and
  reserve pan dripping in skillet. Tear spinach into bite size pieces.
  Place in bowl with chicken. Add the cut strawberries and onion. In
  small bowl, stir together vinegar, sugar, poppy seeds, the remaining
  2 Tb oil, and the remaining 1/4 ts salt and the reserved pan dripping
  until well blended. Pour over salad and toss lightly to combine.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bitter Greens Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2    Head chicory
    1/2    Bunch arugula
      1 sm Head radicchio
    1/4 c  Bottled Italian style
           Salad dressing
 
  Wash and dry greens under cold running water. Remove and discard
  stems from all greens. Dry greens well. Place radicchio on serving
  platter. Tear greens into bite size pieces; place on top of
  radicchio. Just before serving, pour the Italian style dressing over
  salad and toss.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brazilian Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2    Head mixed romaine and
           Leaf lettuce washed well,
           Gently patted dry
      3    Tomatos peeled and sliced
           Thin
      1 lg Onion sliced thin
      1 cn (14-oz) hearts of palm
           Drained and sliced
      1 cn (6-oz) drained black olives
      1 cn (15-oz) drained garbanzo
           Beans
           Fresh chopped parsley to
           Garnish
           Olive oil
 
  Line serving platter with large lettuce leaves. Break the remaining
  lettuce into bite size pieces and place over the top of the large
  leaves. Arrange tomato slices, overlapping down the center of the
  lettuce bed, tucking onion slices in between the tomatos. Arrange
  sliced hearts of palm next to the tomatos. Add rows of olives and
  garbanzos. Serve with a sprinkle of parsley and olive oil or other
  favorite dressing on the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli and Avocado Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 sm Bunch broccoli
           Salt to taste
      1 lg Ripe avocado
    1/2    Lemon
      1 ts Dijon style mustard
    1/2 ts Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
           Freshly ground black pepper
           To taste
      3 tb Olive oil
 
  Cut the broccoli into florets. If the pieces are large, cut the stems
  in half. Rinse and drain them. Reserve the stems for another use. Drop
  broccoli into boiling salted water to cover. Bring to a boil and cook
  2 minutes. Drain and run the broccoli briefly under cold water to
  cool. Drain again and chill. Cut the avocado in half. Peel each half
  and remove the pit. Cut each half into 8 lengthwise strips. Squeeze
  the lemon half over the strips to prevent discoloration. Arrange the
  broccoli and the avocado alternately on each of 4 serving plates.
  Blend the mustard, garlic, vinegar, pepper and oil, adding salt if
  needed, in a bowl with a wire whisk. Pour over the broccoli and
  avocado. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Mushroom Bulgur Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt optional
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Celery seed
      1 ts Onion powder OR
      2 ts Onion flakes
    1/3 c  Cider or wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Water
      1 c  Bulgur (cracked wheat)
      1    Head broccoli cut into
           Florets
      1 lb Mushroom thin sliced
      2 tb Shredded/finely chopped
           Green onion tops
 
  In saucepan, combine sugar, salt, paprika, celery seed, onion powder
  or onion flakes, vinegar and water and bring to boiling. Pour over
  bulgur and allow to steep for 45-60 minutes. Toss bulgur mixture with
  the mushrooms and broccoli and chill for 2 hours or overnight. Serve
  cold, sprinkled with green onion tops for garnish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Raisin Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Head broccoli washed
           Trimmed use florets only no
           Stems and drained dry
      1 c  Chopped red sweet onion
    1/2 c  White raisins
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
    1/2 lb Bacon fried crisp and
           Crumbled

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sugar
 
  In a large bowl, combine the broccoli florets, onions, raisins,
  pecans and bacon. In a small bowl, combine the dressing ingredients,
  the vinegar, mayonnaise and sugar. Mix well and pour over broccoli
  mixture. Toss gently, refrigerate, covered, overnight and toss gently
  the next day when ready to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mashed Potatoes with Garlic
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Tomatos (peeled/cubed)
      1    Head garlic
      5 tb Heavy cream
      4 tb Butter at room temperature
      1    Egg yolk
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman MASHED POTATOES WITH GARLIC
  ALA THE SILVER PALATE 1. Cook potatoes until tender, about 20
  minutes. While the potatoes are cooking, separate the cloves of
  garlic, place them in a small saucepan, cover with water and let
  simmer until very soft, about 15 minutes.
  
  2. Drain the potatoes, put back in pan, shake over flame until dry.
  Set aside.
  
  3. Slip the skins off the garlic and put in food processor with cream.
  Puree.
  
  4. Transfer the potatoes to the bowl of electric mixer, and add the
  pureed garlic, butter, egg yolk, and pepper/salt to taste. Beat until
  just smooth and serve.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Sour Cherry Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     12 tb Unsalted butter
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Sifted flour with 1 t. salt
      6    Eggs, separated
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 cn Sour cherries, drained
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman CHOCOLATE SOUR CHERRY CAKE
  Preheat oven to 350. Melt chocolate and butter together, let cool
  slightly. Beat egg yolks and sugar until lemon colored. Add chocolate
  and egg whites. Pour into a buttered 10-1/2" spring form pan.
  Sprinkle drained cherries evenly on top. Bake for 55 minutes. Cool
  for 15 minutes. Run knife around edge to loosen. Let cool completely
  and remove from pan.
  
  Servings: 10
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef and Macaroni
 Categories: Beef, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Onion Chopped
      2 tb Beef Base
    1/3 c  Celery Chopped
      1 ts Dry Parsley
    1/3 c  Green Pepper Chopped
      1 cl Garlic Minced
    3/4 c  Dry Macaroni
      1 ts Sugar
     28 oz Crushed Tomatos
    1/2 ts Red Pepper
    3/4 lb Hamburger
    1/2 c  Dry American Cheese
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman BEEF & MACARONI Place
  hamburger in large skillet. Separate into small pieces and saute till
  meat is brown. Remove meat from skillet and drain off most liquid.
  
  Place pasta in boiling water for 8 minutes and drain. Add 1-tbl olive
  oil to skillet and saute onion, celery, peppers, and garlic till soft.
  
  Add cooked pasta, hamburg, tomatos, bouillon, parsley, sugar and
  pepper. Toss ingredients. Simmer slowly for 20-minutes while stirring
  frequently.
  
  Serve when flavors have blended. A small bowl of dry American cheese
  should accompany the meal with crusty bread, and green salad.
  
  Serves [4]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Loaf
 Categories: Meatloaf, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Lentils cooked
      1 md Onion, peeled and sliced
      1    Tomato, diced
  1 1/2 c  Bread crumbs
      1 tb Grated Parmesan (fresh
           Please!)
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 tb Corn or peanut oil
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Lentil Loaf Oil for loaf pan
  
  Saute onion and tomato in oil until onion is golden and tomato is
  soft. In a bowl mash up the cooked lentils a little. Add onion &
  tomato; mix in garlic powder, salt, milk, cheese, and 1 cup of the
  bread crumbs. Preheat oven to 350. Glop mixture into oiled loaf pan,
  sprinkle remaining crumbs on top and bake for 1/2 hour or until done.
  You could add a Tbs. of ketchup...you could put just about anything
  in there (celery, bell pepper...) Tonight I'm going to beat one egg
  and mix it in to make the loaf stick together better. And maybe add a
  touch of ketchup or BBQ sauce or something. You can serve with any
  sauce or gravy or anything.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Turkey Dinner
 Categories: Poultry, Turkey
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground raw turkey
      1 cn Whole berry cranberry sauce
      1 c  Cracker meal
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Egg Beaters (= 2 eggs)
      2 ts Instant chicken bouillon
      2 tb Margarine
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Quick turkey dinner made
  with ground raw turkey. QUICK TURKEY DINNER Parsley for garnish
  
  Combine turkey, cracker meal and Egg Beaters in small bowl until well
  blended. Shape into 8 oval patties.
  
  Melt margarine in large skillet over med-high heat. Brown patties on
  both sides. Blend cranberry sauce, water and bouillon; pour over
  patties. Bring to boil. Reduce heat, cover and simmer until done,
  about 20 minutes.
  
  Arrange patties on serving plate, spoon sauce over them and garnish
  with parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Wine Substitutes
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      1 ts Instant beef bouillon (I
           Looked it up and it still
           Looks wrong)
      1 tb Vinegar
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Cheryl Johns Substitutes for 3/4 cup Red
  Wine.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Sausage
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Italian sausage, cut into
           Links
      1    Oil
      1 sm Onion, diced
      1 lg Green pepper, diced
      3 lg Cloves garlic, sliced
     16 cn Tomato sauce or whole
           Tomatos, smooshed
      6 cn Tomato paste
      1 ts Sugar (to cut acidity of
           Tomatos)
      8 oz Red wine
      1 lg Bay leaf
           Plenty oregano, basil,
           Marjoram
           Pinch each thyme, rosemary
           Dashes ground fennel, red
           Pepper flakes (optional)
           Lots Parmesan cheese
      6 oz Fresh mushrooms, 1/2'd or
           1/4'd
      1    2 slices American cheese (I
           Know, heretical but good)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng SPAGHETTI SAUCE WITH ITALIAN
  SAUSAGE
  
  In a dutch oven, brown the sausages well (still in their casings) in a
  little olive oil. Use tongs to remove sausage to top of pot lid.
  Drain off fat if necessary, leaving about 1 T in pot. Toss in onion,
  green pepper and garlic and stir to coat, scraping up the brown bits
  from bottom of pot. Let cook for about 2 minutes, just 'til the onion
  and pepper begin to soften (do not brown). Return sausage to pot and
  stir in tomatos or sauce, paste, sugar, wine, seasonings and
  Parmesan. Simmer for 45-60 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, saute mushrooms in a dab of butter, dash of olive oil,
  sprinkle of marjoram or basil and paprika. Add the mushrooms and any
  juice in the pan to the saucepan during last 15 minutes of cooking.
  Add optional American cheese a few minutes before serving, let melt &
  stir in. This really mellows out the sauce.
  
  Tips: You can brown pork shoulder blades or spareribs along with the
  sausage. Gives a great flavor and provides a 2nd meat course if you're
  having company. Use more or less wine, depending on whether you're
  using whole tomatos or sauce. Just aim for a nice thick sauce.
  Leftovers make great sausage sandwiches. I freeze mine a lot for
  quick meals later.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yankee Maple Corn Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Yellow cornmeal
      1 tb Baking powder
    3/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Light brown sugar
      1 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Maple syrup
    3/4    Stick butter, melted
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng YANKEE MAPLE CORN MUFFINS Mix
  flour, cornmeal, baking powder and salt in a large bowl. Whisk eggs
  and sugar in another bowl until smooth. Add milk and syrup and whisk.
  Pour over dry ingredients and add 4 T of the melted butter. Fold
  until moistened. Fill muffin cups and bake 25-30 mins. at 350. Brush
  tops with remaining 2 T of butter.
  
  Makes one dozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Clafoutti
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 c  Blueberries
      1 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  Flour
           Dash salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng Originally from: "Victory
  Garden" BLUEBERRY CLAFOUTTI Grease & flour a suitable baking dish.
  Add berries. Combine milk, sugar, eggs, salt & vanilla. Add flour and
  beat with electric mixer until smooth. Pour over berries. Bake at 375
  for 45 minutes or until golden & puffy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Croutons with Thyme
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cl Garlic, halved
      2 tb Butter, unsalted
    1/2 ts Thyme, dried, crumbled
      2 c  Bread, white, 1/2-inch
           Cubes
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: Gourmet
  magazine Garlic Croutons with Thyme
  
  Rub a small heavy skillet with the cut side of the garlic and in it
  cook the garlic in the butter over moderately low heat, stirring, for
  5 minutes, or until it is golden. Discard the garlic, add the bread
  cubes and the thyme, and cook the croutons, tossing them, until they
  are toasted lightly. Sprinkle the croutons with salt to taste and
  transfer them to paper towels to drain.
  
  Makes about a cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Large Garlic Croutons
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cl Garlic, large
    1/3 c  Olive oil
     12    French bread, slices
           Salt, pinch
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: The
  Ultimate Salad Dressing Book by Claire Stancer Large Garlic Croutons
  Crush the garlic with a pinch of salt. Whisk in olive oil. Brush on
  12 1/4 ea 4-inch thick slices stale French bread. Bake in a preheated
  325 degree oven until golden, about 15 minutes. Tear into smaller
  pieces, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parsley Croutons
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Butter, unsalted
      3    Bread, white, slices
      2 tb Parsley, fresh, minced
           Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: Bon Appetit
  magazine Parsley Croutons Cut bread slices into 1/2-in cubes. Melt
  butter in a heavy large skillet over medium heat. Add bread cubes.
  Season with salt. Cook until light brown, stirring frequently, about
  5 minutes. Stir in parsley. Drain on paper towels. (Can be prepared 6
  hours ahead. Cool completely. Cover tightly.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Uno's Deep Pan Pizza
 Categories: Italian, Pizza
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 c  Warm tap  water (110-115)
      1 ts Active dry yeast
  3 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Coarse ground cornmeal
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 lb Mozzarella, sliced
      1 lb Sausage, removed from the
           Casing and crumbled
      1 cn Whole tomatos, drained and
           Coarsely crushed
      2 c  Cloves, peeled and minced
      3 ts Dried oregano,OR
      5    Fresh basil leaves,
           Shredded
      4 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
  Pour the warm water into a large mixing bowl and dissolve the yeast
  with a fork. Add 1 cup of flour, all of the cornmeal, salt, and, and
  vegetable oil. Mix well with a spoon. Continue stirring in the rest
  of the flour 1/2 cup at a time, until the dough comes away from the
  sides of the bowl. Flour your hands and the work surface and kneed
  the ball of dough until it is no longer sticky.
  
  Let the dough rise in an oiled bowl, sealed with plastic wrap, for 45
  to 60 minutes in a warm place, until it is doubled in bulk. Punch it
  down and kneed it briefly. Press it into an oiled 15-inch deep dish
  pizza pan, until it comes 2 inches up the sides and is even on the
  bottom of the pan. Let the dough rise 15-20 minutes before filling.
  
  Preheat the oven to 500 degrees.
  
  While the dough is rising, prepare the filling. Cook the crumbled
  sausage until it is no longer pink, drain it of it's excess fat.
  Drain and chop the tomatos.
  
  When the dough has finished its second rising, lay the cheese over the
  dough shell. Then distribute the sausage and garlic over the cheese.
  Top with the tomatos. Sprinkle on the seasonings and Parmesan cheese.
  
  Bake for 15 minutes at 500 degrees. Then lower the temperature to 400
  degrees and bake for 25 to 35 minutes longer. Lift up a section of the
  crust from time to time with a spatula to check on its color. The
  crust will be golden brown when done. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bay Scallop Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Chopped shallot
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 c  Milk (not skim or 2%)
      3 tb Snipped chives
      1 lb Scallops OR
    1/2 lb Scallops AND **
    1/2 lb Lobster meat **
      1 ts White pepper (or to taste)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: the Sea
  view restaurant - Bar Harbor, Me. Bay Scallop Stew In heavy sauce pan
  saute shallots in butter, add wine; boil. Lower heat and simmer 2
  min. Add scallops, simmer 5 min. Add milk, cream and chives. Stir
  until hot. Do not boil. salt and white pepper. Serve. prep time 30 -
  45 min.
  
  **Alternative: 1/2 # scallop - 1/2 # lobster meat. Stew will separate
  slightly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Celebration Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 lg Prawns, shelled and
           Deveined, per person
    1/2 c  Sweet butter
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      4    White mushrooms, cleaned,
           Per person
           Juice of 1 lemon, per four
           People
           Fettucine noodles, cooked
           And drained
           Grated Romano Cheese, to
           Taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman CELEBRATION SHRIMP In a
  frying pan, combine the garlic and butter over medium heat until the
  butter is melted. Place the shrimp and mushrooms in the pan and saute
  until shrimp is done, turning the shrimp and mushrooms occasionally.
  
  Put the hot fettucine noodles on each plate. Top with a serving of
  shrimp and mushrooms, leaving the butter/garlic mixture in the pan.
  Pour the lemon juice over the butter/garlic mixture and heat,
  stirring for 1-2 minutes. Pour the butter/garlic mixture over the
  fettucine.
  
  Shake the grated cheese over each serving (we let everyone do his/her
  own) and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Ya-Hah!
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Chicken breasts, split,
           Skinned and boned
      1 c  Celery, coarsely chopped
      1 c  Onion, coarsely chopped
      3    Jalapeno(s), fresh minced
      1 tb Sesame oil, dark
    1/2 ts Celery seed, whole
      8 ts Water chestnuts, sliced
           (canned as a last resort)
      2 tb Chili powder, home made
           (prepared if you must)
    1/2 ts Cumin
      1 tb Oregano, fresh (3/4 t if
           Dried)
    1/4 c  Red wine, (dry-ish)
      4    Cloves garlic, crushed
      3 cn Tomato sauce
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      1 tb Szechwan chili sauce
           Oil for saute
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Chicken "Ya-hah!" Saute the
  celery, onions and garlic in the oils while you cut the chicken into
  bite-sized pieces. When the onion is translucent add the chicken,
  celery seed, jalapenos and water chestnuts. Saute until chicken is
  barely done... add the remaining ingredients, cover and simmer for an
  hour. Serve over either cornbread, rice or pasta... they're all good.
  Enjoy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gourmet Chili Pot Pie Topping
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  All purpose flour
      1 c  Yellow corn meal
      3 tb Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      3 tb Butter, melted and cooled
    3/4 c  Milk
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
    1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
      2 ts Chopped chilies, or to
           Taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: Joan Gruzen
  GOURMET CHILI POT PIE TOPPING (from Joan Gruzen) Into a bowl sift
  together the flour, cornmeal, sugar, baking powder. Add the butter,
  milk and the egg, and stir the batter until it is just combined. Stir
  in the cheddar and the chilies and cover the top of the casserole in
  which you have the chili.
  
  Bake the potpie in the middle of a preheated 400 oven for 10 minutes.
  Reduce the heat to 350 and bake the potpie for 30 minutes more.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Redeye Gravy
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 tb Drippings from 4 half-inch
           Baked ham steaks
    1/4 c  Firmly packed *light* brown
           Sugar
    1/2 c  *strong* fresh-brewed black
           Coffee
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman HAM & REDEYE GRAVY Remove
  the ham steaks from their fry-drippings and measure out 4 tbsp. of
  the fat. Dispose of the rest. Stir the sugar into the pan at LOW
  heat, stirring constantly, until the sugar dissolves. Add the coffee,
  and simmer until the gravy turns a rich brown (maybe 5 minutes or
  so). DO NOT ALLOW THE GRAVY TO BOIL! Pour the gravy over the ham and
  serve.
  
  (NOTE): If you're using uncooked slices of a salty, dry-cured ham,
  add a cup of water to the skillet along with the ham. The ham will
  absorb all the water by the time it's cooked through. Add more water
  if the original amount is absorbed too quickly.
  
  If you're using salt pork, or pork belly fat (like bacon, but
  unsmoked), be sure to blanch it before using. To blanch, cover with
  cold water, bring to a boil, simmer 3 minutes, then drain. Fry a
  little chunk, and if it's still too salty, blanch it again.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Medallions of Pork W/red Wine Sauce
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Slices boneless loin of
           Pork, 3 oz each, trimmed of
           Fat
      1    Whole clove
    1/2 c  Red wine
      1 ts Balsamic vinegar
      2 ts Honey
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Freshly grated ginger
    1/2 ts Dried thyme OR
      2    Springs of fresh
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: 60 minute
  Gourmet -- NY Times. Medallions of Pork with Red-Wine Sauce
  
  Place pork slices on a flat surface. Pound lightly with a mallet.
  Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Combine ginger, thyme, vinegar, bay
  leaf, clove, wine, and honey in a bowl and blend well. Place sliced
  pork in a dish and pour mixture over it. Marinate for 10 minutes.
  Drain the pork medallions and pat dry. Reserve marinate. Place meat
  in a single layer in skillet in the hot oil. Cook for 5 minutes, turn
  and cook for 5 minutes more over medium high heat. Reduce heat and
  cook meat for 2 minutes more. Transfer meat to a dish and keep warm.
  In skillet add the shallots and cook stirring until wilted. Add the
  reserved marinate and cook, stirring and scraping the bottom. Cook
  until marinate is reduced to 3/4 its original amount. Swirl in the
  butter and pour the sauce over the medallions. Remove bay leaf and
  sprigs of thyme before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops W/apples & Sweet & Sour
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    1/2 in thick boneless pork
           Chops
      2    Cooking apples (granny
           Smiths), about 1 lb.
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots (or
           Onions)
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Honey
      1 ts Tomato paste (just to give
           Red color, sometimes I
           Substitute
      1 tb Catsup)
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: the N.Y.
  Times Pork Chops with Apples and Sweet and Sour Sauce
  
  Sprinkle chops with salt and pepper to taste and set aside. Cut the
  Apples into quarters. Peel the quarters and discard the core. Dredge
  the chops in flour. Heat the oil in a large heavy skillet, and add
  the chops. Cook until well browned on one side, about 5 minutes. Turn
  the chops and continue cooking about 5 minutes. Remove the chops, and
  add the quartered apples. Cook about 2 minutes turning the apples
  often. Remove the apples and pour off the fat from the skillet. Add
  the shallots and vinegar and cook briefly, stirring with a wooden
  spoon. Add the broth and honey. Cook 1 minute and stir in the tomato
  paste. Return the chops and apples to the skillet. Spoon sauce over
  them, and cover closely. Cook ten minutes, and serve chops covered
  with sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rock Shrimp Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Rock shrimp
      1 c  Celery, diced
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Chopped carrots
    1/4 lb Butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Black pepper (optional)
      1 ts Curry powder
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Chopped garlic
    1/2 c  Flour
      1    Tomato, diced medium
      1    Green pepper, diced medium
      2    Tomatos, diced medium
           Chopped parsley for garnish
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: Chef Tom
  Hietpas Rock shrimp chowder from the Black Tulip Restaurant in Cocoa,
  Florida. Rock Shrimp Chowder
  
  Peel the shrimp and boil the shells in 1 gallon water with the scraps
  from chopping the onion and celery and 2 teaspoons salt. Reduce the
  liquid to 1/4 or about 1 quart of stock and strain. Blanch the shrimp
  in the stock. Do not overcook. Strain and reserve shrimp and stock
  for soup. Saute the celery, carrots and onion. Add black pepper,
  curry powder, chili powder, thyme and chopped garlic. Add flour and
  mix well. Gradually add 1 quart of hot shrimp and stock and simmer
  for about 15 minutes on low heat. Add diced tomato, green pepper and
  potatoes to stock mixture and continue to simmer until potatoes are
  tender. Add salt to taste and rock shrimp just before serving. Serve
  topped with oyster crackers and fresh chopped parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whole Wheat Pizza Crust
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Warm water
      2 tb Veg. oil
      3 tb Honey
      1 tb Salt
  2 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
      2 tb Gluten flour (opt.)
      1 c  White all-purpose flour
           (enough to make a satiny
           Dough)
      1 ts Yeast
           Cornmeal for shaping surface
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Whole wheat pizza WHOLE
  WHEAT PIZZA CRUST
  
  Dissolve yeast in water. Add oil, honey, salt, and 1 cup whole wheat
  flour, and mix well. Cover and set in warm place until light and
  bubbly. Add remaining wheat flour and as much white flour as the
  dough wants. Knead for 10 minutes or more. Grease top of dough, put
  in oiled bowl, cover, let rise 35-45 minutes. After 1st rise, punch
  down, knead briefly, allow it to rest about 10 minutes -- pat it down
  occasionally.
  
  Heat pizza stone in 400F oven. On a cornmeal-covered board (lots of
  cornmeal), roll, pound, and push dough into a circle. Take out stone,
  slide dough onto it, top with sauce and pizza ingredients. Cook pizza
  10 to 15 mins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp and Feta Alla Grecque
 Categories: Greek, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp, medium, cleaned,
           Cooked
      1 lb Feta cheese, *
      1 c  Scallions, sliced
      1 tb Tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice, fresh
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      1 tb Basil, fresh, chopped
      1 tb Dill, fresh, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 lb Fettuccine, or flat
           Noodle **
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Jean Hores Originally from: Kitchen Aid
  Cook Book Shrimp and Feta Alla Grecque * feta cheese, drained and
  coarsely crumbled ** noodles, cooked and drained
  
  Combine shrimp, feta cheese, scallions in a large bowl. Add tomato
  sauce, olive oil, lemon juice, parsley, basil, dill, salt, and
  pepper; mix well. Cover and refrigerate 1 hour.
  
  Toss shrimp mixture with hot noodles and serve immediately or
  refrigerate 1 hour and serve cold.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Apple Muffin
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      4    Apples, red, medium,
           Dessert
      3 tb Sugar
      2 ts Cinnamon, ground

MMMMM-----------------------MUFFIN BATTER----------------------------
      2 c  Flour, all-purpose
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
      1 c  Apples, peeled, chopped,
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Jean Hores Originally from: BETTER BAKING
  Hot Apple Muffins TOPPING: To prepare the topping, core and peel the
  apples, keeping them whole. Cut each one into 4 to 5 thick rings. Mix
  the sugar and cinnamon together and coat the apple rings. Reserve.
  
  MUFFIN: Sift together the dry ingredients in a mixing bowl. In
  another bowl beat the eggs, add the milk and melted butter. Stir the
  liquid very quickly into the flour mixture - do not beat and do not
  worry about lumps. Speed is essential. Fold in the chopped apples.
  Fill 24 (5in.) greased muffins tins or paper cases, filled to
  one-third, and put one cinnamon apple ring on each muffin.
  
  Bake in a preheated hot oven 425F, for 15 to 25 minutes, until cooked.
  Remove from tins and serve hot.
  
  Servings: 24
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach & Feta Cheese Quiche
 Categories: Greek, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10 oz Spinach, frozen, chopped, *
      4    Eggs, beaten
    3/4 c  Cream
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
    1/4 lb Feta cheese, crumbled
      3 tb Parmesan or Romano
           Cheese **
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Jean Hores Originally from: THE FRUGAL
  GOURMET ~ JEFF SMITH Spinach and Feta Cheese Quiche (Jeff Smith) Salt
  and pepper to taste Quiche Crust, baked, cooled
  
  * defrost spinach and squeeze out as much moisture as possible; it
  should be fairly dry. ** cheese is better if fresh-grated.
  
  Mix the eggs, cream, and milk.  Add the salt and pepper, lemon juice,
  and parsley. Stir in the spinach and feta cheese. Fill the quiche
  crust, and place the Parmesan on top.
  
  Bake at 375 F. for 30 to 40 minutes, or until a knife inserted in the
  center comes out dry. Cool for 10 minutes before serving.
  
  Can also be served at room temperature.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Feta & Ricotta Cheese Fondue
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      4 oz Feta cheese 1/2" cubes
    1/8 ts Pepper, black
      1    Lemon, juice of
      1 tb Parsley, minced (optional)
      1 c  Ricotta cheese
 
  This will taste very Greek to you. Be sure to drain the spinach well.
  Contributed to the echo by: Jean Hores Originally from: QUICK, THRIFTY
  COOKING Feta and Ricotta Cheese Fondue
  
  Melt the butter in a heavy 8-inch skillet or a 1 quart saucepan over
  low-heat. Add the feta and ricotta cheese, and pepper. Cook, stirring
  constantly, and mashing the cheeses slightly, until they soften and
  begin to bubble - about 5 minutes.
  
  Stir in lemon juice, and garnish with the parsley if desired. Serve at
  once; as the fondue cools, it loses flavor. VARIATIONS: Substitute
  Fontina cheese for the Feta Cheese or you can substitute cottage
  cheese for the ricotta. You can make both of these substitutions.
  
  Servings: 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Candy Squares
 Categories: Candy, Chocolate
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine (melted)
      2 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      6 oz Pkg. chocolate chips
  1 1/2 c  Flaked coconut
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Brown sugar (firmly packed)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Laurie Gill Pour melted butter in bottom
  of 13x9" baking pan. Sprinkle vanilla wafer crumbs evenly over butter.
  Sprinkle walnuts over crumbs, chocolate chips over walnuts and
  coconut over chocolate. Combine evaporated milk with brown sugar.
  Stir until smooth. Pour evenly over layers. Bake at 350 degrees for
  25 minutes. Cool for 1 hour. Cut into 1-1/2 ea squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crunchy Pea Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 oz Fresh or frozen peas
    1/4 c  Crisp bacon (crumbled)
      1 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Diced green onion
      1 c  Cashews
    1/2 ts Dijon mustard
      1 cl Garlic (minced)
      1 c  Prepared Hidden Valley Ranch
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Laurie Gill ORIGINAL RANCH salad dressing
  
  Rinse peas in hot water (or steam if fresh); drain. Combine
  vegetables, nuts, and bacon with sour cream. Mix dressing, mustard
  and garlic together; pour over salad mixture. Toss gently. Chill.
  
  SERVES 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Peaches
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      7 lb Peaches, small
      3 lb Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Vinegar, cider
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Cinnamon, ground
           Cloves, whole
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sam Waring Originally from: Mrs. Donald E.
  Jefferson, Caroline Co., MD, per the Hammond-Harwood House Cookbook
  PICKLED PEACHES Peel peaches and stick a clove in each. Mix the
  sugar, vinegar and water and bring to a boil. Add enough peaches to
  be covered by syrup. Cook until a straw pushes easily through to the
  pit. Pack into hot sterilized jars, fill with hot syrup and seal the
  jars. Process 25 minutes in a boiling water bath.
  
  Makes about 3 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Muffins
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizer
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 lb Crabmeat (7 oz. can)
      1    Stick margarine
      1    Jar Old English Cheese
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
      2 tb Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Season salt
      6    English Muffins
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Theresa Merkling CRAB MUFFINS Mix
  together all except muffins. Spread on muffins. Cut muffins into
  quarters. Freeze on cookie sheet. Put in bag and store in freezer
  until needed. Broil and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Cornbread #2
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Plain cornmeal
      1 ts Salt
      3 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Cream style corn
      2    Eggs or egg sub.
      1 lg Bell pepper (chop fine)
      1 ts Butttermilk
      2    Jalopeno peppers (chop fine)
      2 c  Sharp cheese - grated
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    2/3 c  Cooking oil
           Few shakes garlic powder
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Karen Lamm Originally from: Mom Mexican
  Cornbread
  
  Mix all ingredients except cheese. Heat greased iron skillet and pour
  1/2 the mixture into the pan. Put 1/2 of the grated cheese on top,
  then pour remaining mix over it. Put rest of the cheese on top. Bake
  for 35 minutes at 350F. Cool for at least 30 minutes before cutting.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti All'aglio E Peperoncino Piccan
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      4    Ripe tomatos, peeled and
           Chopped
      3 cl Garlic, finely chopped
      1 ts Crushed red pepper
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      1 lb Spaghetti
    1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
           Salt to taste
 
  Originally from: COSTA Cruise Lines via Tom Dickman SPAGHETTI
  ALL'AGLIO E PEPERONCINO PICCANTE (Spaghetti W/Garlic And Red Pepper)
  Heat olive oil in a large skillet and add tomatos, garlic and crushed
  pepper and simmer 2 minutes longer.
  
  Meanwhile, heat 4 to 6 quarts water in a large pot. Add salt to taste
  and the spaghetti. Bring to boil and boil about 8 minutes, until
  spaghetti is "al dente." Do not over cook. Drain and add to the
  skillet. Heat through and serve sprinkled generously with Parmesan
  cheese.
  
  Serves 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fido's Favorite Treats
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Uncooked Oatmeal
      1 ts Bouillon Granules
    3/4 c  Powdered milk
      1    Egg, Beaten
    1/3 c  Margerine
  1 1/2 c  Hot Water
    3/4 c  Cornmeal
      3 c  Whole Wheat Flour
 
  In a large bowl pour hot water over oatmeal, margerine, and bouillon
  granules: let stand 5 minutes. Stir in powdered milk, cornmeal and
  egg. Add flour, 1/2 cup at a time, mixing well after each addition.
  Knead 3 to 4 minutes, adding more flour if necessary to make a very
  stiff dough. Pat or roll dough to 1/2 inch thikness. Cut into bone
  shapes and place on a greased baking sheet. Bake in a 325 degree oven
  for 50 minutes. Allow to cool and dry out until hard. Makes
  approximately 1 3/4 pounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fido's Cheese Nuggets
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Uncooked Oatmeal
  1 1/2 c  Hot Water or Meat Juices
      4 oz (1 cup) Grated Cheese
      1    Egg, Beaten
      1 c  Wheat Germ
    1/4 c  Margerine
    1/2 c  Powdered Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Cornmeal
      3 c  Whole Wheat Flour
 
  In large bowl pour hot water over oatmeal and margerine: let stand
  for 5 minutes. Stir in powdered milk, grated cheese, salt and egg.
  Add cornmeal and wheat germ. Mix well. Add flour, 1/3 cup at a time,
  mixing well after each addition. Knead 3 or 4 minutes, adding more
  flour if necessary to make a very stiff dough. Pat or roll dough to
  1/2 inch thikness. Cut into bone shaped biscuits and place on a
  greased baking sheet. Bake for 1 hour at 300 degrees. Turn off heat
  and leave in oven for 1 1/2 hours or longer. Makes approximately 2
  1/4 pounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fido's Ranch Biscuits
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Dry Yeast
      2 c  Warm Chicken or Beef Broth
    1/4 c  Margerine or Hamb. Grease
      1    Egg, Beaten
      2 c  All Purpose Flour
      1 c  Wheat Germ
      4 c  Whole Wheat Flour
    1/2 c  Warm Water
    1/2 c  Powdered Milk
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Cornmeal
      2 c  Cracked Wheat
 
  In small bowl, dissolve yeast in warm water. In large bowl combine
  broth, powdered milk, margerine, honey, egg and salt. Add yeast/water
  and mix well. Stir in flour, cornmeal, wheat germ and cracked wheat.
  Mix well. Add whole wheat flour, 1/2 cup at a time, mixing well after
  each addition. Knead in the final amounts of flour by hand and
  continue kneading for 4 or 5 minutes until dough is not sticky. Pat
  or roll dough to 1/2 inch thickness and cut into bone shapes. Place
  on a greased cookie sheet, cover lightly and let set for 20 minutes.
  Bake in a 350 degree oven for 45 minutes. Turn off heat and leave in
  oven several hours or over night. Makes approximately 3 1/2 pounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fido's Rewards
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    3/4 c  Hot Water or Meat Juices
    1/2 c  Powdered Milk
      1    Egg, Beaten
    1/3 c  Margerine
    1/2 ts Salt (optional)
      3 c  Whole Wheat Flour
 
  In a large bowl pour hot water over margerine. Stir in powdered milk,
  salt and egg. Add flour 1/2 cup at a time mixing well after each
  addition. Knead 3 to 4 minutes, adding more flour if necessary to
  make a very stiff dough. Pat or roll to 1/2 inch thickness and cut
  into bone shapes. Place on a greased baking sheet and bake at 325
  degrees for 50 minutes. Allow to cool and dry out until hard. Makes
  approximately 1 1/4 pounds. Costs approximately $.25 per pound.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cape Cod Cranberry Bread Bake
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Orange;large, seedless
      2 c  Cranberries;picked over
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  -Water
      2    Eggs, large
      1 pn Cinnamon;ground
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      3 tb Grand Marnier liqueur
      1 ts Vanilla
      8 oz French bread loaf;or Italian
           -trimmed of crusts, cut in
           -thin slices
           Heavy or whipping cream
 
  From Massachusettes' Cape. Delightfully different for Thanksgiving,
  
    Finely grate the peel from the orange. Remove the skin and
  membranes for the orange. Section the orange and cut each section
  across into thin slices. Combine the orange peel, orange slices,
  cranberries 1 1/2 cups sugar and the water in a medium saucepan. Heat
  to boiling; reduce the heat. Simmer covered 10 minutes. Remove cover
  and continue to cook until slightly thickened, about 5 minutes.
  Remove from heat.
    Preheat the oven to 325F. Beat the eggs with the cinnamon in a
  large bowl until light. Beat in the remaining 3/4 cup sugar, the milk
  and 1/2 cup cream, Grand Marnier liqueur and vanilla. Place a layer
  of bread over the bottom of a buttered 2 qt souffle dish. Using a
  ladle, add enough egg mixture to cover the bread. Spoon one third of
  all the cranberry mixture over the top. Repeat the layers two more
  times, adding all the egg mixture to the dish before spooning on the
  last third of the cranberries. Bake until firm, about 1 hour. Serve
  slightly warm or at room temperature with heavy cream. SERVES:8
  
  SOURCE:_As American As Apple Pie_
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poulet Chasseur
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, French
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Chickens (3-1/2 to 4 lbs ea)
           - cut up
           Salt and pepper; as desired
    1/3 c  Cooking oil
      2 md Onions
           - peeled and roughly diced
      2 md Carrots; roughly diced
      1    Celery stalk; roughly sliced
      1 tb Minced garlic
      4 tb All-purpose flour
      2 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      2 tb Tomato paste
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 lb Bacon; cut into 1/2-in cubes
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
    1/4 c  Brandy
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Cream
      1 tb Chopped fresh tarragon
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Pat the chicken pieces dry and sprinkle with
  salt and pepper. Heat the oil in a large covered oven-proof casserole
  or Dutch oven over medium-high heat on top of the stove. Add the
  chicken pieces and brown well on all sides, about 7 minutes. The
  chicken should not crowd the pan so you may have to perform this
  operation in batches. Remove pieces to a plate as they are done.
  Discard all but 2 tablespoons oil, reduce heat to medium and replace
  skillet on the stove top. Add onion, carrot, celery and garlic and
  cook about 3 minutes. Sprinkle with flour and cook, stirring, another
  minute. Add the stock, tomato paste and bay leaves. Replace the
  chicken thighs and drumsticks in the casserole with any accumulated
  juices from the chicken. Cover and bring to a boil. Place the
  casserole in the oven. After 15 minutes, add the reserved breasts and
  cook 20 minutes longer. Remove from the oven, remove the chicken from
  the casserole and set aside. Strain the sauce through a fine sieve
  and discard vegetables. Place bacon in another medium oven-proof pot
  on the stove over medium heat and cook, stirring occasionally, for 5
  minutes. Pour off excess fat and add the mushrooms, brandy, milk,
  cream and braising sauce. Mix well. Arrange chicken pieces on the
  bacon-mushroom mixture, cover and place in the oven for 15 minutes or
  until bubbling hot. To serve, arrange the chicken pieces on a platter
  and spoon the bacon, mushrooms and sauce over the top and garnish
  with tarragon.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pressed Sandwich
 Categories: Sandwich
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Cooked meat or poultry
           - diced or sliced
      2    Long loaves French bread
           -=OR=- Italian bread
      8    Bacon rashers
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 md Onion
           - peeled & thinly sliced
      4 sl Brie cheese, 2 oz each
 
  DEFROST COOKED MEAT, if necessary. Cut the ends off the bread and cut
  each loaf in half the short way. Remove the center of the bread.
  (Save the white centers for breadcrumbs.) Set the hollow loaves
  aside. Arrange the bacon in a large skillet or fry pan and place over
  medium heat. Cook, turning once, until crisp. Remove the bacon, drain
  on paper towels and discard the fat in the pan. Replace the pan on
  the stove, add 2 tablespoons oil and the onions. Cover and cook until
  soft, about 7 minutes. Uncover, increase heat to high and cook,
  stirring often until onions begin to dry out and turn a light golden
  color, another 10 minutes or so. Remove from the heat, scrape the
  onions into a bowl and set aside. Stuff a cheese slice and a bacon
  rasher in each loaf of bread. Using the handle of a large wooden
  spoon, stuff in the meat and onions. Choose a skillet or roasting pan
  large enough to hold 4 sandwiches and choose a flat cover that is
  smaller than the pan. Heat half the remaining oil over low heat,
  place the sandwiches in the skillet with the cover on top of the
  sandwiches. Place a 2-pound weight on the cover and cook for about 5
  minutes. Remove the cover, turn the sandwiches and add the remaining
  oil. Replace the cover and press down with the weights. Cook another
  5 minutes. Remove the sandwiches from the heat and keep warm in a
  250F oven while you cook the remaining 2 sandwiches. To serve, cut
  each sandwich in half, then diagonally cut each half into triangular
  pieces.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Casserole
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh pumpkin meat
      1 lg Onion; finely chopped
    1/2 ts Salt; or as desired
    1/4 ts Ground white pepper
      2 tb Unsalted butter; melted
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Farmers cheese
           -OR- hoop or ricotta cheese
 
  Pumpkin dishes don't have to be sweet. This one is perfect with roast
  pork. Hollow out a small pumpkin to serve this in for a special
  presentation.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Using a paring knife or vegetable peeler, peel
  and discard outer skin of the pumpkin. Slice the pumpkin into
  1/4-inch slices and place in a mixing bowl. Add the onion, salt,
  pepper and butter and toss well. Pour contents of the bowl into a
  9-inch round or square greased baking dish, cover with foil and place
  in the oven. Bake for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, beat eggs, milk and
  cheese together until smooth. Remove the baking dish from the oven,
  remove the cover and pour the cheese mixture over the top. Replace in
  oven, uncovered, another 20 minutes. The gratin is done when it turns
  golden brown.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puree of Sweet Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Flavorless cooking oil
      1 md Onion; chopped
      6 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
           -OR water, or a mixture
  1 1/4 lb Sweet potatoes
           - peeled and roughly diced
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Salt; or to taste
    1/4 ts White pepper
    1/2 c  Chunky cranberry sauce
           Sour cream
 
  HEAT OIL IN A POT over medium heat; add onions. Cook, stirring, for 5
  minutes. Add stock, potatoes, nutmeg, salt and pepper. Raise heat to
  high, cover and bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low and simmer,
  uncovered, for 30 minutes. Remove from heat and puree the soup in
  batches. Replace pureed soup in a pot and reheat, covered, over low
  heat. To serve, place a dollop of cranberry sauce and sour cream in
  the bottom of each soup bowl. Transfer piping hot soup to a tureen or
  pitcher and ladle into bowls at the table.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puree of Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Virgin olive oil
      1 md Onion
           - peeled and roughly diced
    1/2 tb Minced garlic
      2 lb Plum tomatoes,pref. overripe
      1 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Chopped fresh herbs
           - any combination of Basil,
           - Oregano, Thyme & Marjoram
           Salt; to taste
           Freshly ground pepper
           - to taste
 
  HEAT THE OLIVE OIL in a 3-quart heavy stock pot over low heat. Add the
  onions and cook slowly, without coloring, for about 7 minutes. Add the
  garlic, tomatoes, white wine and herbs. Cover and cook over low heat
  about 30 minutes, breaking up the tomatoes with a wooden spoon as
  they soften. Strain and reserve the liquid. Place the tomatoes in a
  blender or processor and puree until very smooth. Add the reserved
  liquid to the tomato puree and pass the soup through a strainer to
  remove the tomato skins and seeds. Taste for salt and pepper.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rack of Lamb with Bacon Vinaigrette
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Trimmed lamb racks
           - 8 ribs each
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    2/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Minced garlic
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 ts Kosher salt
      1 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 lb Bacon; cut in 3/4-in pieces
    1/2 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      1 tb Dijon mustard
 
  HAVE YOUR BUTCHER TRIM the racks, exposing the bone. Remove the outer
  layer of fat and discard. Lay the racks in a glass dish and sprinkle
  with 1 tablespoon oil, 1/4 cup vinegar, garlic, coriander, salt and
  pepper. Cover and let stand at room temperature for 1 hour. Preheat
  oven to 450F. Pat racks dry and place fat side up in a roasting pan.
  Place in oven for 10 minutes, reduce heat to 350F and continue to
  roast another 15 minutes for medium rare, 18 to 20 minutes for
  medium. Meanwhile, place the bacon in a 10-inch skillet over medium
  heat and cook 3 to 4 minutes. Set the skillet aside. Remove the lamb
  from the oven and pour out the fat. Add chicken broth and stir to
  dissolve and scrape up any brown bits that have stuck to the bottom
  of the pan. Pour liquid into the skillet with the bacon. When it's
  time to put dinner on the table, cut the racks into chops and arrange
  them on a platter. Pour any juices from the lamb into the saucepan.
  Place the skillet over high heat, bring to a boil and add the
  mustard. Remove from the heat, beat in the rest of the oil and pour
  the sauce over the lamb.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Beans, Pasta, Sausage & Tomatoes
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Dry red beans
     12    Ripe plum tomatoes; -=OR=-
     28 oz -Can whole peeled tomatoes
    1/2 lb Rigatoni
           -=OR=- other tubular pasta
      2 lg Swiss Chard leaves
           - (red or green)
      1 tb Olive oil
      6    Italian-style sausages
           - each cut in 2-or-3 pieces
      1 tb Minced garlic
    1/2 c  White wine
      1 tb Fresh oregano leaves; -=OR=-
      1 ts -Dried oregano leaves
    1/2 ts Salt; or as desired
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
 
  PLACE BEANS IN A POT with enough water to barely cover, cover the pot
  and cook over low heat until beans are barely soft, about 2 hours.
  Add water to keep the beans just covered as necessary. When beans are
  done, remove from heat, drain and set aside. Meanwhile, cut the stems
  out of fresh tomatoes and plunge them into boiling water for barely 1
  minute, or until skins crack. Remove from water, peel the tomatoes,
  cut them in half crosswise and squeeze out the seeds. If using canned
  whole tomatoes, cut them in half and squeeze out seeds. Cut each
  tomato half in quarters and set aside. Cook pasta until barely soft
  according to the manufacturer's directions. Drain and mix with the
  beans. Lay the chard leaves on a work surface and cut out the center
  stem. Roughly chop the leaves and thinly slice the stems. Set aside.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Combine oil and sausages in a Dutch oven, place
  over medium heat and cook 3 minutes. Pour off the fat, add the garlic
  and cook, stirring, another minute. Add the tomatoes, beans and
  pasta, wine, oregano, chard stems, salt and pepper. Cover and place
  in the oven for 20 minutes. When it's time to get dinner on the
  table, add chopped chard to the casserole. If the casserole appears
  dry, add up to 1 cup water. Replace in the oven for 5 minutes. Serve
  piping hot from the oven and offer grated cheese.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Wine-And-Garlic Pot Roast
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Cooking oil
      1    Beef round or rump roast
           -(about 4 lb)
      2 md Carrots; roughly diced
      1    Celery stalk; roughly sliced
     24    Garlic cloves; peeled
      2 c  Dry red wine
           Salt; to taste
      1 ts Whole black peppercorns
      2    Bay leaves
  1 1/2 ts Chopped fresh thyme leaves
           -=OR=-
    1/2 ts -Dried thyme leaves
      1 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      2 tb Butter
 
  HEAT THE OIL over medium heat on the stove top in a heavy pot with a
  lid or a Dutch oven. Add the roast and surround it with carrots,
  celery and garlic. If cooking the roast on the stove top, cover the
  pot tightly and reduce heat to low. Use a burner heat diffuser if you
  have one. If using the oven method, cover tightly and place on the
  middle rack of the oven. Cook for 30 minutes. Remove cover, add the
  red wine, salt, pepper, bay leaves and thyme. Replace cover and
  continue to cook for 2 1/2-to-3 hours. Transfer the roast from the
  pot to a baking dish, cover and keep warm in the turned-off or slow
  oven for up to 15 minutes. Place the pot on top of the stove over
  medium heat and add the broth and butter. Cook, stirring vigorously
  until the butter is incorporated. Remove the roast from the oven,
  slice into serving pieces and arrange on a serving platter. Strain
  the pan juices over the roast, pressing the vegetables against the
  sieve or strainer to extract all their juices. Serve immediately and
  pass any extra sauce in a sauce boat.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Pork Loin
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           - to taste
      1 tb Fresh thyme leaves; -=OR=-
      1 ts -Dried thyme
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1    Pork loin, with rib bones
           - chine bone removed,
           -(about 6-to-7 lbs and
           - containing 11-or-12 chops)
      1 md Onion
           - peeled and roughly chopped
      2    Celery stalks
           - roughly sliced
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  All-purpose broth
           -OR low-sodium chicken broth
      1 c  Southern Comfort
 
  COMBINE SALT, PEPPER, THYME, garlic and oil in a blender or small food
  processor and blend to a paste-like consistency. Scrape into a small
  bowl. Place pork on a work surface, rub the surface with all the herb
  paste and place the loin in the refrigerator for 2 hours or up to 8
  hours. Preheat oven to 400F. Place the pork in the oven on a rack in
  a roasting pan and immediately reduce heat to 350F. Roast for 2
  hours. After 1 hour add the onions and celery. As the roast cooks,
  remove any excess fat with a basting bulb. The pork juices should run
  barely pink and the roast will continue to cook while it "rests." A
  meat thermometer should read 165F-to-170F in the thickest part of the
  roast. Remove the roasting pan from the oven and increase the heat to
  425F. Remove the roast to a plate to rest for 30 minutes before
  carving. Add the flour to the vegetables in the roasting pan, mix and
  replace in the oven for 15 minutes. Transfer the roasting pan to the
  stovetop, place over medium heat and add the broth, Southern Comfort
  and any juices that have escaped from the pork. Cook, stirring, until
  the gravy thickens. To serve, cut the loin into individual chops and
  arrange on a serving platter. Strain the gravy through a sieve or
  strainer into a sauceboat and serve on the side.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rosti Potatoes
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lg Potato
           Salt and pepper; to taste
      2 tb Butter
 
  PEEL THE POTATOES and shred them by hand. Add the salt and pepper and
  mix. Melt the butter in a 6-inch or 8-inch teflon frying pan over
  medium heat and add the potatoes. Cook without stirring for about 10
  minutes. Gently press down on the potatoes to compact them. Flip the
  pancake and cook until golden on the second side, another 5 to 7
  minutes. Add more butter to the pan if necessary.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Russian Pickled Whitefish
 Categories: Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Pieces of whitefish fillet
           - (about 6 oz each)
      1    Onion; thinly sliced
      1 tb Mustard
      1 ts Whole coriander seed
      1 ts Minced garlic
      1 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  :water
      2 tb Chopped fresh dill
           Salt and pepper; to taste
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Place the whitefish in a baking dish just large
  enough to hold the fillets comfortably, spread the onions over the
  top and set aside. Combine mustard, coriander, garlic, wine, vinegar,
  water, dill, salt and pepper in a small pot. Place over high heat,
  quickly bring to a boil and pour over the whitefish fillets. Cover
  the baking dish and place in the oven for 5 minutes. Remove from the
  oven, let cool to room temperature and place in the refrigerator.
  Serve chilled.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sage Dressing
 Categories: Side dish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Butter; melted
      3 c  Chopped onions
      3 c  Minced celery
     16 sl White bread, dried
           - broken into small pieces
      6 tb Minced fresh sage; -=OR=-
      3 tb -Dried sage leaves
      1 c  Minced fresh parsley
      2 ts Salt; or to taste
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
           - or to taste
      2 c  Broth; or less
           -(turkey, giblet or chicken)
 
  PUT 4 TABLESPOONS MELTED BUTTER into skillet. Add onions and celery
  and cook, stirring often, over moderate heat until vegetables are
  soft but not browned. In large bowl, combine dried bread, sage,
  parsley and salt and pepper. Add onion and celery mixture and
  remaining melted butter. Toss until well mixed (using your hands
  works best for mixing). Add broth slowly, a little at a time, while
  tossing mixture to moisten thoroughly. Take care to add only enough
  liquid to moisten or stuffing will become sodden. To test stuffing in
  order to see if seasonings are correct, melt a little butter in small
  skillet. Add rounded tablespoon of stuffing to skillet and stir until
  lightly golden. If it needs a more lively flavor, add more sage,
  onions or celery.
  
  Makes Enough for 16-Pound Turkey
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Buried in Potatoes
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    7-oz skinless salmon fillets
      2 lb Russet potatoes
      1 tb Lemon juice
      6 lg Scallions
           - thinly sliced into rounds
           Kosher salt
           White pepper
     12 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Shallots
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  White wine vinegar
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 450F. Heavily butter 4 pieces of 9-by-12-inch aluminum
  foil, then sprinkle with salt and white pepper. Shred the potatoes
  and mix with lemon juice and scallions. Make a bed using half the
  potatoes on each piece of aluminum foil. Place a salmon fillet on the
  potato bed, sprinkle with salt and pepper and cover with remaining
  potatoes. Press down on the potatoes, then enclose tightly in foil.
  Place in oven for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, combine shallots, wine and
  vinegar in a saucepan. Place over medium heat and cook until most of
  the liquid is evaporated. Remove from the heat and beat in remaining
  butter. Add salt and white pepper to taste and set briefly aside in a
  warm place. When it's time to put dinner on the table, heat the
  broiler. Unwrap the salmon, and place it close to the heat. Brown
  well, about 2 minutes per side. Arrange the salmon on a platter and
  serve the sauce separately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon in Red Wine with Apricots
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/4 lb Salmon fillets
      1 c  Dry red wine
    1/2 c  Fish stock
           Salt; to taste
           Freshly ground pepper
           -to taste
      1 c  Dried apricots
      2 tb Unsalted butter
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Pat the salmon dry on towels. Dust in flour,
  shaking off the excess. Heat the oil in a 12-inch oven-proof skillet
  or roasting pan over medium heat on the stove. Add the salmon and
  brown on all sides. Remove to a plate and discard oil. Add the wine
  and stock to the skillet and bring to a boil. Replace salmon in the
  skillet, add the apricots and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place,
  uncovered, in the oven. Cook 7 minutes. When done, transfer skillet
  to the stove top and remove the fish to a carving board. Cook the
  liquid in the roasting pan over high heat, stirring, until it
  thickens slightly. Remove from heat and whisk in the butter. Cut the
  salmon into 1/2-inch slices, arrange on a serving platter and spoon
  over the sauce.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Pate
 Categories: Appetizer, Fish
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 sl White bread
      1 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Diced onion
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      4    Eggs
      3    Egg whites
    1/2 lb Whitefish
  2 1/4 lb Salmon
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Ground white pepper
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Remove and discard the crust from the bread.
  Tear the bread into pieces and set aside. Melt the butter in a
  skillet over medium heat on the stove, add the onions and cook,
  stirring for 5 minutes or until softened. Add the wine, bring to a
  boil and cook 1 minute. Add the bread and cook, stirring 5 minutes.
  Scrape the mixture into a mixing bowl. Roughly cut the whitefish and
  salmon into 1-inch pieces and add to the bread in the mixing bowl.
  Add the salt, pepper, coriander and nutmeg and mix. Place the mixture
  in a food processor and process until smooth. Or, fit a meat grinder
  with a medium die and grind the fish mixture twice. Transfer mixture
  to a mixing bowl and place bowl over a pan of ice water. Add the eggs
  and the whites and mix well. Slowly add the cream. Pack the mixture
  into a 9-by-5-by-3-inch glass, ceramic or metal loaf pan. Tap the pan
  on a counter to firmly pack. Cover tightly with a double layer of
  aluminum foil. Place loaf pan in a larger pan and fill with boiling
  water until it rises halfway to the top of the loaf pan. Place in the
  oven for 1 hour. Remove pate from oven and its water bath. Place loaf
  pan on a baking sheet. Cool for 1 hour. Refrigerate for at least 3
  hours. To remove, run a knife around edges of the pate. Dip loaf pan
  in hot water for a minute. Turn out onto a plate. Serve with toast or
  crackers.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon W/ Cabbage, Chestnuts & Bacon
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     32    Chestnuts
    1/2 lb Slab bacon
           - cut into 1/2-in cubes
      2 sm Red cabbages
           - finely shredded
    1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
      5 lb Whole salmon
      2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      4 tb Finely minced shallots
      1 c  White vinegar
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Using a small knife, make a slit in each
  chestnut and spread them on a cookie pan in the oven for 30-to-35
  minutes. Remove from oven and when they are cool enough to handle,
  peel them. Place the bacon in a large skillet over medium heat and
  cook, stirring, about 5 minutes. Add the cabbage, cover and cook
  another 6-to-7 minutes or until well wilted. Remove from heat, add
  the chestnuts and transfer to a bowl. Sprinkle the cavity of the
  salmon with pepper and stuff with the cabbage mixture. Place the
  salmon in a roasting pan and add 1 cup wine and 2 tablespoons butter.
  Place in oven, uncovered, for 20 minutes. Turn on its other side and
  cook another 15-to-20 minutes, or until just barely cooked at the
  bone. While the salmon is baking, prepare the sauce. In a small
  saucepan over medium heat, combine shallots, remaining wine, vinegar
  and salt. Cook until the mixture is almost dry. Remove from heat and
  whisk in remaining butter. Arrange the salmon on a large serving
  platter and offer the sauce on the side.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon with 2 Purees
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Celery root
      1 lb Onions
  1 1/2 lb Mushrooms
      2 tb Minced shallots
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 tb Finely minced garlic
      2 c  Fish stock
      1 c  Whipping cream
      3 tb Chopped parsley
      4    7 oz salmon steaks
           -=OR=- Salmon fillets
      1 tb Melted butter
      2 tb Unsalted butter
 
  PEEL THE ONIONS, roughly dice them and set aside. Remove and discard
  celery root tops. Using a paring knife, peel and discard the thick
  black outer layer. Cut the celery root into pieces large enough to
  fit in the hopper of a food processor. Fit with a shredding blade and
  shred the celery root. Combine onion and celery root in a heavy pot.
  Cover onion and celery root and place over low heat. Cook for 20
  minutes, stirring frequently. Remove cover and cook, stirring,
  another 10 minutes or so or until the mixture is dry. Keep warm while
  preparing the rest of the recipe. Place mushrooms, shallots and 1/4
  teaspoon salt in a food processor and puree until smooth. Scrape this
  mixture into a medium saucepan over medium heat and cook, uncovered,
  stirring, until the moisture has evaporated and the mixture is dry.
  Remove from the heat and hold in a hot oven until salmon is done.
  Preheat the broiler. Butter a 9-inch baking dish. While mushroom
  mixture is cooking, combine the wine, garlic and 1/4 teaspoon salt in
  another medium saucepan over medium heat. Cook, uncovered, until
  reduced by half. Add the fish stock and reduce again until the
  mixture starts to thicken. Add cream and reduce until sauce will coat
  the back of a spoon. Scrape into a blender, add the parsley and blend
  until smooth. Replace in saucepan. Place the salmon in the baking
  dish and coat the surface with melted butter. Sprinkle with 1/4
  teaspoon of salt, and place under broiler for 5 minutes. Replace
  parsley cream over medium heat on top of the stove and whisk in the
  unsalted butter. To serve, place dollops of celery root and mushroom
  puree on a warm plate. Lay a piece of salmon on top between the 2 and
  spoon some sauce over the top.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon with Fines Herbes Stuffing
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Whole side of salmon (2 lb)
           - skin and bones removed
      1 tb Oil
      1 c  Minced onion
    1/2 c  White wine
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts White pepper
      5 tb Butter
      2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
      1 c  Chopped parsley
      3 tb Chopped fresh tarragon
      2 ts Chopped fresh thyme
    1/2 c  Sherry
 
  COMBINE ONION, WINE, SALT, PEPPER and 2 tablespoons butter in a large
  pot, place over medium heat and cook for 5 minutes. Add bread crumbs.
  Cook, stirring constantly, 3 minutes. Transfer contents to bowl and
  cool. Add parsley, tarragon and thyme. Lay fillet on work surface and
  carefully butterfly it by cutting in half to give you 2 thin fillets.
  Lay down a piece of parchment paper larger than the 2 fillets side by
  side. Brush it with oil. Lay the 2 pieces of salmon on the parchment
  head to tail, forming a large rectangular fillet of salmon. Spread
  cool stuffing evenly over the salmon and roll up the salmon cigarette
  style. Use the paper underneath to assist rolling tightly into a
  cylinder. Preheat oven to 350F. Place salmon roll in a baking pan and
  bake 35 minutes. Meanwhile, heat the sherry in a saucepan; cook,
  reducing by half. Remove from heat and whisk in the remaining butter.
  Unwrap the salmon from the paper and place on a platter. Pour the
  sauce over and serve immediately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Apple Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive Oil
      2 c  Fresh Broccoli Stalks
           - (peeled and diced)
      2 tb Fresh Thyme, finely chopped
           -OR-
    3/4 ts -Dried Thyme, crushed
      1 c  Onion; thinly sliced
      1 c  Red Cooking Apple
           - peeled and diced
    1/2 c  Celery, diced
      4 c  Lo-Salt, Lo-Fat Chick. stock
    1/4 ts Ground white pepper
    1/4 c  NonFat Yogurt
      2 tb Minced Parsley
 
  Heat oil in large pot with lid.  Add broccoli, thyme, onion, apple and
  celery.  Cover and cook over low heat 10 minutes.  Add chicken stock
  and pepper.  Cook 30 minutes more.  Remove from heat and cool
  slightly. Puree 1 cup at a time in blender or food processor. Serve
  hot or chilled, garnished with a dollop of yogurt and sprinkling of
  minced parsley.
  
  Makes 5 1/2 cups.
  
  From: Edward Pallan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fillet of Beef with Cilantro Lime Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2    Fillet of beef, trimmed
           - (about 2-1/2 to 3 lbs.)
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Cracked black pepper

MMMMM-----------------------CILANTRO SAUCE----------------------------
      1 c  Cilantro leaves
    1/2 c  Parsley leaves
      2    Limes; juice & zest only
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
      1 tb Dijon mustard
  1 1/4 c  Cornichons
      1 ts Ground coriander
 
  Preheat oven to 450 F.  Rub fillet with olive oil and pepper.  Roast
  20 to 25 minutes for rare.  Cool; refrigerate.  Serve cold with
  cilantro sauce.
  
  CILANTRO SAUCE: Combine all ingredients in a blender and process until
  leaves are roughly chopped and ingredients are blended.  Refrigerate
  until ready to serve.
  
  Source: Metropolitan Home - May 1986
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Minced onion
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Peanut butter
      4 c  Chicken broth
           Salt, pepper
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 tb Madeira
 
  Cook onion in butter until soft in 2-quart saucepan. Add flour and
  cook, stirring, until smooth. Stir in peanut butter, add chicken
  broth. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Cook, stirring, over low
  heat until thickened and smooth. Add cream. Just before serving, add
  Madeira.
  
  Created by: Velvet Turtle, Los Angeles
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lavash (Armenian Cracker Bread)
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Dry yeast
  1 1/2 c  Warm water
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 c  Whole wheat flour
           Toasted sesame seeds
 
  Sprinkle yeast into warm water in large bowl and stir until
  dissolved. Add salt. Combine all-purpose and whole wheat flours and
  add enough to yeast mixture to make stiff dough. Turn out on floured
  surface and knead until smooth and elastic, 8 to 10 minutes. Shape
  into ball. Place in greased bowl and turn to grease top. Cover and
  let rise until doubled in bulk, about 1 1/2 hours. Punch down and let
  rise again until doubled, about 30 minutes. Divide dough into 8
  pieces and roll each out on lightly floured surface to very thin
  circle about 9 inches in diameter. Place, one at a time, on baking
  sheet and sprinkle with sesame seeds. Bake at 400F 5 to 6 minutes, or
  until bread appears dry, lightly browned and blistered. Run palest
  side under hot broiler until lightly browned. Cool and store in dry
  place.
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Cream of Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped celery leaves
      1 md Carrot; diced
      1 sm Green bell pepper; diced
      1 c  Chopped spinach leaves
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      4 c  Chicken broth
      3    Parsley sprigs
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      2    Whole cloves
      1    Garlic clove
    1/4 c  Rice
           Salt, pepper
      2    Egg yolks
      2 c  Half and half
           Sour cream
           Parsley; minced
           Chives; minced
      2 md Tomatoes; peeled & chopped
 
  Combine celery leaves, carrot, green pepper, spinach, chopped parsley,
  onion and chicken broth in kettle. Tie parsley sprigs, bay leaf,
  thyme, cloves and garlic in small square of cheesecloth. Add to broth
  mixture along with rice. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Bring
  to boil, cover and simmer 40 minutes. Discard seasonings in
  cheesecloth bag. Press soup through fine sieve or puree in blender.
  Return soup to kettle and bring to boil. Beat egg yolks and stir a
  few tablespoons of soup into yolks. Stir yolk mixture into hot soup
  and cook, stirring, until smooth. Do not boil. Stir in half and half
  and simmer 2 or 3 minutes, stirring constantly. Remove from heat and
  chill thoroughly. If soup separates, stir before serving. Spoon into
  chilled soup bowls. Top each serving with dollop of sour cream and
  sprinkle with parsley, chives and chopped tomato.
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Biscotti Di Greve ( Orange Almond Biscotti)
 Categories: Italian, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      2 c  Flour; unbleached, all purp
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts -Salt
      2    Eggs, large
      1    Egg yolk, large
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Orange zest; freshly grated
  1 1/2 c  Almonds, whole; toasted
           -lightly & chopped coarse

MMMMM--------------------------EGG WASH-------------------------------
      1    Egg, large; beaten with
      1 ts -Water
 
  From the bakery in Greve, in Chianti, Italy.
  
  In the bowl of an electric mixer, fitted with a paddle attachment,
  blend the flour, the sugar, the baking soda and the salt until the
  mixture is combined well. In a small bowl whisk together the whole
  eggs, the yolk, the vanilla and the zest, add the mixture to the
  flour mixture, beating until a dough is formed and stir in the
  almonds.
    Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface, knead it several
  times and halve it. Working on a large buttered and floured baking
  sheet, with floured hands form each piece of dough into a flattish
  log 12 inches long and 2 inches wide, arrange the logs at least 3
  inches apart on the sheet, and brush them with the egg wash. Bake the
  logs in the middle of a preheated 300F for 50 minutes and them cool
  on the baking rack for 10 minutes.
    On a cutting board, cut the logs crosswise on the diagonal into 1/2
  inch thick slices, arrange the biscotti, cut sides down, on the
  baking sheet and bake them, in the 300F oven for 15 minutes on each
  side. Transfer the biscotti to racks to cool and store them in
  airtight containers. MAKES: about 48 BISCOTTI
  
  SOURCE: Gourmet, December 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Chocolate Biscotti
 Categories: Italian, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour; unbleached, all purp
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts -Salt
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Cloves, ground
      2 tb Cocoa; unsweetened, pref.
           -Dutch process
      2 tb Ginger, fresh;peeled, grated
    1/2 ts Almond extract
      3    Eggs, large
  1 1/4 c  Almonds, whole;blanched
           -toasted lightly &
           -chopped coarse
 
  Loosely inspired by the fresh ginger ice cream and chocolate sauce
  served by Barbara Tropp at her restaurant China Moon.
  
  In the bowl of an electric mixer, fitted with a paddle attachment,
  blend the flour, the sugar, the baking soda, the salt, the cinnamon,
  the cloves and the cocoa powder until the mixture is combined well.
  In a small bowl, whisk together the gingerroot, the almond extract
  and the eggs, add the mixture to the flour mixture, beating until a
  dough is formed, and stir in the almonds. Turn the dough onto a
  lightly floured surface, knead it several times and divide it into
  thirds. Working on a large buttered and floured baking sheet, with
  floured hands, form each piece of dough into a flattish log 10 inches
  long by 2 1/2 inches wide and arrange the logs at least 3 inches
  apart on the sheet. Bake the logs in the middle of a preheated 350F
  oven for 25 minutes and let them cool on the baking sheet on the rack
  for 10 minutes. On a cutting board cut the logs crosswise on the
  diagonal into 3/4 inch slices, arrange the biscotti, cut sides down,
  on the baking sheet, and bake them in the 350F oven for 5 minutes on
  each side. Transfer the biscotti to racks to cool and store them in
  airtight containers. MAKES: 36 BISCOTTI
  
  SOURCE: Gourmet December 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cappuccino Biscotti
 Categories: Italian, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2 c  Flour; unbleached, all purp
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts -Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Cloves, ground
    1/4 c  Espresso;strong brewed,cold&
      1 tb Espresso;strong brewed, cold
      1 tb Milk; &
      1 ts Milk
      1    Egg yolk, large
      1 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Hazelnuts; toasted, skinned*
           -chopped coarse
    1/2 c  Chocolate chips, semisweet
 
  *To toast & skin hazelnuts, put in one layer in preheated 350F oven
  for 10 to 15 minutes or until they are colored lightly and skins
  blistered. Wrap the nuts in a kitchen towel and let them steam for 1
  minute. Rub the nuts in the towel to remove as much skin as possible
  and let them cool.
  
  In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment,
  blend the flour, the sugar, the baking soda, the baking powder, the
  salt, the cinnamon and the cloves until the mixture is combined well.
  In a small bowl whisk together the espresso, the milk, the yolk and
  the vanilla, adding the mixture to the flour mixture , beating until
  a dough is formed, and stir in the hazelnuts and chocolate chips.
    Turn out the dough onto a floured surface, knead it several times
  and halve it. Working on a large buttered and floured baking sheet,
  with floured hands, form each piece of dough into a flattish log 12
  inches long by 2 inches wide and arrange the logs at least 3 inches
  apart on the sheet.
    Bake the logs in the middle of a preheated 350F oven for 35 minutes
  and let them cool on the baking sheet on a rack for about 10 minutes.
  Reduce the oven temperature to 300F. On a cutting board, cut the logs
  crosswise on the diagonal into 3/4 inch slices , arrange the
  biscotti, cut sides down, on the baking sheet, and bake them for 5 to
  6 minutes on each side, or until they are pale golden. Transfer the
  biscotti to racks to cool and store them in airtight containers.
  MAKES: about 32 BISCOTTI
  
  SOURCE: Gourmet magazine, December 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tender Cooker Chuck Roast
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
      3 lb Chuck roast
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Garlic clove, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Onion, cut up
      3    Potatoes, cut up
      1 tb Flour
 
  Heat oil in medium sized skillet, sear meat on all sides; place meat
  in Tender Cooker.  Add water, garlic, salt and pepper to skillet.
  Heat and scrape off any browned meat; pour mixture over meat. Arrange
  onion and potato on top of meat.  Place a single 7" circle of foil on
  top of food. Cover and add regulator guage, microwave on high 30
  minutes. Let pressure indicator drop, remove cover. Remove meat and
  vegies, add flour mixed with a little water, stir, microwave,
  uncovered, stir once, to thicken juices. (a 400-500 w oven needs an
  increase of time of 6 min.)
  
  That is their recipe - I don't do any of the above.  My roast is
  usually one with a lot less fat in in (as little as I can manage when
  I cut a big piece of meat into roast, steak and stew meat) and is
  almost always still frozen and so I don't brown it first.  I put the
  meat and water in the cooker, cover and cook on high 20 minutes. When
  the indicator drops, I add potatoes, onion, carrots, and such
  seasoning as I want at the time, rinse the rubber ring, replace ring,
  recover (with pressure cap) and micro on high for 10 minutes. Let
  pressure drop, thicken juices and enjoy!
  
  From Tender Cooker recipe booklet Posted by Sheila Exner, Feb. 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Pork Roast
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Pork roast
    1/2 c  Apple cider
    1/2 ts Dried sage
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Place pork roast in Tender Cooker, add cider, sprinkle with sage and
  pepper.  Cover, add indicator, and cook on high for 30 minutes.
  
  From Tender Cooker recipe booklet Posted by Sheila Exner - Feb. 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken 'n Stuffing
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 oz Pkg. stuffing mix
  2 1/2 lb Whole chicken
    1/2 ts Browning sauce
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Chicken bouillon granules
           Paprika
      2 tb Flour
 
  Clean chicken.  Prepare stuffing mix following package directions.
  Stuff chicken, secure wings and legs to chicken body with string.
  Combine browning sauce, water and bouillon.  Place chicken in Tender
  Cooker, pour water mixture over chicken, sprinkle with paprika. If
  breast bone is near the top of the cooker, cover with a narrow piece
  of foil. Cover pot, add regulator and microwave on high for 25
  minutes. Let pressure drop, remove chicken and thicken gravy by
  mixing flour with a little water and microwaving on high for 3 to 4
  minutes, stirring at least once.
  
  From Tender Cooker recipe booklet Posted by Sheila Exner, Feb. 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rose Wine (Rosatum)
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Bottles red wine
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/8 ts Rose water
      2    Fresh roses (old-fashioned
           Pink), washed
 
  1)  Pour the wine into a punch bowl.  Add the honey and rose water and
    stir gently. 2) Scatter the petals from the two fresh roses over the
  surface of the
    wine. 3) Serve into individual glasses, cups, or goblets.
  
  NOTE:  Rose water should be available at any Greek grocery.  Be sure
  that the fresh rose petals are washed of harmful insecticides.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wine of Spice and Surprise  (Conditum Paradoxum)
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Bottles red wine
    3/4 c  Honey
      1 ts Ground pepper
    1/4 ts Saffron
    1/2 ts Pounded mastic (optional)
      2    Bay leaves
      4    Pitted dates
 
  1) Pour the wine, honey, pepper, saffron, mastic (optional), and bay
  leaves into a large jar which has a tight fitting lid.  Stir well. 2)
  Mash the dates with your fingers, and add to the wine mixture.  Seal
  and refrigerate for 1 day. 3) Pour the punch into a punch bowl, and
  serve in individual glasses, cups, or goblets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Alexandrian Cumin Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Unbleached, all-purpose
           Flour
      1 pk Dried yeast
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cumin seed, ground
      1 c  Plus 3 oz. lukewarm water
 
     1) Place the flour, yeast, salt, and ground cumin in a large mixing
  bowl.  Blend well.  Add the water and mix the dough for 2-3 minutes,
  until all the water is absorbed and evenly distributed.  The dough
  will be damp and very sticky, but no internal dry areas should appear
  by the end of the mixing.  If they do, mix a few minutes more, or add
  a little more water and mix again.
  
     2) Let the dough rest 5 minutes.  Now sprinkle 1 or 2 tbsps. flour
  over the dough and knead, either in the bowl or on a lightly floured
  surface for 5-10 minutes, until the dough is smooth and elastic and
  only slightly sticky.  Add more flour if needed (e.g. in humid
  weather).  Let the dough rest for 2 minutes more.
  
     3) The dough should now be very smooth and easy to handle.  Knead
  30 seconds more, return the dough to the bowl, cover the bowl with a
  dish towel or large plate, and let rise at room temperature for at
  least 3 hours; the dough should almost triple in size.
  
     4) Flour the top of the dough lightly, punch it down, and remove
  the dough from the mixing bowl.  Form the dough into a rectangular
  loaf and place in a well greasad loaf pan, 9-1/4 in. by 5-1/4 in. by
  2-3/4 in. Cover with a towel and let rise 1 hr., until nicely risen.
  
     5) Bake in a preheated 400 degree oven for 35 minutes, until
  browned on top; the bottom of the bread should sound hollow when
  tapped with the finger.  Let the bread cool, then serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cato's Cheese Bread (Libum)
 Categories: Bread, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Feta cheese, drained,
           Crumbled, and packed into
           The measuring cup
    1/2 c  Unbleached, all-purpose
           Flour
      1    Egg, beaten
      6    Bay leaves
      2 tb Honey
 
     1) Put the cheese into a medium sized mixing bowl.  Mash well with
  the fingers until it becomes a smooth, lumpless paste.  Add the flour
  and mix well with the fingers.  Add the beaten egg and mix well.  The
  dough will be rather sticky.
  
     2) Divide the dough into two equal parts, then form two round,
  flat, 1/2 inch thick loaves.  Lay each on three bay leaves set on a
  greased baking sheet, and bake in a preheated 400 degree oven for 1
  to 1-1/2 hours, or until cooked through.
  
     3) Remove the loaves from the oven, spread the tops with the
  honey, and let cool.  Remove the bay leaves before serving. NOTE: If
  feta cheese is unavailable, use 1 cup cottage cheese and add 1/4 cup
  extra flour (but the taste is inferior).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cato's Grape Bread (Mustaceus)
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Unbleached, all-purpose
           Flour
    1/2 c  Lard, shortening, or butter
           Melted and cooled
    1/4 c  Feta cheese, crumbled and
           Mashed into a paste
      1 ts Cumin seed, ground
      1 ts Anise, ground
  1 1/2 c  Grape juice, purple or white
      1 pk Dry yeast
      8    Bay leaves
 
     1) Place the flour, lard, mashed cheese, ground cumin and anise,
  and yeast in a large mixing bowl.  Blend well.  Add the grape juice
  and mix the dough well for 2-3 minutes until all the grape juice is
  absorbed and evenly distributed.  The dough will be damp and sticky,
  but no internal dry areas should appear by the end of the mixing.  If
  they do, mix a few minutes more or add a little more grape juice and
  mix again.
  
     2) Let the dough rest 5 minutes.  Now sprinkle 1 or 2 tbsp. flour
  over the dough and knead, either in the bowl or on a lightly floured
  surface for 5-10 minutes, until the dough is smooth and elastic and
  only slightly sticky.  Add more flour if needed.  Let the dough rest
  2 minutes.
  
     3) The dough should now be very smooth and easy to handle.  Knead
  30 seconds more, return the dough to the bowl, cover the bowl with a
  dish towel or large plate, and let rise at room temperature for at
  least 3 hours.
  
     4) Sprinkle top with flour, punch down, and form the dough into 4
  rectangular loaves (4 in. by 2 in. by 2-1/2 in.).  Place two bay
  leaves on the bottom of each loaf, and lay them, leaf side down, on a
  greased cookie sheet.  Cover with a towel and let rise for 1 hour,
  until well risen.
  
     5) Bake in a preheated 400 degree oven for 35 minutes, until the
  loaves are brown on top and make a hollow sound when tapped on the
  bottom. Serve when cool. NOTE: To make these breads without
  leavening, omit the yeast, knead the dough thoroughly, then bake at
  350 degrees for about 2 hours. They will be chewy and moist, and very
  foreign to our taste. The Romans thought unleaven bread was manlier
  and much better for the digestion.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Columella Salad (Moretum)
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Head iceberg or romaine
           Lettuce
    1/2 ts Savory
      2 ts Mint
      2 ts Fresh rue, chopped (opt.)
      2 ts Fresh coriander, chopped
           (opt.)
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
      4    Green onions, trimmed and
           Chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme
    3/4 c  Feta cheese, crumbled
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    3/4 c  Walnuts, chopped
 
     1) Wash and dry the lettuce leaves; cut or tear into bite-size
  pieces and place into a salad bowl.  Add the remaining ingredients
  and toss lightly.
  
  NOTE:  Lightly toasted sesame seeds may be substituted for the
  walnuts. To make moretum more authentically, use only two lettuce
  leaves; place them and the remaining green ingredients into a blender
  and blend well. Transfer to a mixing bowl, and add the cheese and
  ground pepper.  Form into a ball. Add the vinegar and oil in sparing
  amounts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lettuce with Sweet Oxyporum Dressing
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Head iceberg lettuce
      1 ts Cumin seed, ground
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 ts Fresh rue, chopped (opt.)
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
    1/3 c  Honey
      3 tb White vinegar
      1 tb Liquamen (sep. recipe)
      2    Pitted dates
 
     1) Wash and dry the lettuce; cut or tear into bite-size pieces and
  place into a salad bowl.
  
     2) Combine the ground cumin, ginger, rue (optional), pepper, honey,
  vinegar, and liquamen.  Squash the dates with your fingers and add
  them to the spices.  Mix well so that the dates break into small
  fibers.
  
     3) Pour over the lettuce and serve. NOTE: Try adding 1/3 tsp.
  baking soda.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet and Sour Cucumber Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Cucumbers, peeled
      1 oz Sweet wine OR
      1 tb Honey
      2 ts Wine vinegar
      2 ts Liquamen (sep. recipe)
      1    Pinch of pennyroyal
           (or mint)
      1    Pinch of asafetida (opt.)
           Black pepper and salt to
           Taste
 
     1) Slice the cucumbers into thin, 1/8 inch slices and arrange them
  neatly around a serving plate.
  
     2) Mix the sweet wine or honey, the vinegar, liquamen, pennyroyal
  (or mint), and asafetida (optional) and pour over the cucumber slices.
  
     3) Season with salt and pepper to taste (as the Romans would have
  done at the table), and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roman Coleslaw
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 md Cabbage
      3 oz Olive oil
      1 tb Liquamen (sep. recipe)
      1 tb White wine
    1/2 ts Cumin seed, ground
      1 ts Caraway seed
      1    Leek, trimmed, chopped fine
      1    Coriander leaf, chopped
           (optional)
           Pepper and salt to taste
 
     1) Peel off the tough outer layers of the cabbage and core the
  remainder.  Boil the cored cabbage in enough water to cover for 15-20
  minutes, until tender.  Drain, then rinse the cabbage in cold water
  until cool.  Drain again, then chop well.
  
     2) Mix together the remaining ingredients and pour over the chopped
  cabbage.  Mix well and serve.
  
  NOTE:  This recipe may be prepared without chopping the cabbage
  leaves; also, with the cabbage still warm; and lastly, with 2 boiled
  and sliced leeks added to it.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nicomedes' Anchovy
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 md Turnip
           Salt
           Poppy seed
      1 tb Olive oil
 
     1) Trim and peel the turnip, then slice it into thin pieces which
  are shaped like anchovy filets.  Drop the pieces into rapidly boiling
  water and boil for 3-5 minutes, until they are tender but not too
  soft. Drain.
  
     2) Arrange the turnip pieces neatly on a plate.  Pour the oil over
  them, making sure all the surfaces of the turnips are covered.
  
     3) Salt the turnips liberally, then sprinkle on the poppy seeds
  carefully, covering all the exposed surfaces, but keeping the poppy
  seeds on the "anchovies" only.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pliny's Pear Butter
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 2 servings
 
     12    Pears, peeled, cored, and
           Minced
      2 c  Sweet wine
      2 c  Water
      3 oz Honey
 
     1) Combine all ingredients in a saucepan, bring to a boil, and
  simmer for 30 minutes to 1 hour, until all the liquid has disappeared.
  
     2) Let cool, and transfer into a jar.  Add a little more honey if
  you desire a sweeter taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roman Pickles
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Head of lettuce
      2 c  Vinegar
      1 c  Water
      3 ts Salt
      2 ts Dill weed or dill seed
      2 ts Fennel, fresh or seed
      1 ts Rue (optional)
 
     1) Combine the water and salt in a 1-quart jar which has a tight
  fitting lid.  Add the vinegar, dill, fennel, and rue.
  
     2) Separate the lettuce leaves and add them to the liquid.  Seal
  the jar and let sit until ready (about 48 hours) NOTE: The original
  recipe from Columella calls for salting the lettuce first, letting it
  "sweat" for 24 hours, and then pickling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut Spread
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     15    Walnuts, shelled (about 1
           Cup)
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
      2 ts Liquamen (sep. recipe)
      2 ts Grape juice or sweet wine
      2 ts Olive oil
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
           Garnish of parsley or water
           Cress and walnut halves
 
     1) Grind the walnuts in a blender, or pound them in a mortar until
  pulverized.  Transfer to a mixing bowl.
  
     2) Add the remaining ingredients and blend well.  Place the spread
  on a flat serving dish and form into the shape of a fish.  Decorate by
  surrounding with parsley (or cress) and unbroken walnut halves.
  
     3) Serve with bread, rolls, crackers, or by itself. NOTE: The
  Romans preferred the taste of walnuts with their thin inner skins
  removed. To do this, drop the walnut meats into boiling water for 30
  seconds. Drain immediately, rinse under cold water, and then peel off
  the thin inner skins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chopped Liver (Sulsum Sine Sulso)
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Chicken livers
    3/4 c  Olive oil
           Salt and pepper
 
     1) Heat 1/4 cup of the olive oil in a frying pan and gently saute
  the chicken livers for 10 minutes, turning occasionally, until cooked
  through.
  
     2) Remove the cooked livers, place in a mixing bowl, and mash well
  with a fork (or use a blender).  Add another 1/4 cup of the oil, salt
  and pepper to taste, and mix well with the liver.
  
     3) Place the chopped liver in a serving dish and shape it into the
  likeness of a fish.  Pour the remaining 1/4 cup oil on top of the
  fish. Serve. NOTE: Liquamen (recipe posted earlier) may be used in
  addition to or in place of the salt. Apicius' recipe calls for a fish
  mold; if you have a fish-shaped gelatin mold, you could not be more
  authentic.  If it is a large one, however, you may have to double the
  recipe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Avocado Soup with Radishes & Cilantro Cream
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Avocado oil
      1 tb Walnut Oil or 3 T. Fruity
           Olive Oil
      1 md Yellow Onion, chopped
      4    Cloves Garlic, peeled and
           Minced
      1    Piece of Ginger,1 1/2 inches
           Long, peeled and minced
      3    Serrano or jalapeno chili
           Peppers, stemmed, seeded and
           Minced
      4 c  Chicken stock
      3    Ripe Avocados, preferably
           The Haas variety
      2    Limes
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Half-and-half
    1/4 c  Cilantro leaves, very finely
           Minced
      1 ts Ground Coriander
           Salt
      1 bn Radishes, 10-12
           Black pepper
 
   Heat the Avocado oil or two tablespoons of the olive oil in a
  saucepan and add chopped onion. Saute for 5 minutes and add garlic,
  ginger and 2 of the peppers. Saute for another 5 minutes. Add the
  stock, simmer for 10 minutes and remove from heat.
   While the stock and vegetables are simmering, cut the Avocados in
  half and seed and peel them. Chop the Avocados, toss them with the
  juice of 1 lime and place about half the Avocado in a blender
  container. Add hot stock and vegetables until container is about 3/4
  full and process until the mixture is smooth and liquid. Chill the
  soup thoroughly, preferably for several hours.
   To make the cilantro cream, stir the sour cream and half-and-half
  together, add the chopped cilantro, the remaining chili pepper, the
  ground coriander and salt to taste. Chill until you are ready to use
  it.
   Cut the radishes in small julienne and toss with the walnut oil or
  the remaining olive oil, the juice of 1/2 lime and salt to taste.
  Chill until you are ready to use them.
   Taste the chilled soup and add salt and more lime juice to taste.
  Ladle it into chilled soup bowls. Top each serving with a tablespoon
  of cilantro cream and a tablespoon of julienned radishes.
  
  Variation This soup is also delicious when served hot and is an ideal
  opening to a hearty Mexican meal.
  
  From: The Good Cook's Book of Oil & Vinegar by Michele Anna Jordan
  
  Posted By: Charles Walstrom 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Jerky a la Willie
 Categories: Beef, Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lo salt soy sauce
  1 1/4 ts Onion powder
    1/3 c  Worcestershire Sauce
  1 1/4 ts Garlic powder
  2 1/3 ts Pepper
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 lb Lean beef
           Liquid mesquite smoke *
 
  * use in place of smoker.
  
  Mix all ingredients except beef to make marinade.  Cut thinly sliced
  beef into 1/2 inch strips and marinate for 8 to 12 hours. Smoke using
  mesquite chips for about three hours and then finish drying in oven.
  If doing whole operation in oven use liquid smoke and hang strips of
  beef on highest rack and put shallow pan underneath to catch
  drippings. Turn oven on and set to lowest possible setting and leave
  for 6 to 8 hours until thoroughly dried. A couple of hints that I
  picked up from one of the cooking echos. Use toothpicks or wooden
  skewers to hang meat by, and put a couple of layers of paper towels
  in the pan to collect the drippings and save cleaning problems later
  on.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Catfish Baked with Cheese
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Catfish Fillets (about 2 lb)
    1/4 c  Flour
           Black pepper to taste
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
      8 tb Butter, melted
    1/2 c  Fresh grated Parmesan
           Cheese
           Salt to taste
      1 ts Paprika
      1 tb Milk
 
                                             1/4 c  Sliced almonds 1.
  Preheat oven to 350 deg. 2. Wipe the catfish dry 3. Blend together
  the cheese, flour, salt, pepper, and paprika 4. Combine the egg and
  milk in a flat dish 5. Dip the fillets in the egg mixture, and then
  coat with the cheese mixture. Arrange the fillets in one layer in a
  baking dish, and pour the butter over all. Sprinkle with the almonds.
  6. Place in oven and bake for 20 minutes
  
  From Craig Claiborne's "Southern Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: See's Fudge Candy (The "Original" Recipe!)
 Categories: Candy, Dessert
      Yield: 25 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 pk Chocolate chips (12 oz ea)
    1/2 lb Margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 cn Evaporated milk
      7 oz Marshmallow cream
      2 c  Nuts
 
  Mix 4 1/2 cups sugar with one (1) can evaporated milk.  Boil 7 to 8
  minutes, stirring often. (rolling boil)
  
  Mix together in a large bowl; 3 packages chocolate chips, 7 oz. jar
  marshmallow cream, 1/2 lb. melted margarine.
  
  Cream margarine and marshmallow together and add chocolate chips.
  
  Pour hot mixture over chocolate mixture.
  
  After chocolate has melted, add 2 cups of nuts and 1 tsp. of vanilla,
  blend well, pour into buttered pans and chill in refrigerator.  Cut
  into squares before firm.
  
  This recipe makes about 5 lbs of fudge.  No one has attempted a
  calorie count, but it's estimated that each piece contains about 47
  gazillion calories.  Dieters, beware!
  
  HISTORICAL NOTE:  Given to Amy DeVore by Emma Julian c. 1930, this is
  "supposedly" the original recipe for See's Fudge, produced by the
  See's Candy Company, Los Angeles.  Emma allegedly worked for See's
  and later owned her own candy store.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Au Gratin
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Eggplant (about 1 lb.)
    1/2 lb Fresh Mushrooms
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
    1/2 c  Milk
           Pepper, to taste
           Tabasco, to taste
      2 tb Bread crumbs
           Salt to taste
  3 1/2 tb Butter
  1 1/2 tb Flour
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 425 deg. 2. Peel the eggplant and cut the flesh
  into 1" cubes, more or less.  Drop the cubes into boiling salted
  water, cook about 5 minutes, just until cooked. Drain well. 3.
  Meanwhile, slice the mushrooms.  There should be about 2 cups.  Heat
  1 tablespoon butter in a skillet and add the mushroom slices.
  Sprinkle with salt and about 1 teaspoon lemon juice.  Cook, stirring
  and tossing, until the mushrooms give up their juice.  Continue
  cooking until the liquid evaporates. Set aside. 4.  Melt 1 1/2
  tablespoons butter in a saucepan and add the flour, stirring with a
  wire whisk.  Add the milk and cream, stirring rapidly with the whisk.
  When blended and smooth, add salt and pepper to taste, the remaining
  lemon juice, nutmeg, and Tabasco to taste.  Stir in the mushrooms and
  eggplant.  Stir in the egg.  Spoon the mixture into a baking dish (an
  8" pie plate works well).  Sprinkle with a mixture of crumbs and
  cheese and dot the remaining 1 tablespoon butter.  Bake 30 to 40
  minutes, and then brown under the broiler.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mrs. Fields Apricot Nectar Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 42 servings
 
  2 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking Soda
    3/4 c  White sugar
    1/4 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Salted butter, softened
      1 lg Egg
    1/4 c  Apricot Nectar
    1/2 c  Apricot preserves
    3/4 c  Dried apricots, chopped
 
  1. Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
  
  2. In a medium bowl, combine flour and baking soda.  Mix well with a
  wire wisk and set aside.
  
  3. In a large bowl, blend sugars with an electric mixer at medium
  speed. Add butter and mix to form a grainy paste.  Scrape down sides
  of bowl. Then add egg, apricot nectar and apricot preserves; beat at
  medium speed until smooth.
  
  4. Add the flour mixture and apricots, and blend on low just until
  combined.  Do not overmix.
  
  5. Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets, 1 1/2
  inches apart.  Bake for *22* to 24 minutes, or just unil cookies
  begin to brown at bottom edges.
  
  6.Remove from oven and let cookies cool on baking sheets for five
  minutes before transferring to a clool, flat surface with a spatula.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili-Beef-Potato Soup
 Categories: Beef, Chili, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 cn Tomatoes (16 oz), cut up
      2 c  Potatoes, peeled & diced
      1 cn Condensed beef broth
           - (10 1/2 oz)
      1 cn Water (1 1/3 cups)
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Worchestershire sauce
      1 c  Cooked or leftover peas
           -green beans
 
  Brown meat in saucepan. Drain off fat.  Add onion and celery and cook
  until vegetales are tender-crisp. Stir in tomatoes, potatoes, beef
  broth, water, chili powder, salt, and Worchester sauce. Cover and
  cook until potatoes are tender (about 15 min.)  Stir in peas or
  beans; heat through. From "Better Homes and Gardens: Good Food on a
  Budget" c.1971.
  
  I personally, would use more chili powder and Worchestershire.
  
  Posted by Bud Cloyd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rich Delicious Orange Tea Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar,
      2 ts Baking powder,
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine melted,
    1/2 c  Fresh orange juice
      2    Eggs,
  1 1/2 c  Flour,
           Grated rind of 1 orange

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
           Sugar cubes
           Orange juice
 
  Preheat oven to 375F, prepare pans. Combine first 4 ingredients &
  blend well. Melt butter, take off heat & stir in orange juice, rind &
  eggs. Beat. Stir dry mix into wet mix and blend until just moistened.
  Spoon into pans, soak 1 sugar cube in orange juice for each muffin
  and place on top of batter. Bake for 15-20 mins or until done. Makes
  8-9 large muffins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham with Potatoes and Green Beans
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    HAM (w/ bone) 3-5 lbs.
           A buncha potatoes
           A couple a handfuls of
           Cut green beans (canned is
           OK in a pinch)
 
   Get a big pot o' water (enough to sink the ham), slow boil the ham
  'til it starts falling off the bone, quarter the spuds, and when
  they're about done, drop in the beans. Season to taste.  That's the
  extent of my cooking prowess, try it, it's cheap, and it's easy, and
  it tastes pretty good (to my palate, anyway).
  
  Source: Chip North
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tentsuyu Sauce
 Categories: Japanese, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Light broth
    1/3 c  Mirin OR
    1/3 c  Sweet sherry OR
    1/3 c  Honey
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
      1 ts MSG; (optional)
           Daikon radish; 1" piece
           Horseradish
           Ginger; grated, to taste
           Lemon juice; optional
 
  Mix all ingredients except the horseradish, ginger and lemon juice.
  Bring to a boil, and remove from heat.  Grate the radish.  Hydrate the
  horseradish if you are using the dried product.
  
  For serving, put warm sauce into individual bowls.  Place a heap of
  the radish topped with horseradish on each plate of fried food.  Each
  person should mix as much of this with his sauce as suits his taste.
  Add the lemon juice if desired.  This sauce used mainly with Tempura.
  
      Source:  Practical Japanese Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seven Flavor Chicken
 Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Soy sauce, divided
      2 tb Sesame oil, divided
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2    Boneless, skinless chicken
           Breast halves, cut into
           Thin strips.
      8 oz Uncooked vermicelli
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Distilled white vinegar
      2 tb Vegetable oil, divided
      1 md Carrot, julienned
    1/4 lb Fresh snow peas, trimmed
           And julienned
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions and
           Tops
      1 tb Minced fresh ginger root
    3/4 ts Crushed red pepper
 
  Blend 1 tbsp each soy sauce and sesame oil with cornstarch; stir in
  chicken.  Let stand 10 minutes.  Break vermicelli in half and cook
  according to package directions, omitting salt; drain and keep warm in
  large mixing bowl.  Dissolve sugar in remaining soy sauce, sesame oil
  and vinegar; set aside.  Heat 1 tbsp vegetable oil in hot wok or
  large skillet over high heat.  Add chicken and stir fry 3 minutes,
  remove. Heat remaining vegetable oil in same pan.  Add carrot and
  snow peas;stir fry 1 minutes. Add remaining 3 ingredients and stir
  fry 1 minutes longer. Remove from heat; stir in chicken and venegar
  mixture. Pour over vermicelli and toss together to combine.  Serve
  immediately.
  
  Origin: Journal American, January 13 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Baskets with Caper Dip
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Artichokes (about 12oz each)
    1/2 c  Fat free mayonnaise
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 tb Small capers, OR
      1 sm Pickle, chopped
      1 tb Caper or pickle brine
 
  Impress your favorite valentine with these lovely artichoke baskets
  filled with a creamy fat free dip. FOR ARTICHOKES: With sharp knife,
  cut off stems. With scissors, snip off prickly tips. Rinse and shake
  ff water. Wrap artichokes in plastic wrap and place on microwave safe
  plate or place in a microwave safe casserole. Add 1/4 cup water and
  cover. Place in microwave and cook on high 5-1/2 to 8-1/2 minutes
  until lower leaves can be pulled off and base pierces easily with fork
  
  rotate and rearrange halfway through cooking.  Let stand 3-5 minutes.
  
  TO PREPARE DIP: In small bowl combine mayonnaise, garlic, capers and
  caper brine.
  
  TO PREPARE BASKET:  Remove 1/4 of one side of artichoke leaves;
  reserve leaves
  
   Carefully remove and discard the choke.  Place on small plate. Fill
  inside of basket with caper kip and allow some to spill out onto the
  plate. Chill until ready to serve. If desired serve with reserved
  artichoke leaves. NOTE* If desired, artichokes can be cooked on stove
  top. Place trimmed artichokes stem side down in small saucepot just
  big enough to hold them snugly.  Pour boiling water to a depth of 1
  inch,cover and steam 45 minutes over medium heat until done as above.
  With tongs, remove from pot; drain. Makes 2 servings, 129 calories
  each.
  
  Origin: Women's World, February 16, 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beets in Onion Vinaigrette
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------FOR THE ONION VINAIGRETTE----------------------
      2 md Onions
    1/2 ts Kosher salt
    1/8 ts Cracked black pepper
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 tb Champagne or sherry vinegar

MMMMM--------------------FOR THE GLAZED BEETS-------------------------
      1    Onion
      1 tb Butter
      3 md Beets
    1/4 ts Kosher salt
           Black pepper, to taste
  2 1/2 tb Sugar
           Chopped chives or parsley
 
  VINAIGRETTE Peel onions, trim root and top ends. Halve onions from
  top to bottom,then slice lengthwise into thin julienne strips, about
  2 inch long, 1/8" by 1/8" thick. Place onions in a glass bowl or
  other microwave safe container; season with salt and pepper. Add
  olive oil and vinegar. Marinate 20 minutes.
  
  BEETS Peel, trim and cut onion as for vinaigrette. combine onion and
  butter in a 1 quart glass baking dish.  cover with plastic wrap and
  pierce twice to allow steam to escape.  Cook on 100 percent power for
  1 minutes in a microwave oven.  Reserve.  Wash and peel beets; trim
  root and stem ends. Slice 1/8th inch thick; cut slices into 1/8 inch
  strips. Julienne strips should be the same size. Salt and pepper,
  toss gently.  cover with vented plastic and cook on high, stirring
  occassionally, 7-8 minutes or until almost tender.  Sprinkle with
  sugar,toss gently, and cook on high for 7-8 more minutes or until the
  liquid has a syrupy consistency.  Remove dish from oven and let
  stand, covered,2-3 minutes.  Adjust seasoning if necessary.  Cover
  bowl containing onion vinaigrette with plastic wrap. Cook on high
  foor 5 minutes or until onions soften slightly.  Spoon hot
  vinaigrette onto four to six plates, arranging onion in a ring.
  Divide the beet mixture among the plates, mounding it in the center
  of each ring of onions.  Sprinkle with chives or parsley.  Makes 4-6
  servings.
  
  Origin: Journal American, January 13, 1993. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bourbon Balls
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 18 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Confectioner's sugar,
           Divided
      1 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    1/2 c  Pecans
      1 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
      3 tb Bourbon
      2 tb Light corn syrup
 
  In bowl of food processor, combine 1 cup confectoner's sugar, graham
  cracker crumbs, pecans and cocoa. Process with quick on/off pulses.
  Add bourbon and corn syrup. Process, using quick on/off pulses, until
  mixture begins to hold together. Press and roll mixtue into 1 inch
  balls. Toss each ball in remaining 1/2 cup confectioners sugar to
  coat. Store in tightly covered container at room temperature. NOTE:
  If desired, pecans can be finely chopped and ingredients mixed
  together by hand. Makes about 18 balls.
  
  Origin: Women's World, February 16, 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruity Buckwheat Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
      1 c  Peeled, cored, finely
           Choppped Granny Smith
           Apples
    3/4 c  Buckwheat flour
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Chopped, pitted dates
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/8 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Non fat buttermilk
      2 tb Oil
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
 
  combine flour, apples, buckwheat flour, sugar, dates, baking
  powder,baking soda and salt in large bowl.  Make well in centre of
  mixture. combine buttermilk, oil and egg in another bowl and add to
  dry ingredients, stirring just until moistened. divide batter evenly
  among muffin cups coated with cooking spray. Bake at 375F for 20
  minutes. Remove from pan immediately. Let cool on wire racks. Makes
  12 muffins
  
  Origin: Journal American, January 13 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Decadent Chocolate Hearts
 Categories: Chocolate, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Slices (1/2 oz each) fat
           Free marble poundcake.
      3    Strawberries, divided
      2    Drops red food coloring
    1/2 c  Reduced calorie nondairy
           Whipped topping
 
  Just cut heart shapes from slices of fat free marble poundcake and
  fill with a cloudlike strawberry filling With a 3 inch heart shaped
  cookie cutter, or sharp knife, cut each poundcake slice into a heart.
  Place 1 strawberry in small bowl.  With fork, mash well. Fold
  strawberry mash and red food coloring into whipped topping.  Place a
  poundcake heart on 2 dessert plates.  (if you like, place strawberry
  topping mixture into piping bag fitted with decorative tip.)  Chill 5
  minutes. Pipe o
  
  spoon strawberry topping mixture onto each heart.  Top with remaining
  hearts. Garnish with remaining strawberries. Makes 2 servings, 110
  calories each.
  
  Origin: Women's World, February 16, 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Corn Tamales
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 24 servings
 
     12    Ears of fresh white or
           Yellow corn
      1 lb Monterrey Jack cheese,
           Grated
      1 lb Pure lard
    1/2 lb Butter
    1/2 c  (scant) sugar
    1/4 c  Light cream, or more
      2    Green chiles, parched and
           Peeled
      1 lb Cheddar or Longhorn cheese
           Salt
 
     1.  Chop stalk end of each ear of corn flush with the base of the
  ear. Shuck, being careful to keep corn husks intact for later use.
  Wash husks, and drain.
  
     2.  Cut corn off cobs.  Grind corn with the Jack cheese in a meat
  grinder, blender or food processor.
  
     3.  Cream lard and butter to a smooth and fluffy consistency with
  an electric mixer at medium speed.  Add the ground corn and cheese
  mixture, sugar, cream and salt to taste.  Continue to mix with the
  electric mixer until mixture looks like whipped cream. Add more cream
  if mixture is dry.
  
     4.  Cut the roasted green chiles into long strips.  Spread about 2
  tablespoons of the corn mixture on each corn husk.  Spread mixture
  out into a rectangle and allow at least 2 inches of husk to extend
  below the corn mixture and a few inches of margin on both sides of
  the husk. Place about 2 strips of green chile down the center of the
  corn mixture, then sprinkle with a few pinches of the grated Cheddar
  cheese.
  
     5.  Hold the two sides of the tamale together to make the corn
  mixture fold up around the filling.  Then tuck one edge of the husk
  over the top of the tamale and roll, tying the ends with strips of
  corn husks. If preferred, the bottom end of the husk can be folded up
  before rolling. If you plan to freeze the tamales, freeze them at
  this point.
  
     6.  Place the tamales upright on a rack in a pressure cooker or
  large steaming kettle.  Before the rack is completely filled with
  tamales, pour 1 to 2 cups water into the bottom of the pan, about 1/2
  inch deep.
  
     7.  Steam at 15 lbs pressure for 25 minutes, or in a conventional
  steamer for 45 minutes.  Serve warm with Green Chile Sauce, plain, or
  with beef, pork or chicken added.  These may be kept in the
  refrigerator for 3 to 4 days.
  
  Makes 24 tamales.
  
  Freezing Hint:  Package tamales in plastic bags, 12 per package
                  or other suitable quantity.  If packaging large
                  quantities, keep track of the contents on a
                  card. Maximum Recommended Freezer Storage: 1 year
  
  From:  JANE BUTEL'S TEX-MEX COOKBOOK by Jane Butel, Harmony Books,
         New York.  1980.  ISBN 0-517-539861 Posted by: Karin Brewer,
  Cooking Echo, 1/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moyettes (Cinnamon Sugar Crusted Sweet Bread)
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      5 c  Sifted all purpose flour
      2 c  Sugar
           Salt
      3 tb Butter OR oil
      1    Active dry yeast (use 2
           Packages if time is short)
      1 c  Warm water (105 - 115F)
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
    1/2 c  Melted butter
      2 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Anise extract OR
    1/4 c  Aniseeds
 
     1.  Sift flour, 1 cup sugar adn salt together.  Cut in the butter
  until the mixture resembles coarse meal.  If using oil, stir oil into
  liquid ingredients after adding the egg.
  
     2.  Dissolve yeast in warm water, stir vigorously, and allow to
  ferment for 5 to 10 minutes.  Then add the egg and anise extract or
  aniseeds.
  
     3.  Add a small quantity of the flour mixture to the yeast and beat
  until thoroughly blended.  Let stand for a few minutes, or until dough
  becomes light and airy.
  
     4.  Add the rest of the flour mixture, adding more flour if
  necessary to make a stiff dough.  Knead on a lightly floured board
  until satiny.
  
     5.  Butter the top of the dough, cover with wax paper and let rise
  until doubled.
  
     6.  When the bread has risen, punch it down, and let it rise until
  doubled again.
  
     7.  Knead the dough slightly, then form into balls the size of an
  orange.  With a rolling pin, flatten to 1/2 to 3/4 inch thick.
  
     8.  Prepare a topping by mixing together the melted butter,
  remaining 1 cup sugar and the cinnamon.  Spread topping on all sides
  of the rolls.
  
     9.  Let rolls rise until light and about doubled in size. When
  nearly doubled, preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Bake in a preheated
  oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden. Slice thinly and butter
  generously with soft butter. Arrange slices on a platter as desired.
  They will keep for 2 to 3 days at room temperature when well wrapped.
  
  Maximum recommended freezer storage:  3 months
  
  Makes 8 to 10 small loaves.
  
  From:  JANE BUTEL'S TEX-MEX COOKBOOK by Jane Butel, Harmony
         Books, New York.  1980.  ISBN 0-517-539861 Shared by: Karin
  Brewer, Cooking Echo, 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Salad with Mustard-Soy Sauce
 Categories: Salad, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------THE SALAD------------------------------
      2 c  (approx.) mixed greens
      8    Slices cooked loin of pork,
           At room temperature
      1    Red bell pepper, seeded and
           Cut into thick slices

MMMMM----------------------THE VINAIGRETTE---------------------------
      2 tb Dijon mustard
  1 1/2 ts Soy sauce
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Wine vinegar
  3 1/2 tb Olive oil
      1    Pepper
 
  You can add all sorts of food you might happen to find in the
  refrigerator to fill this salad out - hard-boiled egg wedges, anchovy
  filets, black olives, red grapes, celery sticks, or cooked
  vegetables. Serve with warm toast triangles.
     1.  Assemble the salad:  Arrange the greens in the center of the
  plate and surround with the pork and pepper slices.
  
     2.  Prepare the vinaigrette:  In a small bowl, mix the mustard
  with the soy sauce, lemon juice, and vinegar.  Whisk in the olive oil
  and season with pepper.  Drizzle over the pork and greens.
  
  Serves 4.
  
  From:  LEFTOVERS by Kathy Gunst, Harper Perennial, New York.
       1991  Shared by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ajiaco
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 c  Unsalted chicken stock
      4    Ears yellow corn, shucked,
           Sliced into 1-inch thick
           Wheels
      3 lb Chicken, cut into bite size
           Pieces.
      2 ts Sweet paprika
      1 c  Onions finely diced
      3 c  Milk
      2 lg Yucca peeled and cut into
           Inch thick dice.
           Juice of one lime.
 
  This recipe is for a Cuban stew/soup that I used to enjoy con mucho
  gusto. This version of Ajiaco was prepared by Senora Garcia in her
  little store front restaurant on Collins Ave. in Miami Beach.
  Although this is not her exact recipe, it's the closest I could get
  to it. Ajico del Restaurant Garcia ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Melt
  the butter in a 6 qt. pot over medium heat.  Cook chicken pieces in
  the butter until no longer pink. Remove chicken with slotted spoon
  and place in in a bowl. Put onion, garlic, cayenne, and paprika in
  pot and cook while stirring, until onion is translucent and colored
  with the paprika.  Add stock, milk, yuca, corn, and chicken to the
  pot.  Bring almost to a boil then reduce heat, cover and simmer,
  stirring every now and then, for about 1 hour, or until yucca is
  tender.  Remove from heat and stir in lime juice. Serve with Cuban or
  French bread that has been sliced and broiled until golden.
  
  As an alternative frozen corn on the cob will work, as well as fresh
  frozen kernels.  The fresh corn cob seems to impart a nice flavor to
  this dish.
  
  If you're wondering what to do with the wheels of corn, just pick 'em
  up with your fingers and nibble 'round the rims.
  
  This dish recieved rave reviews at the 1991 Blind Pass Marina Xmas
  Party.
  
  UL'd 12-16-91 by Bob Springer
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger-Banana Chutney
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Onions, chopped
      6    Ripe bananas, put through a
           Food mill
    3/4 lb Pitted dates, chopped
  1 1/2 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 lb Crystallized ginger, minced
    1/2 lb Raisins, chopped
      2 c  Fresh or unsweetened canned
           Pineapple juice
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Curry powder
 
  Most people think of Trinidad, Guyana, and Martinique when they think
  of East Indian influences on Caribbean cooking. Jamaica, however, has
  had its share of that influence as well, as proved by this chutney
  that is prepared from bananas and ginger. Makes about 3 1/2 cups.
  Place the onions, bananas, dates, and vinegar in a nonreactive
  saucepan. Stir them to mix well and cook over low heat for 20
  minutes. Add the remaining ingredients and stir to make sure they are
  well combined. Continue to cook until the chutney has a jamlike
  consistency. Remove from the heat and place in sterilized jars. This
  chutney can accompany cold meats, grilled meats and, of course,
  curries. It will keep for 3 weeks in the refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Stew
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Soup/stew, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Flour
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Cumin
      1 lb Stew beef, cut into 1 inch
           Cubes
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 md Onion, chopped in large
           Chunks
      1 ts Dried thyme leaves
      3 c  Beef broth
      1 ts Hot sauce
      2 md Potatoes, cubed
      3    Stalks Celery, sliced
      3    Carrots, sliced
 
  Combine flour, black pepper, cayenne pepper, garlic powder, and cumin
  in a plastic bag. Add meat cubes a few at a time, shaking to coat.
  Heat oil in a large saucepan. Add meat and brown. Add onion and
  thyme. Cook until onion is tender. Add beef broth and hot sauce and
  bring to a boil. Reduce heat and add potatoes, celery, and carrots.
  Cover and simmer for 1 1/2 hours. Serves 6.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Pork
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Medium Onions, quartered
      1    Medium Red pepper, sliced
      1    Medium Green pepper, sliced
      1 c  Mushrooms
      2    Medium Potatoes, quartered
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts White pepper
      4 lb Boneless pork loin roast
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Combine vegetables and seasoning except black pepper in a mixing
  bowl. Mix well. Place roast in a large roasting pan, fat side up.
  Sprinkle with black pepper. Pour water over roast and add vegetables.
  Cook uncovered at 375 degrees for 3 hours or until a meat thermometer
  160 degrees. Increase heat to 425 degrees, cook 15 minutes or until
  meat is no longer pink. Serves 6.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak Cajun-Style
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine, melted
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      4    Ribeye steaks
 
  Heat a skillet to 350 degrees and pour melted margarine in. Combine
  seasoning in a small bowl. Dip steaks in melted margarine and
  sprinkle with season mixture. Place steaks in skillet and cook each
  side for about 3 1/2 minutes. Serves 4.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Creole #2
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Margarine
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Red pepper, chopped
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 cn Tomatoes (16 oz.)
      1 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      3 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Cold water
    1/2 lb Fresh shrimp OR
    1/2 lb Frozen shrimp, thawed
    1/2 lb Fresh crab OR
    1/2 lb Frozen crab, thawed
      2 c  Peppery rice
 
  Melt margarine in a medium skillet. Add onion, red pepper and garlic.
  Cook Salt and white pepper. Cover, reduce heat, simmer for 10
  minutes. Combine cornstarch and water in a small bowl. Mix well. Add
  to tomato mixture. Stir until bubbly. Add shrimp and crab and heat to
  boiling. Reduce heat and simmer for 10 minutes or until seafood is
  thoroughly cooked. Serve on top of rice. Serves 4.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppery Rice
 Categories: Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Brown rice
      4 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Green onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Red peppers, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts White pepper
 
  Place rice and chicken broth in a 3 quart saucepan. Bring to a boil.
  Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 20 minutes. Add remaining
  ingredients and simmer another 20 minutes. Serves 6.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Banquet
 Categories: Chinese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Dial 555-6780
      2    Give order
      3    No MSG, please!
      4    Ask for extra Fortune
           Cookies
      5    Give name and address
      6    Get purse out
 
  Note:  The noodle dishes are terrible; no deliveries after 10 p.m.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Cherry soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Sifted flour
      1 ts Butttermilk
      1 ts Vanilla
     10 oz Jar Maraschino cherries,
           Chopped and drained
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour a 9x5x3 inch pan.
  
  In a large bowl, combine butter, sugar and eggs; beat with mixer until
  creamy. Add soda, salt, flour, and buttermilk. Mix on low until
  blended. Fold in vanilla, cherries, and nuts.  Bake 60 minutes.
  
  From Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar,
      2 ts Baking powder,
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2    Bottle maraschino cherries
           Cut up,
      2    Eggs,
      3 tb Melted butter
      1 c  Cherry juice & milk
           Combined
  1 1/2 c  Flour,
 
  Prepare pans. Stir together dry ingredients & add the cherries. Mix
  eggs, cherry liquid & melted butter. Add the dry mix to the wet mix
  until just combined. Bake for 15-20 mins at 375oF. Makes 9-10 large
  muffins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Butter
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Butter, softened
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Garlic powder
 
  Combine in a medium bowl and beat with an electric mixer on high speed
  until light and fluffy. Use on hot biscuits, vegetables, fish,
  poultry, and steaks.
  
  Source: Quick 'n Easy Country Cookin From: Jon Judd, Cooking Echo,
  2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Devil Pepper Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 ts Bonnet-type chiles
      3 md Onions, diced
      2    Allspice berries, crushed
      1 ts Ketchup
      1 ts Pickapeppa Sauce
      2 c  Distilled vinegar
 
  Makes 2 cups. Place the chiles, onions, and crushed allspice in the
  bowl of a food processor and mince until fine. In a small nonreactive
  saucepan, add the remaining ingredients to the chile mixture and
  bring to a boil, stirring occasionally. Allow to cool and place the
  pepper sauce in a bottle. It will keep for several months in the
  refrigerator. Use sparingly to accompany stews, grilled meats, and
  whatever you feel could use a bit of the devil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jerk  Marinade
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Scallion, finely chopped
      2 ts Ground thyme
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
      1    Hot pepper, finely ground
      1 ts Black pepper
      3 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1 tb Vinegar
 
      Mix together all the ingredients.  A food processor fitted with a
      steel blade is ideal for chopping and grinding.  This will
  provide an
      excellent marinade for chicken, beef, or pork.  Store leftover
      marinade in the refrigerator in a tightly closed jar for about 1
      month.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jerk  Rub
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Onion, fine chopped
    1/2 c  Scallion, finely chopped
      2 ts Ground thyme
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Allspice
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      4    Hot peppers, finely ground
      1 ts Black pepper
 
  If you've ever had jerked chicken or pork this is the rub that's used.
  
      Mix together all the ingredients to make a paste.  a food
  processor
      fitted with a steel blade is ideal for this store leftovers in the
      refrigerator in a tightly closed jar for about a month.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Cajun Shrimp
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Catsup
      1 tb Honey
      1 tb Brown sugar
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 ts Hot sauce
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Onion powder
      1 lb Shrimp, peeled and deveined
 
  Combine all ingredients except shrimp in a sauce pan. Heat
  thoroughly. Cook shrimp in boiling water for 5 minutes or until
  shrimp turns pink. Brush sauce over shrimp. Serve over rice with
  leftover sauce. Serves 4.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dry Jerk Seasoning
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Onion flakes
      1 tb Onion powder
      2 ts Ground thyme
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Ground allspice
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Coarsely ground black
           Pepper
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      2 ts Dried chives or green
           Onions
 
  This seasoning mix is excellent to have on hand to sprinkle on cooked
  or uncooked fish, vegetables, or snacks. To increase the heat, add
  more cayenne. Mix together all the ingredients. Store leftovers in a
  tightly closed glass jar. It will keep its pungency for over a month.
  Yield: 5 Tablespoons.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Walnut Muffins
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3    Bananas
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Margarine, melted
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
      3 tb Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Walnuts, chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Spray 12-muffin tin with no-stick cooking
  spray. Mash bananas in a medium mixing bowl. Add sugar, brown sugar
  and eggs. Mix well. Add butter. Stir in flour, whole wheat flour and
  soda. Add buttermilk and walnuts. Mix until just moistened. Spoon
  into muffin tin. Bake until muffins are brown and done, about 20
  minutes. Yield: 12 muffins.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackberry Cobbler #2
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 c  Blackberries, fresh
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Butter, melted
           Pastry
           Cream & sugar

MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Shortening
      6 tb Whipping cream
      6 tb Buttermilk; or sour milk
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sam Waring Originally from: Southern
  Living magazine SOUTHERN BLACKBERRY COBBLER Place berries in a
  lightly greased 2-quart baking dish. Combine sugar and flour; add
  water and lemon juice, mixing well. Pour syrup over berries; bake at
  350 about 15 minutes while preparing the pastry.
  
  Place pastry over hot berries; brush with melted butter. Bake at 425
  for 20 to 30 minutes, or until pastry is golden brown.
  
  Pastry: Combine flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Cut in
  shortening until mixture resembles coarse crumbs; stir in whipping
  cream and buttermilk. Knead dough 4 or 5 times; roll to about 1/4"
  thickness on a lightly floured surface. Cut dough to fit baking dish.
  
  Serve cobbler warm with cream and sugar.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Pita, Greek Style #2
 Categories: Greek, Beef
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Ground Beef
      1 md Onion, Chopped
      4 cl Garlic, Minced
    1/2 lb Fresh Mushrooms, Sliced
      1    Bay Leaf
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Chili Powder
    1/2 ts Cumin Powder
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      8 oz (1 cn) Tomato Sauce
    1/3 c  Burgundy Or Rose Wine
      1    Egg
      8 oz (1 pk) Cream Cheese,
           Softened
      1 c  Creamed Cottage Cheese
    1/2 c  Crumbled Feta Cheese
    1/2 c  Unsalted Butter, Melted *
      8 oz (1/2 Pk) Phyllo Leaves **
    1/4 c  Dry Bread Crumbs

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Parlsey Sprigs
     12    Cherry Tomatos
           Fresh Fruit Kabobs (opt.)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Jean Hores Beef Pita, Greek Style
  
  *  Unsalted margarine, melted, can also be used. ** Phyllo Leaves are
  Greek pastry and they should be defrosted.
  
  Combine ground beef, onion and garlic in a large frying-pan; cook,
  stirring frequently until beef loses pink color. Pour off drippings.
  Add mushrooms, bay leaf, salt, chili powder, cumin powder, and
  cinnamon; cook, stirring frequently, until mushrooms are tender about
  5 minutes. Stir in tomato sauce and wine; cook, covered, 10 minutes,
  stirring occasionally.
  
  Remove bay leaf. Cool while preparing cheese filling. Combine egg and
  cream cheese in medium bowl, beat with electric mixer until smooth.
  Stir in cottage and feta cheeses and blend. Brush 13 x 9-inch baking
  pan with melted butter. Line pan with 1 sheet of pastry, fitting
  pastry to contour of pan. (Pastry will come up over edges of pan.)
  Brush pastry with butter. Layer with 3 more pastry sheets, brushing
  each with butter.
  
  Sprinkle bread crumbs evenly over top. Spoon 1/5 of meat filling in
  layer over crumbs and 1/5 of the cheese filling over meat. Place 1
  pastry sheet over cheese filling, crinkling to fit inside dimensions
  of pan; brush with butter and layer with 1/5 of the meat and 1/5 to
  the cheese fillings. Repeat with 3 more pastry sheets, crinkling
  each, brushing with butter and topping with fillings. Turn bottom
  pastry ends up over filling. Place remaining 8 pastry sheets smoothly
  over top, brushing each with butter.
  
  Using spatula, tuck top pastry sheets around inside edges of pan. With
  sharp knife, score top lightly in half lengthwise and sixths
  crosswise. (Do not cut through.) Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees
  F.) 1 hour or until top is golden brown. Cool at least 10 minutes
  before cutting along scored lines. Place a cherry tomato on each of
  12 small wooden picks and insert pick in center of each serving.
  Garnish with parsley. Garnish individual servings with fresh fruit
  kabobs, if desired. FRESH FRUIT KABOBS: To make fresh fruit kabobs,
  place chunks of fresh pineapple, cantaloupe, whole strawberries or
  other fruits in season on small wooden skewers.
  
  Servings: 12
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Turkey Burgers
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry, Turkey, Sandwich
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground turkey
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Cumin
      1 ts Blackpepper
 
  Preheat oven to broil. Spray a broiler pan with no-stick cooking
  spray. Combine all ingredients in a mixing bowl and mix well. Shape
  into 4 patties. Place on broiler pan and broil for 5 minutes on each
  side. Serve on hamburger buns. Serves 4.
  
  Source: More Cajun Cooking, Modern Publishing, New York, NY Copyright
  1990 SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creme Bath Oil Soak
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Whole eggs
    1/4 c  + 1 ts witch hazel
    1/4 c  + 1 ts corn oil
      1 ts Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Yogurt
      2 tb Melted butter
  1 3/4 c  Whole milk
      1 c  Peach or apricot juice
 
  Melt butter and mix with corn oil.  Let stand one hour.  Mix eggs and
  stir gently.  Add all ingredients one at a time to blender - adding 1
  c of milk last.  Beat at low speed.  Turn off blender and add last
  3/4 c milk unbeaten. Stir and enjoy. Keep refrigerated for freshness.
  Shake and add 1/2 c to your tub. Makes 3 cups - enough for 6 baths.
  
  Terri St.Louis-Woltmon
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bubba's Fajitas
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef skirt steak
      1 cl Garlic, chopped
      1 ts Cumin
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/3 c  Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      1 ts Liquid Smoke
      1 md Yellow onion, sliced in
           Rings
           Juice from 1 large lime
           Pepper to taste.
           Green and yellow peppers
           Guacamole
           Refried beans
           Mexican rice
           Warm flour tortillas
 
  Those self-appointed guardians of Texas cuisine, Bubba & Billy Joe,
  stopped by the other day and saw a request for fajitas so Bubba asked
  me to post his version.  Serves 4 regular people or two hungry Texans.
  
   Trim fat from steak. Pound lightly to tenderize. Place meat in
  non-metallic container. Top with onion rings. Combine remaining
  ingredients. Pour over meat and onions. Cover and refrigerate
  overnight. (At this point he says to go out and just party, party,
  party -- just forget about these tasty fajitas 'til tomorrow.) Next
  day - or whenever you find your way back home, remove the meat and
  onions, reserving the marinade. Separate the meat and onions. Place
  meat on grill, basting often with the marinade and turning often to
  prevent charring. You gotta do this on a grill - it's not the same in
  a broiler. Meanwhile, saute the onions in butter with some green and
  maybe some yellow peppers sliced into strips. When the meat's done,
  slice it into thin strips, cutting across the grain.
   Serve with homemade refried beans, Mexican rice, guacamole, picante
  sauce or salsa, sour cream, grated cheddar, your sauteed veggies and
  of course, warm flour tortillas to hold it all together. Bubba uses
  handmade tortillas he gets from a nearby restaurant. They're much
  better than store bought. (Hint: I think this recipe is even better
  with chicken, but don't tell Bubba I said that, 'cause he thinks real
  men eat beef, and only sissies eat chicken!)
  
  Thanks again Bill, Bubba and Billy Joe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bailey's Chocolate-Chip Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    1/4 c  Sugar
      6 tb Butter, melted

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  2 1/4 lb Cream cheese, room temp.
  1 2/3 c  Sugar
      5    Eggs, room temperature
      1 c  Bailey's Irish Cream
      1 tb Vanilla extract
      1 c  Semisweet chocolate chips

MMMMM------------------------COFFEE CREAM-----------------------------
      1 c  Chilled whipping cream
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Instant coffee powder
           Chocolate curls as garnish
 
  For Crust: Preheat oven to 325~.  Coat a 9 inch springform pan with
  vegetable cooking spray. Combine crumbs and sugar in pan.  Stir in
  butter. Press mixture into bottom and 1 inch up the sides of the pan.
  Bake until light brown, usually about 7 minutes.  Maintain oven
  temperature at 325~. For Filling:  Beat cream cheese until smooth
  with and electric mixer. Gradually add sugar, then eggs one at a
  time, then Bailey's and finally the vanilla.  Sprinkle half of the
  chocolate chips over crust. Spoon in filling. Sprinkle with remaining
  chocolate chips. Bake until cake is puffed, springy in the center and
  golden brown, about 1 hour & 20 minutes. Cool cake completely in
  refrigerator. For Cream: Beat cream, sugar and coffee powder until
  peaks form. Spread mixture over cooled cake. Garnish with chocolate
  curls.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Woodruff Special
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Slices bacon
           Cabbage leaves (1/4 head)
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 c  Rice, cooked
      1 cn Sauerkraut (large can, well
           Drained)
      1 qt Spaghetti sauce
      1 lb Chopped beef
    1/2 ts Oregano
           Garlic salt to taste
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  DIRECTIONS Fry the bacon fairly crisp and reserve it. Use the bacon
  fat to grease a pan or casserole (a 10" x 12" x 2" pan is just about
  right for this recipe). Tear cabbage leaves as necessary to line the
  bottom of the pan, about 2-3 leaves thick. Break up the chopped beef
  and crumble on top of the cabbage leaves. Crumble the bacon pieces on
  top of the beef. Add the chopped onion, and then add salt, pepper,
  garlic salt and oregano. Cover this with the cooked rice and then the
  sauerkraut. Cover with another layer of cabbage leaves, about 2-3
  leaves thick. Finally, pour the spaghetti sauce on top, distributing
  it evenly.
   Bake, covered at 325 degrees for 3-4 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Sweet Chocolate Cream Cheese Brownies
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------BROWNIE LAYER----------------------------
      4 oz Germans sweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts

MMMMM--------------------CREAM CHEESE TOPPING-------------------------
      4 oz Cream cheese softened
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 tb Flour
 
  To prepare Brownie layer:  Melt chocolate and margarine over very low
  heat or melt in microwave on HIGH for 2 minutes or until margarine is
  melted then stir until chocolate is completely melted.  Stir sugar
  into chocolate, add eggs and vanilla stir until completely mixed.
  Mix in flour until well blended.  Stir in nuts.  Spread in greased
  8-inch pan
  
  To prepare cheese topping:  Mix cream cheese, sugar, egg and flour
  until smooth.  Spoon over brownie mixture, swirl with knife to
  marbelize.
  
  Bake at 350 degrees for 35 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in
  center comes out almost clean (DO NOT OVERBAKE).  Cool in pan; cut
  into squares. Makes 16 brownies.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Spiced Crab Soup
 Categories: Seafood, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/8 lb Butter
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 cl Garlic, crushed
    1/2 ts Tobasco or other pep sauce
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Bottle of *dry* white
           Drinking wine  (26.5 oz.
           Bottle)
      1 cn (14 oz) chicken broth
      2 lg Cooked Dungeness crabs
           (about 2 lbs. each),
           Cleaned and cracked
           Lemon wedges
 
  In a large kettle (at least 8 qt.) heat butter until bubbly; stir in
  onion and garlic and cook over medium heat until onion is soft.  Stir
  in hot pepper seasoning, cayenne, parsley, bay leaf, broth and wine;
  heat to simmering.  Add crab, cover, and simmer about 10 minutes or
  until crab is heated through.
  
  Eating this soup is a wonderful and messy affair.  Serve with hot
  Parmesan garlic bread, a salad and another bottle of the wine used.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grandma Rampke's Easy Rhubarb Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Rhubarb rib, cut into 1"
           Pieces
    1/2    Pie crust
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
           Cinnamon
 
   Roll out and place pie crust in bottom of pie plate.
   Place rhubarb over pie crust and sprinkle with 1/2 cup sugar.
   Beat eggs and add 1/2 cup sugar and milk.  Pour mixture over rhubarb.
  Sprinkle with cinnamon.
   Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fake Guacamole
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    16 oz bag of frozen peas,
           Thawed
      1 sm Can medium hot green chilis
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    3/4 ts Garlic powder
      1 tb Red chili powder
      4 tb Your favorite salsa (or
           Chopped
           Tomatoes)
      1 tb "Imo"
           Cumin to taste
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Any other spices you enjoy
           In guacamole
 
   Much lower in fat than real quacamole.  Try this recipe, you'll be
  surprised! Thaw the peas by placing them in a colander and running
  them under lukewarm tapwater. To test if they're thawed, pop one in
  your mouth occasionally.  Once thawed (it should only take 1-2
  minutes), drain thoroughly and pour the peas into a blender or food
  processor.
   Puree the peas in the blender or food processor.  Place pureed peas
  in a ceramic bowl and mix in the remaining ingredients. Refrigerate
  for several hours to let the flavors blend.  Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey and Rocket Salad with Macadamias
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Bunch of rocket, discarding
           The coarse stem ends
      1 sm Soft lettuce
    250 g  Macadamia nuts
      2 cl Garlic, chopped
           Salt & pepper to taste
    100 ml Macadamia oil
     50 ml White wine vinegar
      1 lb Turkey, sliced
           Chives
 
      Turkey meat, which tends to be dry, benefits particularly from
  this macadamia dressing, but any roast poultry meat you have left
  over can be used instead. Another soft lettuce can stand in for the
  rocket (arugula) if you simply can't obtain the latter, but it won't
  provide the delicate, savoury flavour. Macadamia oil can now be
  obtained in some supermarkets.
      Arrange the leaves on four plates.
  
      Heat 250 g macadamia nuts in an ungreased container in the oven
  until they smell appetizing, then set half aside and tip the other
  half into the bowl of a food processor. Add: 2 garlic cloves, roughly
  chopped. With salt and pepper process to a paste.
   With the food processor.running, slowly add 100 ml macadamia oil,
  then 50 ml white wine vinegar.
  
      Slice or shred enough turkey for four people and gently loss it
  in the macadamia salad.
  
      Arrange the dressed turkey on the prepared plates, drizzle
  left-over dressing over the salad leaves, Sprinkle with reserved
  macadamia nuts, roughly chopped, and finely chopped chives. Serve.
  
      From "Raw Materials" by Meryl Constance, Sydney Morning Herald,
  12/22/92.
  
     A few extra chillies would give this salad a lot more punch.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jerk Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Allspice
  1 1/2 ts Cayenne
  1 1/2 ts Rubbed sage
    3/4 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Garlic powder
    1/4 c  Oil
    3/4 c  White vinegar
           Juice of one lime
      1 c  Green onions, chopped
      1 tb Thyme
  1 1/2 ts Fresh-grnd black pepper
    3/4 ts Nutmeg
      2 tb Salt
      1 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
           Juice of one orange
      1    Hot pepper, seeded &
           Chopped
 
  Toss all the ingredients in the blender and blend-away.
  
  Enjoy, Terri St.Louis-Woltmon
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Clam Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Fresh mushrooms, chopped
      1 ts Veg oil
      7 oz Minced clams (canned)
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/3 c  Onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Cayenne
  1 1/3 c  Nonfat dry milk powder
  1 1/2 c  Cold water
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Fresh parsley, minced
 
     Heat oil in saucepan and saute mushrooms.  Stir in undrained clams,
  celery, onion, salt, pepper and cayenne.  Cover and let simmer for 5
  minutes.
   Mix together milk powder, water, and cornstarch (you may substitute
  1 1/2 c skim milk for the powder & water). Stir milk mixture into
  saucepan and simmer over low heat until soup thickens.  Pour into
  serving bowls and top each serving with 1/2 T parsley.  (142 calories
  per serving)
  
  Makes 4 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn & Bean Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Oil (butter)
      2 c  Sliced onions
      2 ts Minced garlic
      4 c  Corn
      4 c  Stock
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Inst milk powder
    3/4 c  Cooked beans
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Heat oil in large dutch oven.  Stir fry onions and garlic till
  browned. Add 3/4 of the corn, all stock and nutmeg.  Bring to a boil
  and simmer till corn is tender. Puree remaining corn with some of the
  stock. Add the milk powder to the puree. Blend puree into the soup
  pot with the beans and salt. Bring the soup to almost boiling, lower
  heat and simmer for a few minutes. Check seasonings and serve.
  (Optional: Add 1-2 chopped cooked potatoes to thicken)
  
  Makes 1 1/2 quarts
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: St. Louis' Ham Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Butter
      1 lg White onion, chopped
      2 cl Garlic, minced
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Dry sherry
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 lb Lean bacon
      6    Stalks celery sliced
           Diagonally
      3 c  Cubed new potatoes w/skin
  1 1/2 c  Milk, cream or yogurt
      4 tb Flour
 
  In dutch oven, saute bacon in butter until bacon in browned.  Add
  onion, celery, garlic, potatoes, 1 1/2 c water and milk.  Bring to
  boil and simmer 30 minutes uncovered.  Combine sherry, water and
  flour.  Whisk sherry mixture into chowder and simmer until thickened.
  Add salt and fresh black pepper to taste.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli-Cauliflower Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 lb Fresh chopped broccoli
    3/4 lb Fresh chopped cauliflower
    1/3 c  Chopped onion
  1 1/2 c  Bouillon
    1/4 ts Ground mace
      3 c  Skim milk
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
 
     Cook broccoli, cauliflower, and onion in the bouillon until
  tender. Pour half the vegetables, along with half the bouillon, into
  a blender and blend until smooth.  Remove, and blend the remaining
  vegetable mixture, along with the mace.  Return all of blended
  mixture to pan.
  
     Blend 1/2 c of milk (1/6 total) with cornstarch and add to
  vegetables. Add remaining milk, salt, and pepper, and cook until
  thick and hot, stirring occasionally. Blend in cheese and stir until
  melted. (71 calories per serv)
  
  Makes 8 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Revenge Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Turkey carcass, wings & all
           The scraps left after
           Carving*
           Any left over gravy
           Any left over vegetables
      2 lg Carrots, sliced
      2    Stalks celery (& tops),
           Chopped
      1 cn (12 oz) no salt green
           Beans, drained
      2 qt Boiling water
           Any peels, root ends and
           Leafy tops left over from -
           Onions, celery, potatoes,
           Carrots
           Several bruised garlic
           Cloves
     12 oz Wide egg noodles
      1 cn (12 oz) no salt corn,
           Drained
      1 lg White onion, chopped
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
    Cut wings off carcass and cut up the remaining bird as you would a
  chicken for frying.  Place the carcass pieces and any left over
  peelings & parings into a stock pot and fill with water.  Add garlic
  cloves.  Fill the stock pot with water and bring to a boil.  Reduce
  heat to a simmer and let it cook until the liquid is reduced by 1/3.
  Remove from heat to cool cover and refrigerate overnight.  The next
  day remove the congealed fat from the top of the broth.  Drain the
  contents through a collander into another large pot.  Return the
  broth to the stock pot.  Go through the collander and remove
  vegetable & garlic pieces and discard.  Next, go through the turkey
  remnants and pull out all the meat and add to the stock pot. Add any
  left over vegetables, carrots, celery, corn, green beans and the
  onion to the pot.  There should be *just* enough liquid to cover the
  contents. Place over heat and bring to a boil.  While you're waiting,
  cook the egg noodles per package directions and drain.  Simmer the
  soup just long enough to cook the carrots.  Add 2 quarts of water,
  egg noodles and left over gravy. Adjust seasonings (salt & pepper).
  Stir well, let simmer long enough to heat noodles and serve.
  
  Makes a bunch!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Liquamen
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (2oz) anchovies packed in
           Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Oregano
      1 oz Grape juice
    1/2 ts Salt.
 
     1) Boil the anchovies, water, oregano, and salt over high heat for
  10 minutes, until the liquid is reduced about one third.
  
     2) Strain the liquamen through a tea strainer once or twice, then
  add the grape juice.  Pour into a jar.  It will keep for weeks if
  refrigerated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mulsum
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Bottle white wine
    1/2 c  Honey
 
     1) Mix together well, seal, and refrigerate.  The flavor improves
  as the days pass.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Theada's Beef Jerky
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 qt Water
      2 c  Salt
      1 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Pepper
 
  Cut meat in " strips (or as thin as possible).  Remove all fat.  Boil
  approximately 6 minutes.  Roll moisture from meat.  Put on cookie
  sheet in middle of oven for 1 to 2 hours at 200.  Leave oven door
  cracked to let moisture out.  Coat with Liquid Smoke and A-1 Sauce.
  Store in airtight jar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Micro Zucchini
 Categories: Vegetable, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Olive oil
      1 sm Onion chopped
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 sm Unpeeled zucchini, chopped
           (about 1 cup)
      6    Eggs
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
    1/2    Grated parmesan cheese
 
      In a 9" microwavable quiche dish or round cake dish combine oil,
  onion, garlic, zucchini and pepper; stir to coat veggies with
  oil.Microwave, uncovered at high (%100) 4 to 6 minutes or until
  softened, stirring part way through. Lightly beat eggs with
  seasoning; stir in cheese.Pour egg mixture over vegies; stir until
  mixed.Microwave, uncovered at medium high (%70) 3 minutes.Stir
  mixture with fork, moving outer cooked parts toward center>Microwave
  at medium high 3-5 minutes or until frittata is set.Let stand flat on
  counter 5 minutes before serving. Makes four servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant
    1/4 lb (4 slices) bacon, chopped
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
    1/4 ts Italian seasoning
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/2 c  + 1/4 c Italian bread
           Crumbs
      3 tb Butter
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Eggplant Casserole Cut
  eggplant in half. Boil until tender, about 40 minutes. Drain. When
  cool, scrape out the pulp and remove most of the seeds.
  
  Cook bacon until brown. Drain all but 1/4 c grease. Add onion and
  garlic and cook slowly until onion is clear.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Add to skillet the eggplant, parsley,
  Italian seasoning and thyme. Cook about 5 minutes on very low heat.
  Add 1/2 c crumbs. Mix well and cook about 5 minutes more.
  
  Place in a buttered casserole. Dot with butter and sprinkle lightly
  with 1/4 c crumbs. Bake about 15 minutes, until crumbs are brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dan's Spicy Smoked Spareribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Pork
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 lb Pork spareribs, cut into
           4-rib sections

MMMMM----------------------DRY INGREDIENTS---------------------------
      1 tb Powdered ginger
      1 tb Powdered mustard
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 tb Salt
    1/2 tb Chinese five-spice powder
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Powdered sage
      1 ts Crushed red pepper

MMMMM-----------------------BASTING SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 ts Tomato juice
      1 c  Peach preserves
      2 tb Commercial barbecue sauce
      2 tb Melted butter or margarine
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      1 tb Finely minced onion
      1 tb Finely minced bell pepper
           (red or green)
           Juice of one and one-half
           Limes
           Two or three dashes of
           Tabasco sauce
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Dan Perez Dan's Spicy Smoked Spareribs To
  get started, place a handful of hickory or mesquite chips into cold
  water and set aside. Parboil rib sections in boiling water for about
  ten minutes. (This partially cooks them and renders much of the fat.)
  Remove rib sections and set on wire rack to cool. Combine dry
  ingredients in a bowl and blend well with a fork. When rib sections
  are cool, rub the dry ingredient mixture into the meat. Stack rib
  sections, seal in aluminum foil and let them sit in the refrigerator
  for about two hours.
  
  After two hours, start the coals in your smoker. Combine ingredients
  for basting sauce in a blender and blend until smooth. Transfer the
  basting sauce to a saucepan and heat over low heat until it begins to
  bubble. If you prefer for the basting sauce to be thicker, mix 2
  tablespoons of cornstarch with 1/4 cup of cold water, and mix a
  little of the cornstarch mixture into the basting sauce a bit at a
  time to until desired consistency is achieved.
  
  When the coals are uniform gray, scatter a few of the wet wood chips
  over them. Rub grill with a paper towel dipped in vegetable oil.
  Brush ribs with basting sauce and place them on the grill. Cover with
  smoker lid (leave vents about half-open). Grill the ribs for about an
  hour, turning about every fifteen minutes and basting as you turn
  them. Add wood chips to the coals as necessary to maintain smoke.
  
  Serve ribs with warm basting sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili with Beans
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Pinto beans
      2 lb Chili meat OR
      4 lb Lean beef sirloin, chopped
           In 1/2 inch cubes
      1 lb Low-fat turkey sausage
      1 c  Onions, chopped
      1 tb Garlic powder
      1 tb Red cayenne pepper
      2 cn Tomato sauce
      3 tb New Mexico (or other hot)
           Chili powder
      1 ts Dried oregano
      2 tb Ground cumin
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Louisiana (or Tobasco) Hot
           Sauce
      1 cn Jalapenos, chopped
    1/2 tb Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michael Gallagher Bob, here is my
  variation of a chili recipe with beans in it. If the people here
  don't like beans with their chili, I'll give a substitution. DON'T
  change anything, for this is the way you should make authentic Texas
  chili--not the cheap imitation stuff.
  
  Wash beans in colander and soak overnight. Wash again next day, and
  place in large chili pot. Cover with water about 1/2 to 3/4 inch over
  beans; simmer, covered, for about 2-1/2 hours or until done.
  
  If substituting beans with the lean beef sirloin, brown the meat 1
  pound at a time, preferably in a non-stick skillet without any oil.
  Place the meat in large chili pot. You will also need 1 more 12 ounce
  can of tomato sauce and 1 to 2 10 ounce cans of fat-skimmed beef
  stock. You will add the extra can of tomato sauce and the can of beef
  stock in the next paragraph of directions.
  
  Brown meat and place in large saucepan. Add all of the other
  ingredients and spices. Mix well. Simmer, covered, for 1 hour. When
  beans are done, add contents of saucepan to chili pot and simmer for
  30 to 45 minutes. Makes 15 to 20 servings, 225 calories each (205
  with out the oil). Salt and pepper to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppyseed Dressing
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Salad oil
    1/2 c  Sugar (I use less)
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
      1 tb Poppyseeds
      1 tb Grated onion
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Dry mustard
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Julie Purvis POPPYSEED DRESSING Blend all
  ingredients in blender or mix by hand; will keep in frig for a week. I
  serve this with raw spinach, fresh strawberries or mandarin oranges,
  and sliced mild onion, Vidalia if possible.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: King Ranch Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Fryer chicken
      1 md Onion chopped
    3/4 c  Chopped celery
      1 ts Salt
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
     12    Tortillas cut in pieces
      1    Chopped green pepper
      1 cn Ro-tel tomatoes
      1 c  Sharp cheddar cheese
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman This recipe for chicken
  casserole is a real rib sticker from the famous King Ranch in Texas.
  KING RANCH CASSEROLE Boil chicken, onion, celery & salt until chicken
  is tender. Remove chicken from broth and cool, remove bones, chop
  chicken. Boil broth down to 1-1/2 c & add soups & mix. Preheat oven
  to 350 degrees. Arrange tortillas in pieces in bottom of buttered 8 x
  12 in casserole with tortillas pieces. Cover tortilla pieces with
  chicken chunks. Sprinkle with green peppers. Cover with Ro-tel
  tomatoes. Pour soup mixture over all of it. Cover with foil & bake 35
  to 40 min. Remove from oven and remove foil. Sprinkle with cheese,
  return to oven, cook til cheese is bubbly Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rich and Famous Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  3 1/2 lb Cut up, whole chicken
      2 tb Lea & Perrin
           Worchestershire sauce
      1 ts Dried oregano
      2 ts Dried basil
  1 1/2 ts Dry mustard
      8    Pats butter
      2 tb Fresh squeezed lemon juice
      1    Bottle very good champagne
      1 pk Frozen peas
      1 lb Baby carrots
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 sm New potato, cut in half
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1    8 in. thick onion
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman RICH AND FAMOUS CHICKEN
  
  Place chicken in single layer in a pan, perferably ceramic, and
  sprinkle worchestershire over top. Sprinkle on some of the
  oregano/basil mixture, all of the mustard, salt and pepper, lemon
  juice, and 1/2 of the champagne. Marinate chicken for 1/2 hour.
  
  Cover bottom of large casserole with onion slices. Pour some of the
  marinade over the onions. Place marinated chicken on top and place a
  pat of butter on each piece. Pour remaining marinade over the
  chicken. Cover chicken with frozen peas. Sprinkle on some of the
  oregano/basil mixture. Sprinkle on some champagne. Cover peas with
  baby carrots. Sprinkle on remaining oregano/basil and a little more
  champagne. Cover carrots with the soup. Sprinkle on a little more
  champagne. Distribute potato halves, raw side down, over top so that
  potatoes sit part way down in the soup (about half in and half out).
  Sprinkle on remaining champagne.
  
  Place covered casserole on center rack in preheated oven (375
  degrees, if casserole is clear; 400 degrees, if not). Bake for 1
  hour. Remove lid and continue baking for 15 minutes. Decamp the
  vegetables from the casserole, place individual serving of chicken on
  plate and add serving of vegetables. Serve with tossed salad, french
  bread, and a dry white wine.
  
  Servings: 4 to 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Ristto
 Categories: Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Prossciutto Ham Strips
      1 c  Green Peas
      4 oz Cooked Chicken Strips
      1 c  Dry Long Grain Rice
      1 c  Mushrooms Sliced Thick
      2 c  Chicken Stock
      1 lg Onion Coarsely Chopped
      3 tb Olive Oil
      2 lg Chopped Garlic Cloves
    1/4 c  Romano Cheese
      1 sm Yellow Pepper
    1/4 c  Fresh Parsley
      1 c  Chopped Tomatoes
    1/2 ts White Pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman SUMMER RISTTO Heat 2-tbl
  olive oil in large sauce pan. Add onion and cook till transparent.
  Add garlic and rice to pan. Stir till rice is lightly browned.
  
  Stir 1-cup of chicken stock into the rice, a small amount at a time,
  till most of the stock is absorbed by the rice. Approximately 10
  minutes. Stir in chicken, ham, mushrooms and sweet peppers. Simmer
  for 5 minutes; add more stock to keep vegetables moist. Add peas,
  tomatoes and pepper.
  
  Simmer for an additional 5-minutes or till rice is tender. Serve
  Summer Risto in a large bowl. Sprinkle Romano cheese and parsley over
  the rice.
  
  Excellent, served with light antipasto or endive salad, and a medium
  red.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dunbar's Jambalaya
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      1    Onion, minced
      1 c  Clove
  1 1/2 lb Raw shrimp
      3    Pork sausages
    1/4 lb Cooked ham
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      6 cn Tomato paste
      4    Parsley springs, minced
      2 ts Hyme springs, minced
      2 ts Water
    1/3 c  Uncooked rice
           Salt and pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: Dunbar's
  in New Orleans Dunbar's Jambalaya Melt 1 tablespoon butter and brown
  onion and garlic. Peel and devein shrimps. If using large shrimp, cut
  them in halves lengthwise. Add shrimp to onion mixture and cook,
  stirring for about 5 minutes, until shrimp are bright pink. Cut
  sausages into samll pieces and brown in a separate pan. Cut ham into
  cubes the same size as the sausage and saute with the sausage for a
  few minutes. Blend in flour. Combine the meat with the shrimp and add
  tomato paste and thyme. Add hot water and bring to a boil. Add salt
  and pepper to taste. Cover and simmer for 1 hour. Cook rice according
  to package instructions until it is barely tender. Stir rice into
  meat mixture and continue cooking for 30 minutes more or til rice has
  absorbed all the liquid and the mixture is quite dry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kolachky Dough #1
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Flour
      2 c  Shortening
      3    Egg yolks
      1 cn Evaporated milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      4 c  Warm water
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: "The Best of
  Boris", by the St. Mark Women's Guild from Bethesda Maryland Kolachky
  Dough #1 Mix flour and shortening as for pie crust. Make a hole in
  center of mixture and add egg yolks, milk, yeast, and vanilla. Mix
  until smooth and dough leaves sides of bowl. Form into large balls,
  each just large enough to roll out at one time. Cover with wax paper
  and refrigerate overnight. Roll out each ball about 1/4" thick on a
  board covered with powdered sugar. Cut dough into 2" or 3" squares
  and place 1 teaspoon of any desired filling in center of dough; fold
  dough over to opposite side and pinch together or roll into horn
  shape. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake in 350 oven until
  lightly brown, about 12 to 15 minutes. Sprinkle with powdered sugar
  before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kolachky Dough #2
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Lukewarm water
      4 c  Flour
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Butter
      4 tb Vegetable shortening
    1/2 ts Sour cream
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: "The Best of
  Boris", by the St. Mark Women's Guild from Bethesda Maryland Kolachy
  Dough #2 Mix yeast in water and stir in 3 tablespoons flour. Let
  stand for one hour. Beat eggs, sugar, butter and shortening until
  creamy. Add to yeast mixture. Blend in sour cream and vanilla. Slowly
  add flour to make a soft dough, kneading by hand. Make into a large
  ball and refrigerate overnight. Take a small portion of dough (keep
  the rest refrigerated) and roll out very thin on a powdered sugar
  pastry cloth. (Do not use flour.) Cut into 2" squares. Put 1 teaspoon
  of filling in center of square and pinch two opposite corners
  together. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake in 350 oven for 10 to
  12 minutes. When cool, sprinkle with powdered sugar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kolachky Dough #3
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 lb Butter
      1    Egg
      2 ts Sugar
      1    Egg yolk
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: "Butter 'n
  Love Recipes" from the Vincentian Sisters of Charity, Bedford Ohio
  Kolacky Dough #3 Knead together and let stand overnight in
  refrigerator. Roll out thin on flour and sugar. Cut into squares.
  Fill with walnuts, lekvar (prune), poppy seed or apricot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nut Kolachky Filling
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ground walnuts
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3    Egg whites
      2 tb Melted butter
      1    Egg
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: "The Best of
  Boris" by the St. Mark Women's Guild of Bethesda, Md. Nut Kolachky
  Filling wites, sugar and melted butter to the ground walnuts and mix
  well. Makes approximately 10 dozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Kolachky Filling #1
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 106 servings
 
      8 oz Dried appricots
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: "The Best of
  Boris" by the St. Mark Women's Guild of Bethesda, Md. Apricot Kolachky
  Filling #1 Wash apricots. Combine apricots and water; cook until soft,
  about 1/2 hour, stirring constantly to keep from scorching. Stir in
  sugar and cornstarch and cook for one minute. Cool. use a teaspoonful
  of filling for each square. Makes 8 dozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Kolachky Filling #2
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Apricot preserves
    1/2 c  Coconut
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: "The Best of
  Boris" by the St. Mark Women's Guild of Bethesda, Md. Apricot Kolachky
  Filling #2 Mix the above ingredients and refrigerate until ready to
  use.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppyseed Kolachky Filling
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Milk, scalded
      1 lb Ground poppyseeds
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: "More
  Favorite Recipes" from the Catholic Universe Bulletin Poppyseed
  Filling Mix together filling ingredients. Set aside until milk is
  absorbed and mixture is cooled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Fruit Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  (1-1/2 pts) Half-and-Half
     14 cn Sweetened condensed milk
           (NOT evaporated)
      1 c  Pureed or mashed fresh fruit
           (peaches, strawberries,
           Bananas, raspberries, etc)
      1 tb Vanilla
           Food coloring, optional
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng Originally from: Borden FRESH
  FRUIT ICE CREAM In ice cream freezer container, combine all
  ingredients and mix well. Freeze according to manufacturer's
  instructions.
  
  Refrigerator Freezer Method: Omit half-and-half. In large bowl,
  combine sweetened condensed milk and vanilla; stir in pureed fruit
  and food coloring, if desired. Fold in 2 c (1 pint) whipping cream,
  whipped (do NOT use non-dairy topping). Pour into 9x5 loaf pan or
  other 2-qt. container. Cover and freeze 6 hours or until firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Long Island Iced Tea
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2    Shot Tequila
    1/2    Shot Vodka
    1/2    Shot Gin
    1/2    Shot Rum
      3    Shots Coca Cola
    1/2    To 1 shot Sour Mix (or Tom
           -Collins Mix or Whiskey Sour
           -Mix)
 
  SOURCE: Natl Cooking Echo 18 Jun 90
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin
  
  Put all in a glass and stir and watch out. Not my idea of a way to
  consume alcohol (I would prefer too much wine or champagne <grin>),
  but I believe this was the recipe. Does taste close to iced tea
  though... --Michelle M. Bass
  
  My boyfriend is a "working manager" of a bar here... i.e., he
  bartends. He said to add these to the preceding ingredients:
  
  1/2 shot 151 Rum (in addition to the regular rum) 1/2 shot Triple Sec
  or Cointreau
  
  I only tried one of these... I agree with Michelle... at least with
  wine or champagne it requires a few hours of sipping before you pass
  out, instead of a few minutes <big GRIN>.
  
  BTW- I just asked Jim if he was sure that both 151 and regular rum
  were used, and why... he said "to hurt people". Good enough reason for
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tzatzika
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Cucumber
      2 tb Onion, grated
      1 c  Clove, minced
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Yogurt, plain lowfat
           Salt
           Pepper, white
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from:
  GOURMET7.ZIP, Donna Kummer
  
  Wash cucumber and partially peel (leave about 1/3 peel for color) then
  grate. Drain cuke and onion in strainer and press. Add remaining
  ingredients and season. Chill well. Serve with Greek olives and pita
  triangles. Makes 2 cups or 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pecan Oatmeal Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Recipe Rummed Oat Crust
    1/4 c  Rolled oats
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2 tb Melted unsalted butter
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Elicia Tamburine Originally from: Bert
  Green OATMEAL PECAN PIE (Bert Green) 1. Roll out the Rummed Oat Crust
  dough on a lightly floured board, and line a 9-inch pie plate with
  it. Trim and flute the edges.
  
  2. Preheat the oven to 400F.
  
  3. Place the oats in a medium-sized skillet over medium heat. Cook,
  stirring constantly, until lightly toasted, about 5 minutes. Allow to
  cool.
  
  4. Lightly beat the eggs in a large bowl. Beat in the honey, both
  sugars, pepper, butter, cream and vanilla. Stir in the oats and the
  pecan pieces. Pour into the pie shell and bake 10 minutes. Reduce the
  heat to 325F and continue to bake until the filling is firm, about 30
  minutes longer. Serve warm.
  
  Serves 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rummed Oat Crust
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Rolled oats
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 tb Chilled solid vegetable
           Shortening
      1    Egg yolk
      2 tb Dark rum
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Elicia Tamburine Originally from: Bert
  Green RUMMED OAT CRUST 1. Combine oats, flour sugar and salt.
  
  2. Cut chilled shortening into dry ingredients.
  
  3. Mix in the egg yolk with a fork, and add enough rum to form a soft
  dough. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate 1 hour before using.
  
  Makes one 9 crust.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oatmeal Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Cloves
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Dark corn syrup
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Quick-cooking rolled oats
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Elicia Tamburine Originally from: Tandika
  Star OATMEAL PIE
  
  Cream together butter and sugar. Add cinnamon, cloves and salt. Stir
  in syrup. Add eggs, one at a time, stirring after each addition until
  blended. Stir in rolled oats. Pour into pie shell and bake in
  moderate oven (350~ F) about 1 hour, or until knife inserted in
  center of pie comes out clean.
  
  NOTE: During baking, the oatmeal forms a chewy, "nutty" crust on top.
  Pie is rich, delicately spiced.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chile Colorado
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Microwave
      Yield: 3 servings
 
     20    Dried red chili pods, stems
           And seeds removed
    1/4 ts Cilantro seeds
    1/4 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Dried oregano
      4 cl Garlic
    1/4 c  Onion, coarsely chopped
      1 ts Salt
      3 c  Warm water
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: Mexican
  Microwave Cookery, by Carol Medina Maze Chili Colorado Power level:
  medium high Cooking time: 20 minutes Coarsely grind the cilantro and
  cumin seeds in a spice grinder, and then put into the bowl of the
  food processor. Break the chili pods into small pieces, and coarsely
  grind in the spice grinder, and then add to food processor bowl. Add
  the garlic and onion to the food processor, and process until the
  onions are chopped.
  
  Add the remaining ingredients and process until pureed. Place the
  mixture in a 2-quart casserole dish. Cover and microwave on 70%
  (medium high) for twenty minutes, stirring after 10 minutes. (I
  assume you could make it on top of the stove, too.)
  
  Makes 3-1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tamale Dough
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chili Colorado
     10 oz Frozen whole kernel corn,
           Thawed
      1 cn Hominy, drained
    3/4 c  Vegetable shortening
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
  2 1/2 c  White cornmeal
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: Mexican
  Microwave Cookery, by Carol Medina Maze Tamales de Chili Colorado
  Dough In food processor, combine the Chili Colorado, the corn, and
  the hominy; process until pureed. (You may need to do this in batches
  unless you have a large food processor.)
  
  In a large bowl, combine the pureed chili mixture, the shortening, the
  salt, the baking powder, and the cornmeal. Mix dough until smooth.
  (The recipe says to use an electric mixer, but I found it easier to
  just use a spoon.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Tamale Filling
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sharp cheddar cheese
      2 c  Shredded swiss or white
           Cheddar cheese
    2/3 c  Chopped black olives
    2/3 c  Chopped pine nuts
      2    Onions, chopped
      8 cl Garlic
      2 tb Dried oregano
      2 ts Ground cumin
      1 cn Whole kernel corn, drained
      2 cn (4-oz each) green chilies,
           Chopped
      2 ts Olive oil
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Original recipe from "The Pink
  Adobe Cookbook", by Rosalea Murphy. Vegetarian Tamale Filling Use the
  food processor (if you can) to grate the cheese. Also, I chopped the
  onions and the garlic in the food processor.
  
  Combine all ingredients in a large bowl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rantott Csirke
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margerine
    1/4 c  Flour, all purpose
      1    Chicken fryer,cut up
           (2-1/2#)
      2    Eggs
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Onion salt
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Bread crumbs, dried pkgd.
 
  Rantott Csirke (Oven Fried Paprika Chicken) Melt butter in 350 F.
  oven in 13"x9"x2" baking pan.
  
  Meanwhile, put flour in paper bag and shake chicken pieces one at a
  time until coated. Set aside. In a bowl, beat eggs with fork; combine
  in salt, paprika, onion salt and lemon juice until well blended. Dip
  the flour coated chicken pieces in egg mixture, then in crumbs,
  turning to coat evenly. Then set into melted butter in baking dish;
  arrange chicken skin side down.
  
  Bake about 45 minutes or until fork tender, turning once.
  
  Servings: 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tamale Instructions
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      2 pk Dried cornhusks
           Warm water
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Prepare the corn husks: First
  go through the corn husks, separating them, and removing pieces of
  cornsilk (and also dirt, etc.) that you find. Then place them in a
  large bowl and cover with tap water. (I put several plates on top of
  the corn husks to hold them down, because they have a tendency to
  float.) Let them soak for at least half an hour. Rinse the corn husks
  several times, to clean them. Then drain them well. Next, dry off the
  corn husks. While you do this, you can separate them into piles: big
  husks, medium, and too little to be worth using. At this time, you
  can also prepare some thin strips of corn husk, that you will use to
  tie the tamales together. (This is where you you the little pieces
  too small to make a tamale.) (I found that the pieces weren't long
  enogh to tie around the tamales, so I tied two shorter pieces of thin
  husk together. More on this later.) Make the tamales: Hold a large
  corn husk in your hand, with the narrow end pointing to the right.
  Take a spoonful of dough (I used a serving spoon, about 2 Tbs or so)
  and spread it on the corn husk, about 1-1/2 inches from the wide end,
  and about 4 inches from the narrow end. Spread the dough right up to
  the edge of the corn husk on one side, leaving enough of a flap to
  wrap around the tamale. (If the husk isn't wide enough for you to be
  able to wrap it around, you'll use another husk - more on this
  later.) Next, spread a spoonful (again, about 2 Tbs) of filling down
  the middle of the dough. Roll the sides of the corn husk in toward
  the center, bringing the edges of the dough together, enclosing the
  filling. Wrap the rest of the corn husk around to the back. If there
  is not enough husk to wrap around to the back, place another corn
  husk around the tamale, to hold the edge closed. Now, wrap the top
  (broad end) edge down, and flip the bottom part (the narrow end) up,
  so that it covers the edge of the broad end. Then, using the thin
  strips of corn husk, tie across the middle to hold the top and bottom
  flaps in place. Steaming the tamales: Stand the tamales on end in a
  steamer. If you don't have a steamer, you could put the tamales in a
  metal collander, and place the collander in a large pot. Just be sure
  that the tamales do not touch the water below. Bring the water to a
  brisk boil, and steam the tamales for at least an hour. I did it for
  an hour and 15 minutes. You can test one to see if they are done: the
  dough will easily separate from the husk. Just be careful - don't
  burn yourself on the steam! You can reheat tamales in the oven at 350
  degrees for about 15 minutes. (Don't try to re-steam them.) If you
  freeze them, you can reheat them by putting the frozen tamales in a
  casserole dish, covering with foil, and heating in a 350 oven for
  30-35 minutes. This was a lot of work, but it was well worth it!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oysters Bienville
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 oz Oysters, (boiled until
           Edges curl), drained
      3 oz Clean oyster shells
    1/2    Bienville sauce, cold
      1 c  Bread crumbs
      1 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      8 tb Melted butter
           Rock salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bill Birner Originally from: Austin Leslie
  Here's a popular Creole recipe, not, of course, Cajun, from New
  Orleans. If you can get the ingredients, it is a true winner. This is
  by Austin Leslie, probably the top Creole-Soul chefs in New Orleans.
  This is a "Crescent City Classic." Those of you in Dry Dock will have
  to suffer without, or better yet, Come On Way Down Yonder. OYSTERS
  BIENVILLE (N.O. pronunciation = Bee-En-Vill, not quite true French)
  Preheat 6 pie pans filled with rock salt. Preheat broiler to highest
  flame or oven to 475 degrees. Place boiled oysters in shells and
  cover each with 2 tbs. cold Bienville sauce.
  
  Sprinkle with bread crumbs and cheese and place on cookie sheets.
  Sprinkle melted butter over oysters to moisten amd place under
  broiler or in oven until lightly browned and bubbly. Place six
  oysters on each pre-heated pie pan and rock salt. Serve 6,
  immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bienville Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 oz Flour
      6 tb Butter
    1/2    Fish stock
    1/2 ts Rout fillets (skinned)*
    1/2 lb Very small shrimp
    1/2 lb Lump crabmeat
      6    Egg Yolks, whipped
      1 c  Chablis
      1 tb Egg shade or yellow
           Coloring
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Salt & Pepper to taste
           Wire whip
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bill Birner Originally from: Austin Leslie
  BIENVILLE SAUCE
  
  Heat butter in heavy pot. Add flour and cook slowly for 3 minutes.
  (Do not brown roux.) Add fish stock and whip vigorously for 1 minute,
  then simmer for 1/2 hour. Stir occasionally. Next, add trout, shrimp
  and egg yolks, mix with cream and beat vigorously for 4 minutes. Add
  Chablis and beat 1 more minute. Refrigerate at least 1/2 hour.
  
  * [New Orleans "speckled trout" are brackish salt water fish, a
  member of the weakfish family, a sweet semi-firm fleshed fish.]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Fricasse with Capers & Dill
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Veal
           Salt
           Water to cover
      2 c  White wine
      1    Peeled onion, cut in half
      3    Bay leaves
      5    Cloves
           Butter and Flour for white
           Roux
      3 ts Capers
      1 ts Dill, chopped
           White pepper
           Nutmeg (pinch)
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2    Egg Yolks
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bill Birner Originally from: Gunter Preuss
  Here's a recipe from another New Orleans Chaine de Rotisseur award
  winner, Gunter Preuss. This is by Gunter Preuss of Versailles
  Restaurant in New Orleans, a favored and elegant 5 star place. Some
  amounts he omitted which need to be guessed at, to taste. VEAL
  FRICASSE w. CAPERS & DILL
  
  1. Cut veal in 1 inch strips, (not too lean - not too fat.)
  
  2. Evenly cover with water and bring to slow boil. Rinse clean.
  
  3. Cover veal with water, season with salt, white wine, onion, bay
  leaves, cloves, simmer until cooked.
  
  4. Make a white roux and use strained stock for sauce. Cook until
  flour taste is gone.
  
  5. Add capers, dill, pepper and nutmeg. Adjust seasoning to taste.
  
  6. Add cooked veal to sauce and simmer 10 more minutes.
  
  7. Before serving, mix cream and egg yolks and pour very slowly into
  Fricasse.
  
  Serve with rice or noodles.
  
  Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Long Island Ice Tea
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Equal parts:
           Mr. Boston Rum
           Mr. Boston Gin
           Mr. Boston Vodka
           Mr. Boston Triple Sec
           Lemon Juice
           Orange Juice
 
  Mix in a highball glass over ice and add a dash of cola. I guess you
  can try it with any kind of rum, gin, vodka and triple sec. Well,
  good luck with the recipe and DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE !!
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Anita Rasmussen Originally from: Mr.
  Boston's Official Bartender's Guide"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Empanadas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef, Appetizer
      Yield: 15 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
      3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 tb Margarine
      6 tb Vegetable shortening
      2 tb Cold water

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1    Onion, chopped
      4 cl Garlic, finely chopped
      1    Green pepper, seeded and
           Chopped
  1 1/2 ts Olive oil
      8 oz Ground beef
      1 ts Cocoa powder
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Dried oregano, crushed
           Salt and pepper
      2    Chili peppers, seeded and
           Chopped
      4 tb Canned crushed tomatoes
      2 tb Slivered almonds
      2 tb Raisins
      2 tb Chopped green olives
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Water
      2 ts Milk
           Salt
      1    Oil
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Originally from: Step by Step
  Mexican Cooking A modified version; original from Step by Step Mexican
  Cooking Empanadas con Picadillo
  
  Sift the flour with a pinch of salt into a mixing bowl, or place in a
  food processor and mix once or twice. Rub in the margerine and
  shortening until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs, or work in
  the food processor, being careful not to over-mix. Mix the liquid
  gradually, adding enough to bring the pastry together into a ball.
  (In a food processor, add the liquid through the funnel while the
  motor is running.) Wrap the pastry well, and chill for 20 to 30
  minutes.
  
  Brown the ground meat well, and drain away as much of the fat as
  possible.
  
  until the onion is soft. Add to the meat. Then add the cocoa, flour,
  spices, oregano, and seasonings. Stir well and cook briefly before
  adding the chilies and the tomatoes. Cook slowly for 10-15 minutes.
  
  Add the nuts and the olives, and allow to cool. (Oh, you were
  supposed to add the parsley with the tomatoes, above.)
  
  Roll out the pastry on a floured surface. (We didn't do this. We ran
  the dough through the pasta machine - much easier! We found the #3
  setting on our Atlas pasta maker to be the right thickness.)
  
  Cut the dough into 4 inch rounds. (I used a leftover container from
  ricotta cheese to get the right size.)
  
  Place about 1-1/2 tablespoons of filling on the dough circle. Fold
  over, and press to seal. If the dough is a little dry, moisten the
  edges with a little warm water (with your finger) before pressing the
  edges together. Crimp the edges with a fork. With a toothpick, prick
  several holes on the top of the empanada to allow the steam to escape.
  
  Mix the glaze ingredients together. Place empanadas on a baking
  sheet, and brush with the egg glaze.
  
  Bake at 425 for 15-20 minutes, or until golden brown.
  
  If you like, you can freeze these. To bake frozen empanadas, place the
  frozen pastries on a cooking sheet and brush with the egg glaze. Bake
  for 30-35 minutes at 425 degrees.
  
  Makes 15 empanadas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Medium White Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      2 c  Bread flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Dry milk (I use buttermilk)
      1 tb Butter ( slivered)
      1 pk Yeast
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Merrilyn Vaughan Originally from: Hitachi
  Breadmaker book Here is a MEDIUM white bread: Place all ingredients in
  bucket and press 'start'. Process 4 hours and 10 minutes. Remove from
  bucket. Brush with butter for softer crust. Cool. Store....or EAT!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Low-Fat Sour Cream Substitute
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 oz Container lowfat cottage
           Cheese
      2 tb Buttermilk
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Randall Chrisman This is something that a
  friend of mine learned in her efforts to cut down on the amount of
  fat in her diet. Seems she and her husband were quite fond of sour
  cream (being the kind of people that would toss it onto the potato
  and not stop until you couldn't see the potato!) This is a really
  great substitute for the topping...such to the point that I'm not
  fond of sour cream anymore. Optional:
  
  Schilling Cheese Sauce Mix Hidden Valley Reduced Calorie Ranch
  
  Mix the Hidden Valley Blue Cheese Dressing MIX. Dump the cottage
  cheese, buttermilk and lemon juice into a food processor with metal
  blade. Process until smooth (and I mean SMOOTH...can turn grainy
  unless you give it time...when you think it's done, process it some
  more.) When it's done, you have the option of blending in any of the
  powdered dressing mixes (we use 3/4 package for flavor - more than
  that and you've reduced your fat intake and TRIPLED your sodium
  intake.) You need to pour the contents back into the cottage cheese
  container and let it set for an hour or so.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Hot Dogs and Rice
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes.
    1/2 lb Hot dogs sliced 1/2"
           Thick
    3/4 c  Green pepper, diced
    3/4 c  Onion, diced
           Rice for 4 people
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marge Clark The recipe has no real
  measurments...is a "what you have"... Spanish hot dogs & rice: Enough
  rice for four people... put rice on to cook...while it's cooking
  slice as many hot dogs as you have (lets say 1/2 pound or more) into
  pennies, about 1/2 inch thick. dice 1 green pepper...I used to use
  the frozen diced pepper and use a couple of handsful..maybe 3/4 cup?
  Diced onion. ditto on the amount. combine all the above, heat, while
  the rice is cooking...set the table and spray on some perfume.
  
  This is obviously not a gourmet feast for company. But everyone ATE
  it! and there is little that's faster or easier!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: South of the Border Bundles
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    10-INCH flour tortillas
      4 oz Cheddar or American Cheese
      1 cn Refried beans
    1/2 c  Sliced green onions
      1 cn Diced green chile peppers
      1 ts Chili powder
      1    Tomato, seeded and chopped
           Sliced green onion
           Taco sauce (optional)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox SOUTH OF THE BORDER BUNDLES
  
  Wrap tortillas tightly in foil. Heat in a 350 degree oven for 10
  minutes. Cut the cheese into 6 sticks. In a bowl, stir together the
  refried beans, 1/2 cup onion, chili peppers, and chili powder. Remove
  one tortilla from foil; recover remaining tortillas. Spread the
  tortillas with about 1/3 cup of the bean mixture to within 2 inches
  of the edge. Top with 1 tablespoon chopped tomato. Place one cheese
  stick in center of tortilla. Fold in two sides; roll up jelly-roll
  style. Place on a greased baking sheet. Repeat with remaining
  tortillas. Bake in a 350 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes or till
  heated through. Serve bundles warm. Spoon taco sauce atop each bundle
  and sprinkle with additional sliced green onion, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Steaks
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ts Olive oil
      2 ts Margarine, melted
      2 ts Soy sauce
           Tuna steaks
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Use tuna, swordfish, or halibut
  steaks, cut 1/2 inch thick Place fish in a well-greased wire grill
  basket. Combine oil, melted butter, and soy sauce; brush some of the
  mixture over fish. Grill fish steaks over medium-hot coals 4 minutes.
  Turn the wire basket; baste fish again with the remaining soy
  mixture. Grill 3 to 5 minutes more or till fish just flakes with a
  fork.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppy Beef Enchiladas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Lean ground beef
    3/4 c  Picante sauce
    1/2 ts Cumin OR
      1 ts Chili powder
      8    6-inch flour tortillas
    1/2 c  Picante sauce
    1/2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Peppy Beef Enchiladas In a
  skillet cook ground beef till browned. Drain well. Return to skillet.
  Stir in 3/4 cup picante sauce and cumin or chili powder. Cook 1 or 2
  minutes more. If necessary, warm tortillas in a 350 degree oven for 5
  minutes to soften.
  
  Spoon beef mixture near one edge of each tortilla and roll up
  jelly-roll style. Spray 13x9x2 pan with nonstick cooking spray and
  place tortillas in it, tucking ends in, if necessary. Spoon the 1/2
  cup picante sauce over tortillas evenly and top with cheese. Bake in
  350 degree oven 15 minutes or till cheese is melted and tortillas
  are heated through.
  
  Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Roast Pork with Sticky Rice*
 Categories: Thai, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      3 c  Uncooked sticky rice
      6 c  Very warm (almost hot) water
      4 tb Oil
  1 1/2 lb Pork roast
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      5 tb Sugar
      1 tb Thai dark sweet soy sauce
  2 1/2 tb Light soy sauce
      3 tb Whiskey (optional)
    1/4 c  Chopped cilantro leaves
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions
      3 md Cucumbers; sliced
      2 lg Tomatoes; sliced
           Sliced fresh chilies
           - to taste
 
  *MOO YANG KAO NEOW ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Wash and pat dry the pork.
  Slice into large pieces--about 1" thick. Poke both sides of each
  piece with a fork or skewer and place in a flat bottom container with
  lid. Blend oyster sauce, sugar, the two soys and whiskey well. Pour
  over the pork and mix. Cover and marinate in the refrigerator at
  least 1 hour. Overnight for best result. Soak sticky rice in water
  for 30 mins and drain well. Pour rice in a wet-paper towel lined
  steamer and steam over high heat for 40-45 minutes. Place cooked rice
  in a container and mix with the oil to coat well. Cover and set
  aside. Charcoal grill the pork over medium heat until well done.
  Drizzle some of the marinating liquid on each side halfway through
  the cooking time. In a small sauce pan, bring the rest of marinating
  liquid to a boil and pour into a gravy bowl. Slice pork into 1" X 1
  1/2" pieces and about 1/4" thick. Spread the rice onto a platter.
  Cover with the pork pieces and pour the marinating liquid over the
  pork. Sprinkle cilantro, green onions and chilies. Garnish with
  sliced cucumbers and tomatoes.
  
  Shared by Gail Shimizu (BWHT68A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barb's Special Sweet Breads Part I
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------BARB DAY-------------------------------
      3 pk Yeast
      1 c  -Water; lukewarm
      1    Egg; slightly beaten
      4 c  Flour; sifted
      3 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Butter
      1 ts Salt

MMMMM-------------------SEE OTHER RECIPE PARTS------------------------

MMMMM----------------FOR VARIATIONS AND FILLINGS---------------------
           - Vanilla cream
           - Almond butter
           - Plumped currants or
           -  raisins
           - Egg wash
           - Icing
 
   For the dough:
    Put the water in a mixing bowl and sprinkle the yeast over it. Stir
  until the yeast has dissolved. Beat the egg into the yeast mixture,
  and set aside.
    Sift together the flour, sugar, and salt.  Add the yeast mixture.
  Knead until the mix forms a ball- if too moist add a bit more flour.
  Knead 10 minutes more.
    Roll out to an 11" square. Spread 1/2 cup butter over the surface
  of the dough.  Fold the dough into thirds and wrap in a damp cloth.
  Refrigerate 20 minutes. Repeat this process beginning from rolling
  out the dough, two more times.
    While the dough is in the refrigerator the last time, you should
  prepare the fillings, icings or other recipes you will need for the
  finished pastries.
    The following parts will give you the variety of pastries made with
  this dough, and the methods.  They will be followed by additional
  recipes needed to prepare the pastries.
  
    Source: Vera Stevens (my mother)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barb's Special Sweet Breads Part 2
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------BARB DAY-------------------------------

MMMMM----------------INSTRUCTIONS FOR WEINERBROD---------------------
 
  Place the dough on a lightly floured board and cut it in half.  Roll
  each piece into 24" X 6" strip.  Spread the surface with Almond
  butter.  Fold the edges lengthwise toward the center, allowing 1"
  space in the center. Sprinkle the plumped currants and spoon the
  Vanilla Cream into the 1" space between the edges. Repeat with second
  strip. Place both lengths of dough on a baking sheet and shape strips
  together like a giant pretzel, tucking in the ends.  Brush with the
  egg wash and sprinkle with almonds. Allow the dough to rise 1 hour in
  a cool room. When light, bake 35 minutes in a 375 degree F. oven.
  (or, if making small pastries, 10-12 minutes) Cool and ice. Cut in 3"
  pieces. This makes 1 large pastry or 24 small ones. See later parts
  for necessary fillings and icings.
  
    Source: Vera Stevens, (my mother)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barb's Special Sweet Breads Part 3
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------BARB DAY-------------------------------

MMMMM-----------------INSTRUCTIONS FOR SPANDAUER----------------------
           Your favorite jelly
 
    Place the dough on a floured board and cut it in half.  Roll each
  half 1/4" thick Cut into 4" squares.  Spread Almond butter on each
  square. Sprinkle plumped currants or raisins on top.  Fold corners to
  center.  Put a bit of your favorite jelly in the center.  Spoon
  Vanilla Cream in center. Place 2" apart on baking sheet.  Brush with
  egg wash.  Let rise till puffy. Brush again with the egg wash.  Bake
  at 375 degrees F. for 10-12 minutes.
  
    Source: Vera Stevens, my mother
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barb's Special Sweet Breads Part 5
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------BARB DAY-------------------------------

MMMMM------------------INSTRUCTIONS FOR SNAILS-----------------------
 
    Place dough on a lightly floured board and roll into a large
  rectangle 1/4" thick.  Spread with almond butter and plumped currants
  or raisins. Roll jelly roll style.  Cut into 1" slices and place
  slices 2" apart on baking sheet, cut side down. Spoon Vanilla cream
  in the center of each. Let rise until light.  Bake 10-12 minutes at
  375 degrees F. Ice and sprinkle with almonds.
  
    Source:  Vera Stevens, my mother
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barb's Special Sweet Breads Part 7
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------BARB DAY-------------------------------
           - Additional recipes for
           - preparing breads in this
           - series

MMMMM-----------------ALMOND BUTTER INGREDIENTS----------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Blanched almonds; minced
           -

MMMMM---------------------ICING INGREDIENTS--------------------------
      1 c  Confectioners' sugar
      2 tb Water
           - Garnish icing with:
           Candied cherries
           Slivered almonds
           -

MMMMM-----------------VANILLA CREAM INGREDIENTS----------------------
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Flour
      2    Egg yolks
      1 c  Milk
      2 ts Vanilla
           -

MMMMM----------------------PLUMPED RAISINS---------------------------
      2 tb Rum or Cognac
    1/2 c  Currants or raisins
           -

MMMMM--------------------------EGG WASH-------------------------------
      1    Egg
      2 tb Water
 
    ALMOND BUTTER:  Cream together the sugar and butter, then blend in
  the almonds, making sure to mix well.
  
    ICING: Beat the sugar and water together until completely blended.
  Drizzle over the pastry and garnish with cherries and almonds if
  desired.
  
    VANILLA CREAM:  Combile all the ingredients except the vanilla in a
  saucepan.  Blend and cook for 3 minutes, stirring constantly.  Remove
  from heat and stir in the vanilla.  Whip mixture occasionally to keep
  it from forming a film, if not using immediately.
  
    PLUMP CURRANTS:  Sprinkle the rum or cognac over the currants (or
  raisins) and set aside until they have been plumped.
  
    EGG WASH:  Beat together the egg and water, mixing well.  Reserve
  for use as needed.
  
    Source: Vera Stevens, my mother
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesecake Breadring
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------BARB DAY-------------------------------
      1 pk Hot roll mix
      8 pk Cream cheese; softened
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 tb Vanilla
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2    Eggs
      6 tb Butter; melted
 
  OVEN TEMP: 350
  
  SOFTEN YEAST FROM ROLL MIX IN 1/4 CUP WARM WATER. COMBINE THE MIX AND
  1/4 CUP SUGAR. STIR IN THE YEAST, EGG, SOUR CREAM AND BUTTER. MIX
  WELL. PLACE DOUGH IN GREASED BOWL, TURNING ONCE. COVER AND CHILL 2 TO
  3 HOURS.
  
  TURN DOUGH ONTO FLOURED SURFACE. ROLL THE DOUGH INTO A 18" CIRCLE.
  FIT INTO A 6 CUP MOLD RING, ALLOWING SOME DOUGH TO HANG OVER THE
  EDGES.(DOUGH WILL COVER THE CENTER HOLE.)
  
  BEAT CREAM CHEESE, SUGAR AND VANILLA TILL SMOOTH.  ADD EGGS, ONE AT A
  TIME, BEATING WELL AFTER EACH ADDITION. POUR INTO MOLD. BRING DOUGH
  FROM SIDES OVER THE TOP OF FILLING. SEAL TO CENTER OF MOLD. CUT AN X
  IN THE DOUGH COVERING THE CENTER HOME. FOLD THE FOUR TRIANGLES BACK
  OVER TOP OF RING, SEALING TO OUTER EDGES. LET RISE UNTIL ALMOST
  DOUBLE, 1 TO 1 1/2 HOURS. BAKE 35 TO 40 MINUTES OR UNTIL WOODEN PICK
  INSERTED INTO FILLING COMES OUT CLEAN. COOL IN THE PAN 10 MIN. TURN
  OUT ON A RACK, SPRINKLE WITH CONFECTIONERS SUGAR AND SERVE.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Low Fat Lentil Chili
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------
      8 oz PORK; lean, boneless or
           - GROUND TURKEY
      1 c  - WATER
      2 ts CHILI POWDER
     16 oz TOMATOES; CUT UP
      1 ts SUGAR
      3    CELERY; STALKS, SLICED
    1/4 ts GARLIC POWDER
      1 md ONION; CHOPPED
    1/4 ts CUMIN; GROUND
      1 c  LENTILS
    3/4 c  SPICY TOMATO JUICE
 
      TRIM ANY FAT FROM MEAT.CUT MEAT IN 1/2" CUBES.HEAT A NON STICK
  SAUCEPAN OR PAN SPRAYED WITH COOKING OIL OVER MEDIUM HIGH HEAT.BROWN
  MEAT QUICKLY A STIR IN UNDRAINED TOMATOES,CELERY,ONIONS
  LENTILS,WATER,TOMATOJUICE,CHILI POWDER,SUGAR,GARLIC,AND CUMIN.BRING
  MIXTURE TO A BOIL;REDUCE HEAT.COVER AN SIMMER FOR ABOUT ONE HOUR OR
  UNTIL LENTILS ARE TENDER.MAKES FOUR SERVINGS.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Corn and Black Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 11 servings
 
           -Robbie Shelton
           ******SALAD******
      2 cn Mexicorn; (corn and red and
           -green peppers), 11oz,
           -drained
     15 oz Black beans; drained, rinsed
  4 1/2 oz Sliced Mushrooms; drained
    1/2 c  Green Onions; sliced
    1/2 c  Cucumbers; peeled, slice
           -thin
      2 tb Fresh Jalapeno Pepper;
           -finely chopped
           ******DRESSING******
    1/3 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Rice Wine Vinegar or White
           -Vinegar
    1/4 c  Orange Juice
      1 ts Garlic; minced
    1/2 ts Salt
           *****BEFORE SERVING*****
    1/4 c  Fresh Cilantro; chopped
      1 tb Orange Peel; grated
      2 ts Cumin seed (or 1 ts)
           Lettuce Leaves
 
  In large bowl, combine all salad ingredients; blend well.  In small
  bowl using wire whisk, blend oil, vinegar, orange juice, garlic and
  salt. Pour over salad; toss gently.  Cover; refrigerate 1 to 2 hours
  to blend flavors.
  
  Just before serving, drain salad.  Stir in cilantro, orange peel and
  cumin seed.  Serve in lettuce-lined bowl or on lettuce-lined plates.
  Store in refrigerator.
  
  Makes 11 (1/2-cup) serving.
  
  Pillsbury bake-off recipes - Green Giant Mushroom Edition.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Vegetable Pasties
 Categories: Vegetarian, Herbs/spice, Dessert, Asian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
     50 g  Wholemeal flour
     50 g  Plain white flour
    1/4 ts Salt
     50 g  Margerine

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2    Peeled and chopped onion
      1 tb Oil
    1/2    Crushed garlic clove
    1/2 tb Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
     50 g  Peeled and diced potato
     50 g  Peeled and diced carrots
    210 g  Chick peas
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  Filling.
  
  1. Fry the onion in the oil for 5 minutes and add the garlic, spices,
     carrot and potato. Cook for ten minutes, or until the vegetables
     are tender.
  
  2. Add the chick peas and season with the salt and pepper. Leave to
  cool
     down.
  
  3. Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/GM6.
  
  Pastry:
  
  1. Sift the flours and salt into a large bowl. Add the margerine and
     rub into the flour with your hands until the mixture is like bread-
     crumbs.
  
  2. Add the cold water and press the mixture together to form a dough.
     Turn out onto a floured board and divide into 2 equal pieces.
  
  3. Take out one piece of the dough and knead lightly, pressing it
  into a
     round shape.
  
  4. Roll it into a circle about 15cm across. Put 1/2 of the vegetable
     mixture on top and fold into a pasty type shape and press the edges
     together.
  
  5. Pierce a couple of holes in the top and bake for 20 minutes or
  until
     crisp.
  
  This recipe is also nice with filo pastry, or the samosa packets you
  can buy. If you use filo pastry remember to brush the outside with
  some melted margerine or butter to prevent sticking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Spicy Pea Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, Pasta, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Yellow split peas
    1/2 tb Olive oil
    1/2    Garlic clove
    1/8 ts Chilli powder
    1/4 ts Turmeric
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Ground allspice
    1/8 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Lemon rind
    250 g  Fresh fettucine
           Fresh coriander sprigs
 
  Preparation: crush the garlic clove and chop the onion.
  
  1. Place the peas in a large pan. Cover with cold water.
     Bring to the boil and boil, uncovered for 25 minutes.
     Drain.
  
  2. Heat oil in a pan. Add onion and garlic and cook over a
     low heat for 2 minutes. Add the spices , stirring for
     2 minutes.
  
  3. Add the well drained peas, lemon juice and rind. Stir to
     combine and cook over a low heat for 8-10 minutes.
  
  4. Cook the pasta in a large quantity of boiling water until just
     tender. Drain and place on a large serving plate. Pour sauce over
     the pasta and garnish with the coriander leaves.
  
  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Lentils and Spinach
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetarian, Italian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Red lentils
    250 g  Wholemeal spaghetti
  7 1/2 g  Butter
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2    Onion
      3    Spinach leaves
    1/2 tb Lemon Juice
    1/8 c  Toasted pine nuts
 
  1. Cook the lentils in boiling water until tender. 2. Cook the pasta
  in a large quantity of boiling water until just
     tender. 3. While they are cooking melt the butter in a pan. Add the
  nutmeg
     and onion and cook over a gentle heat until the onion is soft.
     Add spinach, cover and cook until the spinach is just tender. 4.
  Drain the lentils, add the lemon juice;stirring to combine.
     Drain the pasta.
     Combine the lentils, pasta and spinach.
     Place on a serving plate and sprinkle with pine nuts.
     Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Calico Fruit Salad
 Categories: Salad, Fruit, Dressing, Apples
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 qt Ice Berg Lettuce Chunks;
           -(Otherwise Known As Head
           -Lettuce)
      2 c  Tart Apples; Chopped
      2 lg Bananas; Sliced
    1/2 c  Raisins

MMMMM-------------------PEANUT BUTTER DRESSING------------------------
    1/4 c  Peanut Butter
      3 tb Honey
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip Salad Dressing
 
  FOR THE SALAD:
  
  Combine the lettuce and fruit, tossing lightly to mix.
  
  FOR THE DRESSING:
  
  Combine the peanut butter and honey, then gradually add the milk.
  Add the dressing and mix well until well blended.  Chill until
  serving time.
  
  VARIATION:
  
  The dressing may also be served as a dip with apple and pear slices or
  banana chunks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Potato Spears
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lg Baking Potatoes
    1/4 c  Miracle Whip Salad Dressing
           ;Onion Salt
           ;Pepper
 
  Scrub the potatoes and cut them lengthwise into thick slices, then
  cut the slices into thick strips.  Brush the strips with the salad
  dressing. Place on a greased 15 1/2 X 10 1/2-inch jelly roll pan and
  season to taste with the onion salt and pepper.  Bake in a preheated
  375 Degree F for 50 minutes or until tender and golden brown.
  
  NOTE:
  
  The recipe can be doubled for an entertaining snack or to serve with
  hamburgers or bratwurst.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breakfast Pizza
 Categories: Breakfast, Cheese/eggs, Italian, Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Mozzarella Cheese, grated
      6    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Milk and/or cream
           Salt and Pepper, to taste
    1/4 md Onion, chopped
    3/4 md Onion, from above, ringed
      1 md Green pepper, ringed
      1    Pizza crust
 
  Prepare your favorite pizza crust and get ready to bake, as a regular
  pizza.  Make sure that you have a fairly high ridge, as the there is
  a lot of mixture, and it is fairly watery. Pugliese bread dough works
  very well for a crust.
  
  Beat eggs lightly.  Add cheese, onion and salt and pepper.  Mix
  gently.
  
  Lightly brush olive oil over the pizza base.  Pour mixture over the
  crust. Place rings of green pepper over the top.  You can also
  include onion rings, mushrooms, or other favorite Pizza toppings.
  Color contrast helps here, as the mixture is rather plain looking.
  
  Bake at 450 degrees for about 15-20 mins, or when crust is brown and
  egg mixture is set.
  
  I got the recipe from a TV show about how to make Pizzas, on PBS.
  People that won't eat Pizza or Eggs with even go for this!
  
  From Dan Ceppa
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Asparagus Pasta
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Pork, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Fresh asparagus spears or
           - one 10-oz. pkg. frozen
           - asparagus
      2 cn (14-1/2-oz.) stewed tomatoes
           - cut up
      1 tb Dried parsley flakes
    1/2 ts Dried basil, crushed
    1/2 ts Dried oregano, crushed
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper (optional)
      1 c  Evaporated skim milk
           10-oz. multicolored pasta
           - such as wagon wheel or
           - corkscrew
      6 oz Lean fully cooked ham, cut
           - into bite-size strips
      1 sm Red or green sweet pepper
           - cut into strips
           Grated Parmesan cheese (opt)
 
  Snap off and discard the woody bases from the fresh asparagus, if
  using. Bias-slice the asparagus into 1-inch pieces.  (Or thaw and
  drain the frozen asparagus.)
  
  FOR SAUCE, in a medium saucepan combine stewed tomatoes, parsley,
  basil, oregano, and ground red pepper, if desired.  Bring to boiling.
  Simmer the sauce, uncovered, about 15 minutes or till reduced to
  2-1/2 cups, stirring occasionally.  Add the evaporated milk all at
  once, stirring constantly. Heat mixture through; do not boil.
  
  Meanwhile, prepare pasta according to package directions EXCEPT add
  the asparagus, ham and sweet pepper to the boiling water during the
  last 4 minutes of cooking time.  Drain pasta and vegetables.
  
  To serve, place pasta mixture on a serving plater.  Spoon the sauce
  over the pasta.  Serve with Parmesa cheese, if desired.  Serve at
  once.
  
  Makes 4 or 5 main-dish servings.
  
  NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION: 465 calories, 4 g fat, 15 meg chol.
  
  SOURCE: Better Homes and Gardens Magazine, March 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Meat, Dressing, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    4-oz. boneless, skinless
           - chicken breast halves
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 c  Reduced-calorie Catalina
           - salad dressing
      1 tb Dijon-style mustard
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  Rinse chicken; pat dry with paper towels.  Combine the red and black
  peppers; rub over chicken breasts.  Combine the salad dressing,
  mustard and Worcestershire sauce.  Lightly brush both sides of
  chicken breats with some of the dressing mixture.
  
  Place chicken in a shallow baking dish or pan.  Bake, uncovered in a
  375-degree oven for 20-25 minutes or till chicken is no longer pink.
  In a small saucepan heat any remainging dressing mixture just to
  boiling; serve with chicken.  Makes 4 servings.
  
  NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION PER SERVING: 145 cal. 4 g fat, 59 mg chol.
  
  SOURCE: Better Homes and Gardens Magazine, March 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Pepper Potatoes
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    1/2-oz. envelope butter-
           - flavored mix
      1 tb Snipped fresh chives or
           - sliced green onion tops
    1/2 ts Lemon-pepper seasoning
    1/4 c  Water
      1 lb Small red potatoes (6 to 8),
           - cut into 1 inch pieces
 
  In an 11x7x1-1/2 bkg. pan combine the butter-flavored mix, chives, and
  lemon-pepper seasoning.  Stir in the water.  Add the potatoes, toss
  to coat well.
  
  Bake, uncovered, in 375-degree oven for 45 to 50 minutes or till
  potatoes are tender and beginning to brown, stirring twice.  Makes 4
  side-dish servings.
  
  NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION: 125 cal, 0 g fat, 0 mg chol.
  
  SOURCE: Better Homes and Gardens Magazine, March 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chewy Oatmeal Cookie
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Butter flavored Crisco
  1 1/4 c  Firmly packaged light brown
           - sugar
      1    Egg
    1/3 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Quaker(R) Quik Oats (not
           - instant or old fashioned)
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Coarsely chopped Walnuts
 
  Heat oven to 375-degrees F. Grease baking sheet with Butter Flavor
  Crisco. Combine Butter Flavor Crisco, light brown sugar, egg, milk
  and vanilla in large bow.  Beat at medium speed of electric mixer
  until well blended. Combine oats, flour, baking soda, salt and
  cinnamon.  Mix into creamed mixture at low speed just until blended.
  Stir in raisins and nuts.  Drop rounded tablespoonfuls of dough 2
  incheds apart onto paking sheet.  Bake at 375-degree for 10 to 12
  minutes, or until lightly browned.  Cool 2 minutes on baking sheet.
  Remove to kitchen counter.  About 2 1/2 dozen cookies.
  
  VARIATIONS:
  
  HALF-DIPPED COOKIES-Omit raisins & nuts.  Bake and cool. Microwave 1
  cup Duncan-Hines Dutch Fudge Frosting fo 20-25 seconds, or until
  smooth and thin.  Dip top half of cookie in frosting.  Lay on Waxed
  paper until set.
  
  FAVORITE CHIP COOKIES-Omit raisins & nuts.  Add 1 cup baking chips to
  batter.  Bake & cool.
  
  MAPLE WALNUT COOKIES- Omit raisins.  Add 1-1/2 tsp maple flavoring to
  batter.  Bake & cool.  Frost top of cooled cookie with mixture of 1
  container Duncan Hines Vanilla Layer Cake Frosting and 1 tsp maple
  flavoring.  Garnish with walnut half.
  
  SOURCE: Silver Palate Cookbook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Danish Pastry
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    To 6 cups flour
      2 pk Dry yeast or 1 ounce fresh
           -yeast
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3    Whole eggs or 6 egg yolks
      1 ts Grated orange rind
    1/4 ts Ground cardamom seeds
           -(optional)
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  Cold milk (approximately)
      2 c  Butter, firm, but not ice
           -cold
 
  When making Danish pastry it is important to keep the dough very
  cold. In shaping small pastries, it is sometimes necessary to
  re-chill partially shaped dough until it is firm enough for the job
  to be completed. When you first make the pastry, be careful to follow
  all the rules. Don't make it in the summertime unless your kitchen is
  air conditioned. After you gain experience you may attempt short cuts
  such as rolling out and folding the dough twice in succession without
  re-chilling. Another way of shortening the process is by placing the
  dough in the freezer between rollings. Usually 10 minutes in the
  freezer is suffiecient. When you use this short cut, be careful not
  to freeze the dough solid. The shaped pastries can also be chilled in
  the freezer. They can even be baked frozen if extra baking time is
  allowed. Any unbaked yeast pastries, however, should never be kept
  frozen for more than a week or so; and it is preferable to bake anish
  pastry within a day or two after it has been shaped.
  
  Place 4 cups flour in large bowl.  Reserve remaining flour for
  rolling. Make a well in center of bowl.
  
  If dry yeast is used, see directions on package.  If fresh yeast is
  used, cream it with sugar and salt to make a syrup.  Add egg yolks or
  whole eggs, grated orange rind, ground cardamom seeds, and vanilla.
  
  Pour yeast mixture into well.  Add one cup milk and 1/4 cup butter
  cut into pieces.  Mix with finger tips, adding more milk if necessary
  to make a medium-soft dough.  Knead dough in bowl for 5 minutes, or
  until it is smooth but not elastic.  Flour it and let rest in
  refrigerator for 30 minutes.
  
  While dough is resting, form remaining butter into a flattened brick.
  Using some of the reserved flour on wax paper or pastry cloth, roll
  out butter into a square about 1/3 inch thick.  Use plenty of flour
  under and on top of butter to keep it from sticking.  Loosen it
  frequently as you rol. Cut the square in 2 pieces.  Place in
  refrigerator between sheets of wax paper.
  
  Roll out dough on well-floured cloth to make a rectangle 3 times
  longer than wide and about 1/3 inch thick.  Brush excess flour from
  dough. Place a piece of butter in center.  Fold one end of dough over
  butter. Place remaining butter on top.  Fold second end over the
  butter.  Press edges together.
  
  Turn dough, changing its position so that the short ends are parallel
  with the edge of table nearest you.  Roll out on well-floured cloth,
  using a firm, even motion to spread butter together with dough.  Try
  to work quickly, but check frequently underneat the dough to be sure
  it isn't sticking.  Roll out a rectangele 3 times longer than wide,
  about 1/3 inch thick.  rush excess flour from surface.  Fold both
  ends of dough to meet in center.  Press edges together, then fold in
  half as if closing a book, which will make 4 layers of dough.  Flour
  dough.  Place on a cooky sheet. Cover with aluminum foil.
  Refrigerate for 1/2 hour.
  
  Repeat rolling and folding dough 3 more times, chilling it 20 minutes
  between rollings.  Be sure to change position of dough each time so
  that the short ends of dough are parallel with the edge of the table
  nearest you when you start rolling.
  
  After the final folding, chill dough at least 3 hours before shaping
  and baking.
  
  From: The Art of Fine Baking Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Filling for Danish Pastry
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Baker's or pot cheese
      3    Eggs
      4 oz Raisins (optional)
      8 oz Sugar
      1 tb Grated lemon zest
 
  1.  Rub the cheese through a sieve. 2. Using the paddle attachment,
  cream the cheese and sugar until smooth. Add eggs and lemon zest and
  mix in. 3. If desired, add in the raisins.
  
  Yield:  3 lb.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef and Macaroni Chili
 Categories: Main dish, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Macaroni, raw
    1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 pn Salt
      1 pn Pepper, freshly ground
      1 cn Tomato soup
      1 oz Mozzarella cheese 15% mf
 
  Cook macaroni about 7 minutes.  Brown meat in largest saucepan and
  drain off all fat. Add garlic, chili powder, salt and pepper. Mix
  well and cook on low about 5 minutes. Add cooked macaroni and tomato
  soup. Heat thoroughly. Just before serving add grated cheese. Cover
  and heat until cheese melts.
  
  3 protein 1 1/2 starch 1 fruit & veg.
  
  Leftovers are good reheated the next day and can be frozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggless Mock Mayonnaise
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Evaporated milk
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Prepared mustard
      1 pn White pepper
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      4 ts Lemon juice
 
  Makes about 3/4 cup.  Good with coleslaw, egg salad sandwich, potato
  salad.
  
  Combine in mixing bowl (or blender) milk, salt, paprika, mustard and
  pepper.  Beat oil in gradually.  Thin with 3-4 tsp lemon juice.  Keep
  covered in refrigerator.
  
  From Joy of Cooking printed 1983. Shared by Elizabeth Rodier
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Angel Mousse
 Categories: Low-cal/fat, Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Unsweetened strawberries
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Unflavored gelatin (1 packet
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1    Egg, separated
     14 ts Artificial sweetener *
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Almond extract (optional)
    1/4 c  Instant skim milk powder
    1/4 c  Ice water
 
  * equivalent of 14 tsp sugar, may use crushed tablets or liquid
  sweetener according to package directions.
  
  Slice strawberries.  Pour water over strawberries, let stand 1 hour
  at room temperature.  (frozen ones may take longer)  Drain water from
  strawberries into a saucepan; reserve strawberries. Sprinkle gelatin
  over 2 tbsp of liquid drained from strawberries.  Whisk cornstarch
  and egg yolk into remaining water.  Cook and stir over medium heat
  until mixture boils and thickens slightly. Remove from heat. Add
  softened gelatin, sweetener, vanilla and almond extract, stirring
  until gelatin and sweetener dissolve. Stir in strawberries. Chill
  about 30 min or until mixture is partially set. Beat egg white, skim
  milk powder and ice water in a chilled bowl. Fold into thickened
  strawberry mixture.
  
  1 Milk choice, 1 fruit & veg. choice, 1 fat & oils choice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Keefer Court Sticky Rice Dumplings
 Categories: Rice, Pork
      Yield: 20 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      3 c  Glutinous Rice Flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      4 oz Pork loin
      1 ts Rice wine
    1/2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 ts Oil
      1 ts Small chopped bamboo shoot
      1 ts Chopped green onion
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
      1 ts Sesame oil
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Monosodium glutamate
           (opt.)
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 ts Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Water
      4 oz Dry shrimp
      8 c  Oil for frying
 
       For dough:  Mix the rice flour, sugar, and water.  Knead into a
  smooth dough.  Roll into a long roll and cut into 20 pieces.
  
       For filling:  Dice pork, mix with the rice win, cornstarch, and
  salt. Heat pan and oil, stir-fry pork mixture until color changes,
  remove and drain.  Reheat oil and stir-fry the chopped bamboo shoot
  and green onion until fragrant.
  
       Mix the soy sauce, sesame oil, salt, pepper, MSG, sugar,
  cornstarch, and water; add to bamboo shoots and onions.  Bring to a
  boil, stirring, then add the pork mixture and the dry shrimp; stir
  together, then remove from heat; let cool.
  
       Taking one of the dough pieces, flatten with the palm on a hard
  surface.  Using tips of fingers, press into a 2-inch flat circle; use
  a little oil on your fingers if dough is very sticky.  Place a portion
  (1/20th) of filling into the center of the dough circle, fold in half
  and pinch edges to seal.  Repeat, forming 20 meat-filled crescents.
  
       Heat oil for frying in a large wok or kettle until 350 to 375
  degrees. Deep-fry half the dumplings until they rise to the surface
  and are golden brown and expanded, 4 to 5 minutes.  Remove, drain,
  and repeat procedure for remaining dumplings.
  
  Makes 20.
  
  Posted by Ewan Grantham. Reposted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Siopow (Steamed Dumplings)
 Categories: Asian, Appetizer
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      1    Wrapper recipe
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Oil
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Chopped shrimp
    1/4 c  Ground pork
      1 c  Minced water chestnuts
    1/4 c  Minced scallions
    1/4 c  Minced onions
      1    Egg
      1 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt
 
  Boil wrapper. Remove from heat and pour in 1 1/2 cup flour and beat
  until it forms a ball.  Divide into 1 1/4 inch balls and roll each
  until paper thin.  Spoon 1 tbls. mixture into each wrapper, fold and
  seal. Arrange in steamer and steam 30 minutes.
  
       Again some expanation... these can be made with much thicker
  wrappers (the ones the street vendors sell are more like 1/2 to 1
  inch thick) and the filling can be just about anything.  I have done
  these with leftover meat and a few vegetables ... such as mushrooms,
  celery etc.
  
  Courtesy of Ted Taylor. Reposted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sui Mai Pork Dumplings
 Categories: Appetizer, Chinese
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      3    Black Mushrooms, dried
    1/3 c  Bamboo Shoots, canned
    1/2 lb Pork Loin with Fatback
      1 ts Sesame Oil
      1 ts Rice Wine or Dry Sherry
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1    Egg White
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Granulated Sugar
    1/4 ts White Pepper, freshly
           Ground
     30    Won Ton Skins, defrosted
 
     * The 1/2 lb pork loin should be ground with 1 ounce of fatback.
  
        Cover mushrooms with boiling water and soak for 15 minutes.
  Drain, trim and discard tough stem ends and finely mince caps.
  Blanch bamboo shoots for 1 minute in boiling water; drain, pat dry
  and mince finely.
  
       In a large bowl, combine pork, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, sesame
  oil, rice wine, cornstarch, egg white, salt, sugar and pepper until
  well mixed. From into 30 1-inch balls.  Trim the corner of won ton
  wrappers to form circles; cover with plastic wrap to prevent them
  from drying out.
  
       To assemble, place a meatball in the center of each wrapper and
  bring up sides, to form an open topped basket.  Flatten the top of
  each meatball with a butter knife dipped in water and flatten bottoms
  of dumpling so they stand upright.  Place on a lightly oiled plate
  and set in bamboo steamer or on an inverted heatproof bowl or trivet
  set in a wok filled with 2 inches of boiling water.  Cover and steam
  for 5 to 8 minutes or until done. Serve meatballs hot and garnish
  plate with sprigs of fresh corianders. Makes 30.
  
  Makes 30 dumplings.
  
    From The Gazette, 91/09/11.
  
  Posted by James Lor. Reposted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fun Gwau (Steamed Translucent Dumplings)
 Categories: Chinese, Appetizer
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      6    Dried Chinese black
           Mushrooms
      6 oz Shrimp, shelled & deveined
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Peanut oil
      6 oz Ground pork butt
    1/4 c  Finely diced bamboo shoots
    1/4 c  Finely diced water
           Chestnuts, preferably fresh
      2    Green onions, chopped
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 tb Shao Hsing rice wine or dry
           Sherry
  1 1/2 ts Light soy sauce
      2 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Chicken stock
      2 tb Coarsely chopped fresh
           Coriander leaves
      1    Oil
           Wheat Starch Wrappers
           (see recipe)
           Light soy sauce, for
           Dipping
           Chinese mustard, for
           Dipping
 
  can be prepared entirely in advance and reheated a few minutes before
  serving.  The wheat starch wrappers have an interesting chewy
  texture, a unique translucent appearance and are absorbent of
  flavors.  Roll out the wrappers as thin as possible; otherwise they
  come out rubbery.
  
       Cover mushrooms in warm water for 20 minutes or until soft and
  pliable.  Remove and squeeze out excess water from the mushrooms.
  Cut off the stems at the base and discard them.  Finely mince the
  caps.
  
       Toss the shrimp with salt and let them stand 10 minutes.  Rinse
  well with cold water, pat dry thoroughly.  Coarsely mince.
  
       Preheat a wok or skillet. when hot, add the peanut oil. over
  medium- high heat, add the mushrooms, shrimps, pork butt, bamboo
  shoots, water chestnuts, and half the green onions; stir-fry until
  the pork turns white. Season with the sugar, white pepper, wine and
  soy sauce.  Combine the cornstarch and chicken stock in a small bowl
  and mix until smooth; pour into wok.  Stir fry for 1 minute longer.
  Remove the mixture to a shallow plate and mix in the remaining green
  onion and coriander.  Allow the filling to cool, then refrigerate it
  until needed.
  
  Makes almost 2 cups of filling.
  
       Prepare the Wheat Starch Wrapper dough.  Pinch off 1-inch balls
  of dough.  Lightly oil the ball and flatten it into a thin 3 1/2-inch
  circle. An oiled Chinese cleaver is traditionally used; however, a
  tortilla press or a rolling pin works.  Put 1 large teaspoon of
  filling in the center of the circle.  Fold it in half and pinch the
  edges to seal the filling inside.  Repeat with remaining dough and
  filling.
  
       Place dumplings without touching each other on a lightly oiled
  bamboo steamer (or a heat resistant plate).  Steam over boiling water
  for 3 minutes.  Serve hot, dipped in light soy sauce and Chinese
  mustard. Serve with Chinese Mustard, for dipping.
  
  Makes 2 1/2 dozen dumplings.
  
  Posted by Stephen Ceideburg. Reposted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wheat Starch Wrappers for Dumplings
 Categories: Bread, Chinese
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      1 c  Wheat starch
    1/4 c  Tapioca starch
      1 c  Boiling water
      1 tb Peanut oil plus more to oil
           The wrappers
 
       Combine the wheat starch and tapioca starch in a mixing bowl.
  When the water reaches a boil immediately pour it into the flour and
  stir vigorously into a ball, with a wooden spoon.  The hot boiling
  water cooks the starches.  Add the oil to the dough and mix together
  as well as possible.  The dough at this point is quite thick and
  lumpy.
  
       While hot, gather up the dough and knead on a lightly oiled
  surface until smooth and well blended, about 3 minutes.  It should
  feel a bit rubbery and putty-like.  Cover with a damp towel.
  
       Dough is ready to make Ha Gow or Fun Gwau.
  
  Makes enough dough for 2 1/2 dozen Ha Gow or Fun Gwau dumplings.
  
  Posted by Stephen Ceideburg. Reposted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruited Rice Pudding
 Categories: Pudding, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Skim milk
    1/4 ts Ground cimmamon
    1/4 c  Plus 1 Tbsp brown sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Long grain rice
      1    Egg yolk, at room
           Temperature
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Nectarines and/or plums,
           Pitted and diced
 
  Makes 6 servings
  
  In medium saucepan, bring milk, cinnamon, 1/4 cup brown sugar and
  salt to boiling.  Stir in rice.  Reduce heat to low; cover, simmer
  35-45 minutes or until rice is tender.  Stir occasionally.
  
  In small bowl, beat egg yolk.  Stir in 1/3 cup hot rice mixture into
  egg yolk.  Slowly pour egg mixture back into rice mixture, stirring
  rapidly. Cook, stirring constantly, 5 minutes or until mixture
  thickens. Remove saucepan from heat.  Stir in vanilla. Serve warm or
  cover surface of rice with plastic wrap.  Chill until ready to serve.
  
  Meanwhile, toss fruit with remaining 1 Tbsp brown sugar; let stand 15
  minutes.
  
  Spoon rice pudding into dessert bowls; top with fruit.  Serve any
  remaining fruit on the side, if desired.
  
  Woman's World From the collection of Jim Vorheis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beet Relish
 Categories: Relish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 c  Coarsley shredded cooked
           Beets
      2 tb Chopped red onion
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Dijon mustard
      3 tb Vegetable oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Combine all ingredients in a small bowl and blend well. Chill
  thoroughly. Yield: About 2 cups.
  
  NOTE: Relish keeps well stored in the refrigertor for up to 1 week.
  
  SOURCE: *Evelyn Kenney, Trenton, NJ, Reminisce Magazine Mar./April 93
  POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout in Wine (Nz)
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Whole  Trout
           Chopped herbs (marjoram,
           Parsley, thyme)
           Butter
 
      1/2  botle White wine
  
  Method: 1. Clean the trout. The incision in the belly should be as
  small as possible consistent with the requirement to remove the
  entrails and clean. 2. Inside the cleaned trout place the chopped
  herbs and a tablespoon of butter. 3. Place the fish in an oven dish
  and add salt and pepper to taste. 4. Pour two cups of wine over the
  fish. 5. Cook in hot oven about 25 minutes. 6. Add a little more
  melted butter, stir in and cook for another 5 minutes.
  
  SOURCE: *Kiwi Cookbook, by Alan Armstrong, Seven Seas Publishing Pty
  Ltd, PO Box 1431, Wellington, New Zealand, (C. 1968) ISBN 85467 016 5
  SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef and Barley Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Beef
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 tb Cooking oil
      2 lb Beef short ribs
      2 md Onions, coarsely chopped
      3    Carrots, sliced
      3    Stalks  Celery, sliced
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (28 oz.),
           With liquid, chopped
      2 ts Water
      4    Chicken bouillon cubes
    1/3 c  Medium pearl barley
 
  In a large dutch oven or kettle, heat oil over medium-high. Brown
  beef. Add onions, carrots, celery, tomatoes, water and bouillon;
  bring to a boil. Cover and simmer for about 2 hours or until beef is
  tender. Add barley; simmer another 50-60 minutes or until barley is
  done. Yield: 10-12 servings. (3 1/2 qts.)
  
  SOURCE: *Phyllis Utterback, Glendale, CA, Country Magazine,
  Feb./Mar.93 POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Reuben Loaf
 Categories: Bread, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  3 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 pk Active dry yeast
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Butter or margarine,
           Softened
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Warm water (120 to 130
           Degrees)
    1/4 c  Thousand Island salad
           Dressing
      6 oz Thinly sliced corned beef
      4 oz Swiss cheese
      1 cn Sauerkraut (8 oz.), drained
      1    Egg white, beaten
           Poppy seeds
 
  In a mixing bowl, combine 2 1/4 cups flour, yeast, sugar, butter and
  salt. Stir in warm water and mix until a soft dough forms. Add
  remaining flour if necessary. Turn out onto a lightly floured
  surface; knead until smooth, about 4 minutes. On a lightly greased
  baking sheet, roll dough to a 14 inch x 10 inch rectangle. Spread
  dressing down the middle of one half of the dough, leaving a 3/4 inch
  space along edges. Top with layers of beef, cheese and sauerkraut.
  Fold the remaining half of dough over the meat mixture. Pinch edges
  together to seal. Cut small slits in dough to vent Baste with 1 egg
  white and sprinkle with poppy seeds. Bake at 400 degrees for 25
  minutes or until lightly browned. Serve immediately; refrigerate
  leftovers. Yield: 6-8 servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Armetta Keeney, Carlisle, IA, Country Magazine, Feb./Mar.93
  POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken & Pasta Salad
 Categories: Salad, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Tricolor rotini
      4    Boneless, skinless chicken
           Breast,halves
      2 tb Soy sauce, divided
      1    Oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 md Green pepper, chopped
      1 md Red pepper, chopped
    1/2    Bunch fresh broccoli
      1 ts Mrs. Dash
      8 oz Lo-cal Italian dressing,
           Store bought or homemade
 
  1.  Cook pasta according to directions, chill in ice water, drain.
  
  2.  Blanch broccoli in boiling water, chill in ice water, drain.
  
  3.  Use 1/2 soy sauce to season the chicken, heat oil in no stick pan,
      brown chicken, and reduce heat and finish cooking.  Don't
  overcook!
  
  4.  Slice chicken into 1" strips, turn and cut into 1/4" pieces, place
      into bowl with other ingredients except dressing and soy sauce.
  
  5.  Mix remainder of soy sauce into dressing and pour over pasta,
  chicken,
      and vegetables.  Toss gently and serve immediately.
  
  You maight like to leave the pasta, chicken, broccoli un-chilled and
  serve it semi-warm.
  
  Posted by Mike Hackmann 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sourdough Starter
 Categories: Bread, Sourdough
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2 c  Water
      1    Yeast
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Flour
 
  SOURDOUGH STARTER Combine flour, yeast and water. Let stand in a warm
  place at least 12 hours. Add: sugar, milk, and flour. Mix
  thouroughly. Set in refridgerator until ready to use in recipe. After
  taking batter for use in recipes "feed" the remaining batter with the
  same amounts of sugar, milk, and flour stated above.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Dough Bread
 Categories: Bread, Sourdough
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Batter
      2 tb Sugar
    1/8 ts Soda
    1/4 c  Melted shortening
      3 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
 
  SOUR DOUGH BREAD Pour 2 c. batter into depression in a quantity of
  flour. Add melted shortening, soda dissolved in small amount of
  water, sugar and salt. Mix until you form a ball you can handle.
  Knead just the flour the dough will hold. Grease well. Set aside to
  raise double. Cut, place in greased pan.  Brush with milk.  Set aside
  to raise double - 1/2 hour. Bake at 400 degrees F.  35 to 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sourdough, Pt. 2
 Categories: Bread, Sourdough
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Unbleached all-purpose
           Flour, divided
      1 ts Active dry yeast
      2 c  Hot (120F to 130F) water
      1 c  Lukewarm (100F) water
           SOURDOUGH STARTER
 
  Yield : Approximately 4 cups Difficulty: (one chocolate kiss, or easy)
  Prepartion: 10 minutes Allow at least 4 days for the starter to
  ferment before using. "Day 1: 1. In a medium bowl, stir together 2
  cups of the flour and yeast.  Make a well in the middle of the
  flour/yeast mixture and whisk in the hot water. Continue stirring
  until the mixture is blended but not completely smooth. It is not
  necessary to smooth out all the lumps; they will dissolve as the
  mixture start to ferment. Cover the bowl with a clean towel and let
  the mixture sit at room temperature. Over the next 24 hours the
  mixture will rise, become very bubbly and then start to recede.
  
  "Days 2 and 3: 2. Stir the mixture twice, once in the morning and
  once in the evening to invigorate the yeast and to expel the alcohol.
  Towards the end of the second day the mixture will start to thin and
  the surface of the starter will be covered with lots of tiny air
  bubbles. By the evening of the third day a thin layer of yellow-brown
  liquid may form on the surface of the starter. It is simply the
  alcohol given off by the yeast cells as they feed on the
  carbohydrates in the flour and multiply. Refresh the starter by
  stirring in the cup of lukewarm water (100F) and the remaining cup of
  flour. Stir until blended, but do not worry about any small lumps.
  
  "Day 4: 3. The starter is now ready to use, or it may be poured into a
  sterilzed 2 quart glass or ceramic covered crock or casserole, or a
  flass jar with a non-metal lid and refrigerated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Raspberry Shortcakes
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Granulated sugar
    1/4 ts Double acting baking powder
      4 tb Heavy cream
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Cold unsalted butter
           Cut into bits
      2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
    1/4 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 c  Raspberries
      2 tb Granulated sugar, or to
           Taste
      1 tb Framboise, or to taste
    1/3 c  Well-chilled heavy cream
           Connfectioners sugar for
           Sprinkling
           Mint sprigs for garnish if
           Desired
 
  From Gourmet/May 1991 For the shortcakes
      Make the shortcakes:  In a bowl sift together the cocoa powder,
  the flour, the sugar, the baking powder, baking soda, and salt, add
  butter, and blend the mixture until it resembles coarse meal. Add the
  cream and stir the mixture with a fork until it forms a dough.
  Divide the dough in half, arrange each half in a mound on a lightly
  greased baking sheet, and bake the shortcakes in the middle of a 425
  oven for 12 min., or until a tester inserted in the centers come out
  with crumbs clinging to it. Transfer to a rack to cool.
  
  In a bowl mash 3/4 cup of the raspberries with a fork, stir in 1
  tbsp. of the granulated sugar and the framboise, stirring until the
  sugar is dissolved, and stir in the remaining 3/4 cup raspberries.
  In a small bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream until it holds
  soft peaks, add the remaining 1 tbsp. granulated sugar, and beat the
  cream until it holds stiff peaks.  Cut the shortcakes in half.(The
  shortcakes are delicate and crumble easily.)  Top each bottom half
  with half the raspberry mixture, divide the whipped cream between the
  2 shortcakes. With a spatula carefully top each serving with the top
  half of a shortcake. Sprinkle with confectioners sugar and garnish
  with mint. Serves: 2 Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Raspberry Mousse Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------CHOCOLATE CAKE----------------------------
      3    Eggs, separated
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder

MMMMM----------------------RASPBERRY SYRUP---------------------------
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Raspberry liqueur

MMMMM----------------------RASPBERRY MOUSSE---------------------------
  1 1/2    Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Water
      2 pk (each 300 grams) frozen
           Raspberries, thawed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Raspberry liqueur
      2 c  Whipping cream

MMMMM----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
 
  This recipe makes double the amout of cake needed, so you'll be able
  to freeze the extra cake to have on hand when you want to make an
  encore of these fabulous flavors.
  
  CHOCOLATE CAKE:   In large bowl, beat egg yolks with 1/4 cup of the
  sugar until very pale.  In separate bowl, beat egg whites until soft
  peaks form; gradually beat in remaining sugar until stiff peaks form.
  Fold egg white mixture into egg yolk mixture. Sift flour and cocoa
  over egg mixture; gently fold in.  Pour into buttered 8 inch
  springform pan;bake in 350F oven for 30-35 minutes or until top
  springs back when lightly touched. Run knife around edge of cake to
  loosen.  Let cool on wire rack.
  
  RASPBERRY SYRUP:  In small saucepan, combine sugar and water; cook
  over medium heat until sugar has dissolved, about 1 minutes.
   Stir in liqueur.  Let cool.
  
  RASPBERRY MOUSSE:  In small saucepan, sprinkle gelatin over water; let
  stand for 5 minutes to soften.  Pass berries through food mill to
  puree and remove seeds to make aobut 2 cups. Transfer puree to
  separate saucepan. Add sugar and lemon juice; cook over medium heat,
  stirring occasionally, until sugar hs dissolved, about 5 minutes.
  Stir in liqueur; transfer to large bowl.  Over low heat, heat gelatin
  until dissolved; stir into raspberry mixture.  Chill, stirring
  occasionally,over larger bowl of ice and water for about 20 minutes
  or until consistency of raw egg whites. Whip cream; fold into cooled
  raspberry mixture. Reserve 1/2 cup for garnish.
  
  TO ASSEMBLE: Cut cake into 3 or 4 thin layers; reserve 2 layers and
  freeze remaining layers for another use.  Sprinkle 1 cut side of each
  of the 2 layers with raspberry syrup.  Place 1 layer, syrup side up,
  in 9 inch springorm pan; pour in half of the raspberry mousse. Top
  with second cake layer;pour in enough of the remaining mousse to come
  almost to top of pan. Smooth surface.  Refrigerate until firm, 1-2
  hours.
  
  CHOCOLATE GLAZE: In top of double boiler over hot, not boiling,
  water, melt chocolate with crea, stirring until smooth.  Let cool to
  room temperature yet still spreadable; pour over mousse and spread
  evenly. Spoon remaining mouse into pastry bag fitted with small plain
  tip; pipe three concentric circles over top of cake.  Pull toothpick
  through circles to form spiderweb design.  Refrigerate until chilled.
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Tomato, Bacon and Onion Fettucine
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 oz Uncooked fettuccine
      3    Slices bacon
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  (1 medium) chopped tomato
      1 tb Chopped fresh basil OR
    1/2 ts Dried basil leaves
 
  Cook fettuccine to desired doneness as directed on package.  Drain,
  keep warm.
  
  Meanwhile, cook bacon in medium skillet until crisp; remove bacon and
  drain on paper towels.  Reserve 1 Tbsp. drippings in skillet.  Add
  onion; cook until crisp-tender.  Crumble bacon; add to onion with
  tomato and basil. Cook just until heated.  Immediately toss with
  cooked fettuccine. 4 side dish servings; 2 main dish servings.
  
  From: Pillsbury, Pasta, Rice & Beans Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bacon, Cabbage and Pasta Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Slices bacon, cut up
      2 c  Coarsely shredded cabbage
      2    (14-1/2 oz.) cans beef
           Broth
      1    (16 oz.) pkg. Green Giant
           Frozen Pasta & Vegetables
           Accent Garden Herb
           Seasoning
 
  Cook bacon in large saucepan until crisp; remove bacon and drain on
  paper towels. Crumble bacon. Cook cabbage in broth until crisp
  tender. Stir bacon, broth, frozen vegetables and pasta, and water
  into cabbage. Bring to a boil; stir. Reduce heat; cover and simmer 6
  to 8 minutes or until vegetables are tender. From: Pillsbury, Pasta,
  Rice & Beans Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fuzzy's Fantastic South Texas Road Meat Chili
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 md Bell peppers; chopped
      3 md Onions; chopped
      2    Fresh Jalapenos; deveined &
           Seeded
      4    Garlic cloves
      4 lb Chuck; coarsely ground
      5 lb Venison; coarsely ground
      6    Drops Tabasco
      7 oz Green chiles; diced
     28 oz Stewed tomatoes
           Water
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Chop vegetables.  Heat oil in a well-seasoned iron pot.  Sizzle the
  vegetables in the oil a little, then add meat and brown.  Stir in the
  remaining ingredients, and cover with about one inch of water.
  Season to taste with salt and pepper.  Let it bubble slowly three to
  four hours. Skim the grease after it's cooked two hours and taste
  again to adjust the seasoning.
  
   Forrest (Fuzzy) Goodhue
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb, Lentil, and Rosemary Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Butter
      3 cl Garlic, minced
      2    Onions, chopped
      2    Carrots, cut into small
           Cubes
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      6 c  Lamb stock
      2 c  Chopped very ripe tomatoes
           Or canned tomatoes
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Bone from a roast leg of
           Lamb
      1 c  Cubed cooked lamb
           Tabasco or other liquid hot
           Pepper sauce
 
       1.  In a large soup pot, heat the olive oil and butter over
  moderately low heat.  Add the garlic, onions, carrots, half the
  rosemary, the thyme, and salt and pepper to taste.  Simmer, Add the
  lamb stock, tomatoes, lentils, bay leaf, and the lamb bone from the
  roast if you still have it and bring the soup to a boil. Reduce the
  heat and simmer, partially covered, for about 40 to 50 minutes, or
  until the lentils are tender. Taste for seasoning.
  
     2.  To serve, place a small handful of cooked lamb in the bottom
  of each soup bowl and ladle the hot soup over it.  Garnish with the
  remaining fresh rosemary.  Serve with a bottle of Tabasco on the side.
  
  Serves 4 to 6.
  
  From:  LEFTOVERS by Kathy Gunst, Harper Perennial, New York.
        Shared by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Stock
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Bone from a 6-lb leg of
           Lamb, cut in half
      3    Stalks celery, cut into
           Small pieces
      2    Carrots, cut into small
           Pieces
      2    Onions, peeled and
           Quartered
      1 lg Ripe tomato OR
      1 c  Canned tomato, cut into
           Small pieces
           Any drippings from roast
           Lamb
      4    Peppercorns
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Parsley
 
  add enough water to just cover the lamb bone.  Bring to a boil over
  high heat, reduce the heat, and simmer, partially covered, 1 to 2
  hours, or until the stock is somewhat reduced and flavorful. If it
  tastes weak, simply raise the heat a bit and let it reduce further.
  
     2.  Drain the stock into a colander set over a large bowl. Remove
  the bones and cut any remaining meat off and set aside. Discard the
  vegetables and bones.  Remove any fat that has floated to the top.
  The stock can then be refrigerated or frozen, or used right away to
  make a soup.
  
  Makes about 8 cups.
  
  From:  LEFTOVERS by Kathy Gunst, Harper Perennial, New York.
        Shared by:  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Good Luck" Rice Custard
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Raw rice
      2 cn Evaporated milk (5 ounces
           Each)
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2    Box vanilla pudding (3
           Ounce size)
      5    Eggs, separated
      1 ts Vanilla
           Cinnamon to taste
           Milk
 
       Cook the rice in 4 cups of water, add the sugar and cook until
  almost tender.  Add the evaporated milk and raisins.  Mix the pudding
  in a cup of milk and add to the rice mixture.  Beat the egg whites
  until stiff. Beat the yolks separately and then mix the whites and
  yolks mixture. Then turn off the heat.  Mix well.  If it seems a
  little thick just add some more milk.
  
  Serves 6 or more. The Legends of Louisisna Cookbook; Sheila Ainbinder;
  Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocada Imperial (Imperial Coconut Flan)
 Categories: Dessert, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
      1    Small coconut
      5    Small eggs, separated
           Pinch   salt
           Flan mold coated with
           Caramel
 
       Preheat the oven to 450F.
  
       Place the sugar and milk in a heavy saucepan and melt the sugar
  over low heat, then raise the heat and boil the mixture briskly.
  Take care that it does not boil over.  As soon as the mixture begins
  to thicken, stir it so that it does not stick to the bottom of the
  pan.  After about 30 minutes it should be the consistency of thin
  condensed milk and has been reduced to 1 cup.  See Note.
  
       Pierce holes through two of the "eyes" of the coconut and drain
  the water from it.  Set the water aside.
  
       Put the whole coconut into the oven for about 8 minutes.  Crack
  it open; the flesh should come away quite easily from the shell.
  
       Pare the brown skin from the coconut flesh with a potato peeler.
  Grate the coconut finely.  You will need 2 1/4 cups, loosely packed,
  for the flan.
  
       Add the grated coconut to the reserved coconut water and boil it
  for about 5 minutes, stirring it constantly.
  
       Add the "condensed" milk and continue cooking for another 5
  minutes. Set the mixture aside to cool.
  
       Beat the egg yolks together until they are creamy and stir them
  well into the coconut mixture.
  
       Beat the egg whites until they are frothy, add the salt and
  continue beating until they are stiff.  Fold them into the mixture.
  
       Pour the mixture into the prepared mold.  Cover the mold with a
  well-greased lid and place into a water bath.
  
       Cook the flan on the lowest shelf of the oven for about 1 1/2
  hours, then test to see if it is done.  When it is done, set it aside
  to cool.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
  
  NOTES:
       Of course, you can substitute1 cup of lightly thinned canned,
  sweetened condensed milk for the milk and sugar and substitute
  pre-grated but unsweetened coconut.  Use milk instead of coconut
  water; the flavor will just not be quite as good.
  
       Do not think you have done something wrong when you see that the
  coconut and custard have separated.  That is how it is meant to be.
  The caramel will nearly all have been absorbed by the spongy layer of
  coconut.
  
       If you are using fresh coconut there will almost certainly be
  some left over.  It will keep perfectly well if frozen.
  
       To test to see if the flan is cooked through, insert the blade
  of a knife or a skewer well into the flan.  The knife should come out
  clean. Take care not to pierce the flan at the bottom or it will
  spoil the appearance of the top when it is unmolded.
  
  From: The Cuisines of Mexico; Diana Kennedy; ISBN 0-06-091561-7
  Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: George Liu's Moo Goo Gai Pan
 Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Chicken, Stir fry
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4    Chicken breast halves,
           Skinned, boned and sliced
           Salt and pepper, to taste
      4 cl Garlic, minced
      2 c  Water
      1 tb Cornstarch
      5 tb Corn oil
      8 oz Fresh mushrooms, sliced
      4 lb Chinese white cabbage,
           Chopped
      2 tb Sugar
      4 tb Soy sauce
      6    Scallions, chopped
 
       In a bowl, toss the sliced chicken with the salt and pepper,
  garlic and cornstarch mixture.  Set aside.
  
       Heat 3 tablespoons of the corn oil in a wok and add the
  mushrooms, cabbage and sugar.  Stir-fry for 2 minutes, then cover and
  cook for 5 minutes.  Remove from the wok.
  
       Heat the remaining 2 tablespoons of corn oil in the wok and
  stir-fry the chicken for 2 minutes over high heat.  Add the soy sauce
  and mix well. Cover and cook for about 6 minutes, or until the
  chicken is cooked through. Add the cooked vegetables and the
  scallions.  Toss everything together for about 1 minute.  Serve hot
  with steamed rice.
  
  Makes 10 servings.
  
       [The Washington Post; Dec 11, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Chicken Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Appetizer, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     36    Chicken drumettes (bottom
           Part of chicken wing)
      2 cl Garlic
      1    Inch fresh ginger, peeled
      1    Onion, quartered
      1 ts Red pepper flakes
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Ground coriander
      3 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Sesame oil
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Sesame seeds (approx)
 
       Wash the chicken pieces and pat dry.  Place in a bowl.  Combine
  the remaining ingredients except the sesame seeds in a blender and
  puree. Pour the mixture over the chicken and stir to coat all the
  pieces well. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours.
  
       Remove the chicken from the marinade and sprinkle with the sesame
  seeds.  Place under the broiler for 5 to 6 minutes on each side.
  Serve hot.
  
  Makes 6 to 8 servings as hors d'oeuvres.
  
  From "The Joys of Christmas"; Helen Feingold and Mary Lee Gristani.
  
       [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 8, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polenta Triangles
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizer, Microwave
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Cold water
      1 c  Coarse yellow cornmeal
      1    Env. onion soup mix
      4 oz Mild chopped green chilies,
           Drained (1 can)
    1/2 c  Whole kernel corn
    1/2 c  Red pepper, roasted and
           Finely chopped
    1/2 c  Sharp Cheddar cheese,
           Shredded
 
       Bring the water to a boil in a 3-quart saucepan.  With a wire
  whisk, stir in the cornmeal and onion soup mix.  Simmer uncovered,
  stirring constantly, for 25 minutes, or until thickened.  Stir in the
  chilies, corn and roasted red peppers.
  
       Spread the mixture in a lightly greased 9-inch-square baking pan
  and sprinkle with the cheese.  Let stand for 20 minutes, or until
  firm.  Cut
  
  MICROWAVE:  Combine the water, cornmeal and onion soup mix in a
  microwave-safe casserole.  Cover and microcook on HIGH (100%) for 20
  minutes, stirring every 5 minutes (mixture will be thick).  Stir in
  the chilies, corn and roasted red peppers.  Spread into pan as above.
  
       [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 8, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Shrimp
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Seafood, Appetizer
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 lb Extra large shrimp, peeled
      1 tb Fresh lime juice
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Red pepper
    1/8 ts Black pepper
           Lime wedges
 
       Toss the shrimp with the lime juice in a bowl.  Mix the garlic
  powder, onion powder, thyme, salt, red pepper and black pepper in a
  small bowl. Sprinkle over the shrimp and toss to coat well.
  
       Spray a large skillet with non-stick cooking spray.  Heat until
  hot.
   Add the shrimp and cook for 3 minutes, or until the shrimp are pink,
  stiring constantly.  Spoon into a serving dish.  Chill, covered, for
  1 hour or longer.  Garnish with lime wedges.
  
  Makes 15 servings.
  
  From "Season of Wonder: Christmas 1990".
  
       [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 8, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cayenne Pepper Wafers
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 72 servings
 
    1/2 lb Gruyere cheese, grated
      1 c  Unsalted butter, at room
           Temperature
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      1 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans.
 
       Heat the oven to 350F.  Cream the cheese and butter.  Sift
  together the cayenne pepper, salt and flour; add gradually to the
  butter mixture. Add the chopped nuts and mix well.  Divide the dough
  in half and shape into logs 1 1/2 inches in diameter.  Wrap well and
  refrigerate for at least 1 hour.
  
       Line baking sheets with parchment paper.  With a sharp knife,
  cut the logs into 1/4-inch thick slices.  Place the wafers 1 to 2
  inches apart on the baking sheets.
  
       Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until lightly colored.  Cool and
  store in an airtight container.
  
  Makes 6 dozen.
  
       [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 8, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Christmas Crab Quesadillas
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizer
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 lb Butter or margarine,
           Divided
      1    Whole shallot (or 2 or 3
           Green onion), finely
           Minced
      1 ts Chopped fresh chives
    1/2 lb Lump crab meat, picked over
           To remove shells
      2 tb Sour cream
      1 ts Chopped fresh dill
           Salt, to taste
           Hot pepper flakes, to taste
      6    10-inch flour tortillas at
           Room temperature
    3/4 c  Grated Monteray Jack cheese

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
    1/2 c  (each) finely chopped red
           And green bell peppers
           Radicchio leaves, 3 per
           Plate
           Salsa
           Quacamole
           Sour cream
 
  Preheat the oven to 375F.
  
     Reserve 2 tablespoons of the butter.  Place the remaining butter
  in a sauce pan and melt over low heat.  Add the shallots and chives.
  Saute until translucent.  Remove from the heat and add the crab, sour
  cream, dill, salt and hot pepper flakes.  Mix well.
  
     Spread the crab mixture on one half of each tortilla.  Top with a
  sprinkling of the grated chese.  Fold the tortillas in half and place
  them on a baking sheet.  Brush the tops of the tortillas with the
  reserved butter.
  
     Bake in the preheated oven for about 5 minutes or until the tops
  are golden brown.  Let rest for 5 minutes before cutting into
  quarters.
  
     Place 3 small radicchio leaves on each plate.  Fill one with sour
  cream, one with quacamole, and one with salsa.  Place three triangles
  of quesadilla on each plate.  Sprinkle with a confetti of chopped
  green and red bell peppers.
  
  Serves 8.
  
     [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 11, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Fritters
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizer
      Yield: 24 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Warm water
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 lb Crabmeat
    3/4 c  Fresh white breadcrums
      4 lg Egg whites, divided
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt and pepper, to taste
           All-purpose flour, for
           Dredging
           Vegetable oil,for deep
           Frying

MMMMM------------------------CURRY SAUCE-----------------------------
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Garlic clove, minced
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Orange Juice
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Chutney
 
       Mix the first five ingredients in a medium bowl to blend.  Let
  the bater stand for 1 hour at room temperature.  Mix the crabmeat,
  bread crumbs, two of the egg whites and the parsley in a large bowl.
  Season with salt and pepper.  Divide the mixture into 24 mounds.
  press each mound firmly into a ball.  Roll each crabmeat ball in
  flour; shake off excess. Immediately before frying, beat the
  remaining egg whites in a small bowl to stiff peaks.  Fold the egg
  whites into the batter.
  
       Heat the oil in a deep fryer or heavy saucepan to 360F.  Dip the
  crab balls, one at a time, into the batter, coating completely.
  Carefully lower into the oil.  Repeat with the remaining crab balls,
  cooking until pale and golden brown, about 5 minutes.  Use a slotted
  spoonto transfer the fritters to paper towels and drain.  Serve with
  Curry Sauce.
  
  Makes 24 fritters.
  
  NOTES:
       Do not overcrowd the fryer or saucepan when making these crab
  fritters.  Make no more than 5 fritters at a time.
       Be certain to slide the fritters gently into the hot oil.
  Dropping them into the oil can can cause a dangerous splash.
       Turn the fritters frequently as they fry, making sure that all
  sides are browned.
  
       Heat the oil in a small heavy skillet over medium heat.  add the
  garlic and saute for 1 minute.  Add the curry powder and stir for 1
  minute. Transfer the mixture to a blender.  Add all of the remaining
  ingredients and blend until smooth.  Pour into a bowl.
  
       [The Baltimore Sun; Dec 11, 1991] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingerbread Teddy Bears
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 c  Butter (or margarine)
    2/3 c  Brown sugar
    2/3 c  Corn syrup and/or molasses
      4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
    3/4 ts Baking soda
      1    Egg; lightly beaten
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
    In a saucepan combine butter, brown sugar and corn syrup. Cook and
  stir
    over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Pour into large mixing
  bowl; cool
    5 minutes. Sift together flour, cinnamon, ginger, cloves and baking
  soda.
    Add egg and vanilla to butter mixture; mix well. Add flour mixture;
  beat
    til well mixed. Divide dough in half, cover and chill 2 hours or
    overnight. For each bear, shape dough into one 1-inch ball, one
  3/4-inch
    ball, six 1/2-inch balls and one 1/4-inch ball. On ungreased cookie
  sheet
    flatten the 1-inch ball to 1/2" thickness for body. Attach the
  3/4-inch
    ball for head and flatten to 1/2" thickness. Attach the 1/2-inch
  balls for
    arms, legs and ears. Attach the 1/4-inch ball for nose. Bake at 350
    degrees for 8 to 10 minutes, cool and decorate. I usually make these
    smaller than described here; about 1/2 the size. Also, the ears
  start to
    look like MOUSE ears if they're not a little smaller than the arms
  and
    legs. Roll the nose ball to make it more oval in shape and place it
  on the
    LOWER half of the bear's face. These can be decorated with any
  icing-- I
    use tinted Royal icing made from meringue powder to add eyes, nose
  and bow
    tie to each bear. For Easter, make these into bunnies. Use only
  light corn
    syrup, no molasses. Substitute white sugar for the brown sugar. Omit
    spices and add a bit of almond extract if desired. Make them the
  same way,
    but make two long ears on the top and two cheek-balls instead of the
    nose-ball. Decorate with pastel icings.       Karen Mintzias TCVC49A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Iowa Corn Casserole
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Bacon, diced
      2 c  Bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Minced onion
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
      2 cn Cream style corn
           (16.5 oz. ea.)
 
  In a skillet, fry the bacon until lightly browned. Remove and set
  aside. Pour 1/8 to 1/4 cup of the bacon drippings over bread crumbs;
  set aside. Discard all but 2 tablespoons of remaining drippings;
  saute onion and green pepper until tender. Stir in corn and bacon.
  Spoon into a 1 quart baking dish; sprinkle with crumbs. Bake at 350
  degrees for 20-25 minutes or until bubbly and heated through. Yield:
  6-8 servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Dorothy Morgan, Cedar falls, IA, Country Magazine,
  Feb./Mar.93 POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Pot Roast
 Categories: Italian, Beef
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Rump roast (4-5 lbs.)
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Cooking oil
      2 cl Garlic, minced
    1/2 ts Dried basil
      1 tb Dried parsley flakes
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Carrots, sliced
      1    Whole  Onion, studded with
           2 whole cloves
      1 cn Tomato puree (15 oz.)
    1/2 c  Water or red wine
    1/2 ts Beef bouillon granules
           Cooked egg noodles
 
  Rub roast with salt. In a dutch oven, brown roast in oil. Add all
  remaining ingredients except noodles. Bring to a boil; reduce heat
  and simmer, covered, about 2-3 hours or until meat is tender. Discard
  onion. Remove roast; cut into slices. Serve over noodles with gravy.
  Yield: 8-10 servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Georgie Seidler, Pine Grove, CA, Country Magazine,
  Feb./Mar.93 POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower Au Gratin #2
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 tb Butter or margarine
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      4 oz Cooked ham, chopped
           Cauliflower, brokem into
           Florets
      2 tb All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
           Pinch  Cayenne pepper
  1 1/2 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
           (4-6 oz.)
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Melt butter in a large skillet. Saute garlic and ham for 2 minutes.
  Add cauliflower and cook until crisp-tender. Combine flour and cream;
  stir into skillet and blend well. Add salt, pepper and cayenne
  pepper. Cook and stir until thickened and bubbly; cook and stir 1
  minute more. Pour into a 2 quart baking dish. Sprinkle with cheese.
  Place under a preheated broiler until lightly browned, about 2-4
  minutes. Sprinkle with parsley. Serve immediately. Yield: 6 servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Jacki Ricci, Ely, NV, Country Magazine, Feb./Mar.93 POSTED
  BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Meatballs #2
 Categories: Pork, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 lb Ground pork
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    3/4 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
      1 tb Snipped fresh parsley
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/2 c  Milk
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 cn Sauerkraut (27 oz.),
           Undrained
    1/2 c  Water, optional
      1    Parsley
 
  In a mixing bowl combine first 10 ingredients; shape into 18
  meatballs, 2 inches each. Heat the oil in a skillet; brown the
  meatballs. Remove meatballs and drain fat. Spoon sauerkraut into
  skillet; top with meatballs. Cover and simmer 15-20 minutes or until
  meatballs are done. Add water if necessary. Sprinkle with parsley.
  Yield: 6 servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Iona Redemer, Calumet, OK, Reminisce Magazine Jan/Feb 93
  POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Rice #2
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Rice, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1    (16 oz.) jar salsa
      1    (11 oz.) can Mexicorn whole
           Kernel corn with red and
           Green peppers
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Chili powder
  1 1/2 c  Uncooked instant rice
      4 oz (1 cup) shredded Monterey
           Jack cheese
 
  Brown ground beef in large skillet; drain.  Stir in salsa, corn,
  water and chili powder; bing to a boil.  Stir in rice.  Cover; remove
  from heat. Let stand 5 to 7 minutes or until liquid is absorbed.
  Fluff mixture with fork; sprinkle with cheese.  Cover, let stand 2 to
  3 minutes or until cheese is melted.  7 (1 cup) servings.
  
  From: Pillsbury, Pasta, Rice & Beans Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Pudding #2
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Rice, long grain
      6 c  Water, boiling
      1 qt Milk
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter, melted
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Almond extract
           Nutmeg, to taste (fresh)
    1/2 c  Almonds, blanched, coarsely
           Ground
      1 c  Heavy cream, whipped
 
  Place rice in a strainer and pour the boiling water over rice. Drain
  well. steep 1 hr., or until all is thick and creamy.  Stir in butter,
  sugar, almonds and extract, nutmeg and almonds. Serve warm or
  chilled, with whipped cream.
  
    Jeff Smith, "The Frugal Gourmet on our Immigrant Ancestors"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Chicken and Dressing
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken
    1/2 cn Water
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
    1/2 c  Melted butter or chicken
           Broth
      1 cn Cream of celery soup
      1    Pepperidge Farm corn bread
           Stuffing
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Easy Chicken and Dressing Debone
  chicken, cut into bite-size pieces. Mix with soups and water. Put in
  a 9x13 inch baking dish. Sprinkle bread stuffing over this mixture.
  Pour broth or butter over it. Bake for 30 minutes at 350 degrees or
  until stuffing is brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carmeled Peanuts
 Categories: Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Peanuts
      1    Egg white
      1 ts Cold water
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Kathi Crockett Now, I'd better get a
  recipe in here before the troups kick me out. Here's a fun and very
  easy party recipe for candied nuts: CARMELED PEANUTS Beat egg white
  and water until frothy - not stiff. Add peanuts, stir until they are
  well coated. Combine sugar and salt then pour this over the nuts &
  eggwhite mixture. Bake at 225 on a greased, tinfoil lined cookie
  sheet. Stir every 15 minutes for 1 hour.
  
  This makes a nice, big batch and is delicious. You can also use other
  nuts. I first started doing this because I was always at a loss as to
  what to do with the leftover nuts from Christmas and this certainly
  takes care of them in short order. It's one of those recipes where
  you can't eat just one.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Cacciatoria
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken, cut up
      1 cl Garlic, peeled
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Oil
     28 cn Tomatoes
      8    Pearl onions, peeled
      6    Tomato paste
      2 ts Sugar
      1    Bay leaf
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Chicken Cacciatoria Rub
  chicken with garlic. Mince garlic and save. Combine flour, 1 tsp
  salt, and pepper in large paper bag; shake chicken pieces until
  coated. Heat oil in Dutch oven. Brown chicken a few pieces at a time
  on all sides; drain on absorbent paper. Pour off any oil remaining in
  pan. Return chicken to Dutch oven. Add garlic, tomatoes, tomato
  paste, onions, sugar, 1 tsp salt, and bay leaf. Cover. Basting
  occasionally with sauce in the pan, simmer 1 hour or until chicken is
  tender.
  
  Serves 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Tuna Steaks on the Grill
 Categories: Chinese, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Tuna steak
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Finely chopped ginger root
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Salted black beans
      4    Green onions with tops
      2 ts Green chilies
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Water
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Peanut oil
      2 ts Finely minced garlic
      1 c  Chicken broth (or fish
           Stock)
           Spinach or red-leaf lettuce
           Leaves
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bill Birner
  
  Pat fish dry w. paper towels. Mix salt, ginger & pepper. Coat both
  sides of fish with mixture and rub 1 tsp. cornstarch on both sides of
  fish. Cover & refrigerate 30 minutes.
  
  Place black beans in bowl and cover with warm water. Stir about 2
  minutes. Remove and drain. Discard water. Partially pulverize beans.
  Chinese cooks use the back end of their cleaver handle.
  
  Cut 3 of green onions on diagonal into 1 inch pieces, remaining one
  into thin slices (strings).
  
  Remove seeds and membranes from chilies. Cut chilies into very thin
  slices.
  
  Mix 1 Tbs cornstarch, water and sugar.
  
  [If grilled fish is preferred, grill on charcoal about 4-5 minutes
  each side or 10 minutes per inch of thickness, not too close to coals
  ~ otherwise fry in wok]
  
  Heat wok until hot & add 2 Tbs oil, tilting to coat sides. Fry fish 2
  minutes or until brown, turning once. Reduce heat to low, cover and
  simmer 10 minutes turning after 3 minutes. Uncover & remove from wok.
  
  Bring wok back up to very hot over high heat. Add 1 Tbs oil, tilt &
  coat. Add black beans, chilies, garlic & green onion pieces & stir
  fry all for 1 minute. Add broth/stock and heat to boiling. Stir in
  cornstarch/sugar water mixture, stir cooking until thickened. Add
  fish steaks turning to coat with sauce. Heat 2 minutes.
  
  Line platter with spinach/lettuce leaves, place fish on bed and
  garnish top with green onion slivers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Buckle
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Shortening
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
           Fruit of choice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Fruit Buckle
  
  Cream together shortening and sugar. Add 1 beaten egg, then sift
  flour, baking powder, and salt to mix. Add flour mixture, alternating
  with 1/4 cup milk to the egg mixture. Pour into greased 8 inch pan.
  Spread fruit on top and sprinkle with crumb topping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crumb Topping for Fruit Buckle
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Butter
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Crumb Topping Mix all ingredients
  together of topping with fork until fine crumbles. Put on top of
  fruit and bake at 350 degrees for 25 to 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Cobbler
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4    Stick butter
    3/4 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      2 c  Sweetened fruit
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Fruit Cobbler Melt butter in deep
  casserole dish. Mix sugar, flour, baking powder, and milk together;
  pour over melted butter. Don't stir. On top, pour 2 cups sweetened
  fruit. Bake for 45 minutes to 1 hour at 325 degrees.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peach Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Eggs, beaten
      1 cn Eagle Brand milk
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      8    Fresh peaches, peeled and
           Mashed
           Vanilla flavoring
           Sweet milk
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Peach Ice Cream
  
  Beat eggs, add sugar and beat, then add Eagle brand milk. Beat, add
  mashed peaches and flavoring. Pour into freezer containerand finish
  filling with sweet milk; stir real well. Freeze
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus with Rice
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/4 lb Asparagus
      1    Onion
    1/4 c  Butter
  1 1/4 c  Arborio rice
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1    Bouillon cube
    1/2 ts Meat extract
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 tb Butter
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Vincent Mcguire Asparagus with Rice
  
  Soak and rinse the asparagus. Cut off the tips and put aside. Boil the
  stalks in lightly salted water. When tender, press the stalks through
  a sieve and return the pulp to the cooking water. Keep hot. Finely
  chop the onioin. Melt the butter in a saucepan and gently fry the
  onion and the asperagus tips for a few minutes. Add the rice, mixing
  and turning with a wooden spoon until the grains are coated in the
  fat. Pour the wine over the rice, raise the heat and boil briskly
  until the wine has evaporated. Dilute the bouillon cube and the meat
  extract in the hot asperagus water. Add a little of the liquid to the
  rice, lower the heat, stir and add more liquid as it reduces, until
  the rice is al dente. Adjust the seasoning if necessary, glaze the
  rice with 1 tbsp butter and add the grated cheese. Stir well and
  serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Runza
 Categories: Italian, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Hamburger
    1/2 x  Cabbage
      1    Onion
      1    Partially frozen Bread
           Dough
           Salt+papper
           Cheese (velveeta)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sukee Bailey Hello, try this for dinner,
  Keep in the Freezer for left overs, and when you want it again.. just
  heat-up with Microwave oven. RUNZA OVEN TEMP. 350-375
  
  Brown hamburger and onion. drain, add cabbage and simmer. Slice bread
  dough and roll out on Floured board. Fill with hamburger + cabbage,
  put slice of cheese pinch tight. Bake till Brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jean Chretien's Tortiere
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Pork - ground
      1    Onion - minced
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      1    Tomato - small, cooked and
           Mashed
           Salt and pepper
           Pastry for 1 double-crust
           Pie
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Calgary Sun -
  Monday, June 18, 1990 Jean Chretien's Tortiere
  
  Combine all ingredients except potato and cover with water. Simmer for
  1-1/2 hours. Drain, reserving the liquid. Add mashed potato to meat.
  Pour into uncooked pie shell. Sprinkle a bit of the liquid over the
  mixture. Cover with pie crust and crimp edges. Cook at 350F for 1/2
  hour or until crust is golden. Bon appetit!
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: John Nunziata's Chocolate Cheese Cake
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Graham wafer  crumbs
      5 tb Butter - melted
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Chocolate - semisweetened,
           Grated
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sugar
      3 pk Cream cheese - 8-oz.
     12 pk Chocolate - semisweet,
           1-oz. squares
      1 c  Sour cream
    3/4 c  Butter - melted
           Whipped cream (optional)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Calgary Sun -
  Monday, June 18, 1990 John Nunziata's Chocolate Cheese Cake
  
  Combine first four ingredients and press into the bottom of a 8-inch
  springform pan. Beat eggs and sugar with electric beater until a pale
  mixture. Mix well. Melt chocolate in double boiler. Stir in sour
  cream, butter and vanilla. Add to cheese mixture and stir. Pour
  batter into pan. Bake at 325F for 2 hours or until centre is firm.
  Cool on wire rack. Remove from pan. Chill and serve with whipped
  cream.
  
  Serves 10.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paul Martin's Rhubarb Meringue Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 c  Flour - sifted
    1/3 c  Shortening
      5 tb Cold water
           Salt - pinch

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Rhubarb - cut into 1-inch
           Pieces
      3 tb Flour
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Egg yolks
    1/3 c  Orange juice
           Orange rind - from one
           Orange
      1 tb Butter

MMMMM--------------------------MERINGUE-------------------------------
      2    Egg whites
      4 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Calgary Sun -
  Monday, June 18, 1990 Here are some more recipes from the Liberal
  leadership hopefulls. Paul Martin's Rhubarb Meringue Pie
  
  To make pastry, sift flour and salt and cut in shortening until
  mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add water and work with a fork until
  mixture holds together. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 10
  minutes. Roll pastry and fit into a 9-inch pie plate. Prick with a
  fork and bake at 400F for 10 minutes.
  
  For filling, sift sugar and flour together and add rhubarb. Cook
  slowly until mixture thickens, stirring constantly. Stir in egg yolk
  and cook 1 minute longer. Remove from heat and add orange juice, rind
  and butter. Cool and pour into baked pastry shell.
  
  Meringue: beat egg whites until frothy. Add sugar by the tablespoon,
  beating until stiff. Add vanilla. Spread meringue over the pie and
  return to 350F oven for 10-12 minutes, or until lightly browned.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sheila Copps' Unity Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef stew meat
  1 1/2 c  Celery - diced
  1 1/2 c  Carrots - sliced
      1    Onion - large, sliced
      4    Tomatos - large, cubed
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste

MMMMM----------------------BISCUIT TOPPING---------------------------
      2 c  Flour
      4 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Shortening
      1 c  Milk or light cream
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Calgary Sun -
  Monday, June 18, 1990 Sheila Copps' Unity Stew Cook beef in 3 cups of
  water until almost tender. Add vegetables and seasonings. Cook over
  low heat until tender. Turn into baking dish. Make biscuits by
  combining dry ingredients and cutting in shortening until mixture
  resembles coarse crumbs. Make a well in the centre and add the milk
  all at once. Stir batter vigorously until it comes freely from the
  side of the bowl. Knead lightly on a floured board for a few seconds
  and pat into a thickness of 1/2-inch. Cut into 1-1/2 inch biscuits
  and place biscuits over surface of stew. Bake at 450F until biscuits
  are golden brown.
  
  Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tom Wappel's Stuffed Green Peppers
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Green peppers - large
      1 lb Pork - ground
      1    Egg - lightly beaten
    1/2 c  Rice - uncooked
      1    Onion - small, chopped
      6    Bacon strips - cooked and
           Crumbled
      1 ts Tomato sauce
      6 ts Tomato juice
      1 tb Paprika
           Salt and Pepper
           Sugar to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: Calgary Sun -
  Monday, June 18, 1990 Tom Wappel's Stuffed Green Peppers
  
  Place meat in a bowl and add rice, salt, pepper, bacon bits, onion and
  paprika. Add egg and mix thoroughly. Cut stem end off green peppers
  and remove seeds and ribs. Soften peppers for a minute or two in
  boiling water, then fill with the meat mixture. Place peppers upright
  in a deep saucepan. Combine remaining ingredients and pour over
  peppers, the liquid should come to about 2 inches from the top of the
  peppers. Add more tomato juice if required. Cover and cook slowly for
  1-1/2 to 2 hours. Add more sugar or a touch of lemon juice to adjust
  flavor.
  
  Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boneless Cornish Hen W/port Orange Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Cornish game hens
           (2 lb each)
           Salt and pepper
      1    Peel of 1 orange, thinly
           Sliced
      1 ts Lemon juice
  1 1/2 oz Orange liqueur (Curacao)
      1 c  Mandarin orange sections
      2 c  Wild rice mix
      2 c  Orange juice
      4 ts Brown sugar
           Cornstarch
      1    Bunch watercress
 
  To prepare hens for stuffing, remove the skin from the backbone area
  and set aside. Cut out the backbone, open the hen and remove all
  bones except the drumsticks. Boil the wild rice until tender, cool
  and stuff hens. Close the hen with drumsticks in the air and use the
  skin from the backbone to wrap the hen so it will stand in the baking
  pan breast side up. Season hens with salt and pepper. Roast at 350F
  for 45 minutes to 1 hour.
  
  SAUCE: Combine the orange juice, lemon juice and brown sugar in a
  saucepan and bring to a boil. Use cornstarch mixed with a little
  water to achieve desired thickness. Stir in liqueur and peel and keep
  warm.
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Beef
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Top round steak, thinly
           Sliced (like Brasciole)
      2 tb Sherry
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2    Egg whites
      6 tb Peanut oil

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Beef stock
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Red wine vinegar
      5    Dried red chile peppers,
           Broken into pieces
      8    Thin slices of orange rind
           (orange part only) or more
           Fresh ground black pepper
           To taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephanie Dicamillo Originally from:
  Chinese co-worker Orange Beef
  
  Whisk together the sherry, cornstarch, and egg whites until the
  mixture is foamy. Add the beef and toss to coat the pieces well. Set
  aside. Cut meat into 2x2-inch pieces. Heat 4 Tbsp. peanut oil in wok.
  Fry quickly, just until crispy and browned, remove to wok rack to
  drain.
  
  Add remaining 2 Tbsp. peanut oil to wok. Add orange rind and red
  peppers to hot oil in wok. Stir-fry until orange rind begins to
  darken and aroma from oil becomes pleasant. Add remaining ingredients
  and stir until bubbly (add more beef stock if too thick). Add fried
  beef and toss to coat with sauce. Serve at once with steamed white
  rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne Pasta W/tomatoes & Chile
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 tb Crushed red chile
    1/2 c  Sun-dried tomatoes, cut in
           Slivers
      1 c  Black olives, cured in oil,
           Pitted and halved
    1/2 c  Fresh basil, chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh Italian parsley,
           Chopped
      1 tb Grated lemon peel
      3 cl Garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Oil from the tomatoes
      2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    3/4 lb Parmesan cheese, grated
      1 lb Penne pasta
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephanie Dicamillo Originally from: "The
  Whole Chile Pepper" magazine, Dec. 1989 Penne Pasta with Sun-Dried
  Tomatoes and Chile Combine all ingredients, except the cheese and
  pasta, and let sit at room temperature for a couple of hours to blend
  the flavors.
  
  Cook the pasta in 4 quarts of boiling salted water until tender but
  still firm - 'al dente'. Drain.
  
  Toss the pasta with the sauce and cheese until well coated and serve.
  
  Serves: 6 Heat Scale: 5
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chile Tuna Sea Shells
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Green chiles, skinned,
           Seeds removed, chopped
      2 tb Prepared chile sauce
      1 cn White tuna, drained and
           Flaked
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
      2 ts Prepared horseradish sauce
      4    Green onions, chopped
    1/4 c  Green olives, sliced
    1/2 lb Sea shell macaroni
      1    Avocado, peeled, pit
           Removed, chopped
      2    Sprigs cilantro, chopped
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephanie Dicamillo Originally from: "The
  Whole Chile Pepper" magazine, Dec. 1989 Chile Tuna Sea Shells Cook
  the macaroni in 4 quarts of salted water until just done but still
  firm. Drain and rinse in cold water.
  
  Combine all the ingredients, except the avocado and cilantro, and
  allow to sit for 2 hours to blend the flavors. Garnish with the
  avocado and cilantro and serve.
  
  Serves: 4 Heat Scale: 5
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Tenderloin W/apple & Onion
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Pork tenderloin
      2    Granny Smith Apples
      2 c  Chopped onion
      8    Garlic cloves,peeled
      3 tb Olive oil
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb Wine vinegar
      1 tb Honey
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: CIS
  TENDERLOIN OF PORK WITH APPLE, ONION, AND GARLIC GRAVY Brown the meat
  on all sides in a skilled. You may use either one 3 pound roast or
  two 1-1/2 pound roasts. Remove the meat and put into a roasting pan
  with a close fit.
  
  In the pan in which you browned the meat, saute the onions and garlic
  for 5 minutes. Add the apples, and continue sauteing for about 2
  minutes longer. Add the broth, vinegar, honey and stir until mixed.
  Add salt and pepper to taste.
  
  Pour the gravy over the pork, cover with foil, and bake for 1 to 1-1/2
  hours at 325 until the pork is done. Remove pork from pan and let sit
  for 10 minutes before carving. Slightly mash the gravy, and serve.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Tomatoes and Corn
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish, Tomato
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn (16 oz) tomatoes
      1 tb Sugar
           Pinch rosemary
           Pinch black pepper
     16 oz Frozen corn kernels
      1    Green bell pepper, chopped
      2    Onions, chopped
      2 tb Chili colorado (or you can
           Use any hot sauce - use
           Less if you like)
      1 tb Margarine
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Dry bread crumbs
      1 c  Grated cheese
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Leti Labell Baked Tomatoes and Corn
  
  Pour off the liquid from the canned tomatoes. Simmer the tomatoes
  with the sugar and spices for about 5 minutes. Add the corn, green or
  red pepper, onion, chili colorado or chili sauce, margarine, and
  salt. Cook slowly for about 15 minutes.
  
  Spray a casserole dish with non-stick vegetable spray. Place alternate
  layers of vegetable mixture, bread crumbs, and cheese, ending up with
  a layer of cheese. Bake in a 400 degree oven for about 20 minutes, or
  until the top is brown.
  
  Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Venison Roast
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Chunk of venison roast (or
           Roll it if its in steak
           Form)
      2 c  Onion - Cut up (2 in.
           Pieces)
      2 c  Potato - Cut up     "
      1 c  Carrots - cut up     "
      1 c  Fresh mushrooms - sliced
      2 tb Liquid smoke
      3 tb (or more) Worchestershire
           Sauce
      3 tb (or more) Soy Sauce
    1/2 c  Beef broth
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Bob Lester Assorted Meat herbs (whatever
  you like) Put a LARGE oven cooking bag in an oblong baking pan (so
  that the bag fits inside the pan). To the bag, add the venison. Add
  all liquids, then veggies around the meat. Put the 'shrooms on top of
  everything else, then the spices on top of them. You want to have
  about 1 inch of liquid in the bottom of the bag, so if you need more,
  add a little water (or white wine!).
  
  Seal bag. Poke several small holes in top of bag to let steam escape.
  Bake at 300-325 for 3-1/2 hours. (If you chop the veggies big, they
  won't overcook).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Pork Chops
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Pork chops
      3 tb Peanut oil
      2 md Onions, sliced
      2 cl Garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 cn Tomatoes
      3 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      3 c  Hot cooked rice
           Tabasco sauce to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Knox Creole Pork Chops Brown pork
  chops on both sides in 1-1/2 tablespoons hot oil in skillet; drain
  chops and discard drippings. Add 1-1/2 tablespoons oil. Saute onions
  and garlic in skillet for 3 minutes. Add green pepper. Saute for 1
  minute. Add wine. Bring to a boil; stirring to deglaze skillet.
  Return chops to skillet; spoon sauce over chops. Add tomatoes, lemon
  juice, seasonings, and enough water to cover chops if necessary.
  Simmer, lightly covered, for 1 hour or until chops are tender,
  turning occasionally. Remove chops to warming platter. Remove bay
  leaf. Cook sauce over high heat until thickened to desired
  consistency. Spoon over chops. Serve over rice.
  
  Yeild:  6 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic White Sauce W/variations
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Merrilyn Vaughan Originally from: Betty
  Crocker's Cookbook BASIC WHITE SAUCE
  
  Blend milk and flour. Add butter [melted]. Mix together. Heat on
  medium in 'nuker about one minute. Stir. Repeat till reaches desired
  thickness.
  
  Variations:
  
  Cheese - add 1/2 c. cheese and either 1/4 tsp. dry mustard or 1/4 tsp.
  spice sauce such as teriyaki or Worcestershire, etc. .
  
  Red - add 3 Tbls. ketsup.
  
  Curry - 1/2 tsp. curry powder.
  
  Cucumber - add 1/2 c. grated or diced 'cukes and pinch of cayenne.
  
  Sea Food - add 1/2 c. cooked. coctail shrimp or chopped other sea
  food.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Cheese Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Microwave
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Velveeta, cubed
    1/4 c  Milk
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Merrilyn Vaughan EASY CHEESE SAUCE Melt
  together. About 2 + 1/2 minutes to 4 minutes on HIGH in 'nuker.
  
  Use with pasta, veggies, or fish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/8 ts Dill
           Salt to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Merrilyn Vaughan Originally from:
  "Microwave: Super Suppers in 30 Minutes", a Globe mini-guide SOUR
  CREAM SAUCE Mix cornstarch and water till no lumps and very smooth [a
  roux!]. Stir in rest. Cook on Medium-high for one minute or till warm
  and thick. Stir often to keep everything in suspension.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Yogurt Dill Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Carton lemon yogurt
      1 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Dill
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Merrilyn Vaughan Originally from:
  "Microwave: Super Suppers in 30 Minutes", a Globe mini-guide LEMON
  YOGURT DILL SAUCE
  
  Combine all in 2 cup glass pyrex container. 'Nuke on HIGH for one and
  1/2 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Onion-Smothered Pork Chops
 Categories: Pork, Microwave
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Tenderloin chops
      3 tb Flour
      1 ts Sage
      1    Onion
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      2 ts Beef bouillon
      2 tb A-l sauce
    1/4 c  Parsley
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Barbara Zack CREAMY ONION-SMOTHERED PORK
  CHOPS Slash edges of pork chops. Combine flour and sage. Dredge chops
  in flour.
  
  Place in casserole with tenderloin inside. Top with onion. Whisk soup,
  milk, bouillon, steak sauce and remaining flour until smooth. Pour
  over chops, coating all. Cover and microwave at 30% for 15 min. Turn
  and rearrange chops and push beneath sauce. Cover and microwave 15
  more min. at 30%, then let stand for 10 min. Skim off excess fat and
  serve.
  
  Servings: 2
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Brownies
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1    Butter
      4 oz (4 sq) unsweetened
           Chocolate
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans/walnuts
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  All purpose flour
           (sifted)
    1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Line an 8 x 8 glass baking dish with buttered wax paper. Break
  chocolate into small pieces and place in a bowl with the butter. Cook
  in microwave on high for 3 minutes, until the chocolate has
  completely melted. Beat eggs and sugar together until creamy. Sift
  flour with salt and baking powder. Stir all ingredients together.
  Spread mixture evenly into baking dish. Cook for 8-1/2 minutes,
  rotating dish 1/4 of a turn thrice during cooking period. Cool
  brownies in the dish. Remove paper and cut brownies into squares.
  
  Servings: 16
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Croutons
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Bread cubes (about
           1/2-inch cubes)
      2 tb Butter
           Dash of Herb Seasoning
           Dash Season-All
           Dash garlic salt
 
  HERB CROUTONS: Toast bread cubes in 300F oven until dry and crisp and
  golden brown. Saute in butter seasoned with Herb seasoning,
  Season-All, and garlic salt. Use in Caesar salad, potato dumplings;
  spoon on top of soups or use as a topping for vegetables and
  casseroles.
  
  Makes 1 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Piccata
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Chicken breasts *
    1/2    Cube of butter
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Clove garlic, mashed
    1/2 c  Chopped Italian parsley
      2    Fresh lemons **
      1    Small jar of capers
           Small amount of salt
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  * boned, skinned and pounded to 1\4" thick ** slice one thinly and
  squeeze the other of its juice
  ======================================================================
  ====
  
     Cut boned, skinned, pounded chicken breasts into eight serving
  pieces (4 chicken breasts will serve 6 people as it is better to have
  some leftover than not enough).  Melt butter in non-stick pan.  Add
  vegetable oil and heat till sizzling.  Quickly saute garlic in oil
  and remove piece of garlic before it gets brown or it will taste
  bitter.  Quickly saute over medium high heat the flattened chicken
  breasts.  Sprinkle with freshly ground black pepper and the juice of
  the one lemon.  (DO NOT SALT NOW.) When you turn the chicken breast
  portions, also place in pan the chopped Italian parsley and the
  thinly sliced lemon and let that saute briefly, too. The chicken will
  only take about a minute or so on each side so make sure everything
  else is ready.  Add drained jar of capers to the pan and swirl it in
  the oil/butter so everything is well coated with the garlic and lemon
  flavor.  Salt sparingly.
  
   To serve, place over a bed of rice, cous cous or fettucine on an
  oblong platter, overlapping portions of chicken piccata and drizzling
  the oil\butter\garlic\parsley and capers down the center of the
  chicken portions.  Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa Con Queso Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Velveeta Process Cheese
           -Spread, cubed
    1/2 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
 
  Combine ingredients in saucepan. Cook over low heat, stirring
  frequently, just until sauce is smooth. Serve with corn chips,
  tortilla chips or vegetable dippers. Makes about 2 cups.
  
  MICROWAVE OVEN DIRECTIONS:
  
  Combine ingredients in 1-quart microwave-safe bowl. Cook at HIGH 3-4
  minutes or until cheese spread is melted, stirring after each 1-1/2
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Nachos
 Categories: Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Tortilla chips (8 oz)
      1 pk Velveeta Shredded Process
           -Cheese food (8 oz)
      8 oz Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa

MMMMM---------------------OPTIONAL GARNISHES--------------------------
           Sliced ripe olives
           Guacamole
           Sliced jalapeno peppers
           Sour cream
 
  Place tortilla chips on baking sheet; sprinkle with cheese food. Bake
  at 350'F. until cheese food melts, 3-4 minutes. Pour ace Thick &
  Chunky Salsa over chips. Garnish as desired.
  
  MICROWAVE OVEN DIRECTIONS:
  
  Microwave a 9" plateful of cheese food-topped chips at HIGH 1 minute
  or until cheese food melts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Huevos Rancheros
 Categories: Breakfast, Snack
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
      8    Eggs
           Butter or margarine
      4    Corn tortillas, warmed or
           -crispy fried
 
  Heat Pace Thick & Chunky SDalsa in small saucepan. Fry eggs sunny
  side up in butter. Place 2 eggs on each tortilla; top with salsa.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexi-Cali Layered Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Ripe avacado, peeled,
           -seeded and mashed
      1 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 md Tomato, chopped
    3/4 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
           -OR
    1/2 c  Monterey Jack cheese
    1/4 c  Thinly sliced ripe olives
 
  Combine avacado, 2 tablespoons Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa, lemon juice,
  salt; mix well. Stir in tomato. Spoon evenly onto rimmed 9" serving
  plate or into 8" pie plate; cover and chill. To serve, spread sour
  cream over top. Spoon remaining Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa over sour
  cream; sprinkle with cheese and olives. Serve with chips or vegetable
  dippers. Makes about 3-1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Classic Cream Cheese-Salsa Spread
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Regular or light cream
           -cheese (8 oz)
           Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
           Chopped fresh cilantro (opt)
 
  Place cream cheese on rimmed plate; let stand at room temperature
  about 30 minutes to soften. Pour Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa over and
  around cream cheese. Garnish with cilantro, if desired. Serve with
  vegetable dippers, crackers or chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Cheesy Salsa Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Pasteurized process cheese
           -spread (8 oz)
    1/2 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
    1/4 c  Dairy sour cream

MMMMM---------------------OPTIONAL TOPPINGS--------------------------
           Sliced green onion tops
           Chopped cilantro
           Diced red bell peppers
 
  Combine cheese spread, Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa and sour cream; mix
  well. Transfer to serving bowl; top as desired. Serve chilled with
  vegetable dippers or unsalted chips. Makes about 1-2/3 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tostada Grande
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 lb Ground beef or pork
      1 cn Whole tomatoes, drained and
           -chopped
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Salt
     12    Tortillas, 6-8"
      1 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
  1 1/2 c  Shredded cheddar or
           -Monterey Jack cheese
      2 c  Shredded lettuce
      1 md Tomato, chopped
      1    Ripe avacado, peeled,
           -seeded, sliced
 
  Brown meat; drain. Stir in tomatoes, cumin and salt; cover and simmer
  5 minutes. Cover bottom and sides of 12" pizza pan with tortillas,
  overlapping attractively. Spread with Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa; top
  with meat mixture. Bake at 350'F. oven 20 minutes. Sprinkle with
  cheese. Arrange lettuce, tomato and avacado over top. Cut into wedges
  using scissors or small knife and serve with additional Pace Thick &
  Chunky Salsa.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tex-Mex Tuna Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 cn Solid white tuna in water,
           -drained and flaked (6.5 oz)
    1/2 c  Sliced ripe olives
    1/2 c  Sliced green onions w/tops
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced celery
    2/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
      1 ts Ground cumin
           Lettuce leaves
           -OR
           Shredded lettuce
     12    Taco shells
           -OR
      3 c  Tortilla chips
 
  Combine tuna, olives, green onions and celery in medium bowl. Combine
  Pace Picante Sauce, sour cream and cumin; mix well. Pour over tuna
  mixture; toss lightly. To serve, line taco shells with lettuce
  leaves; spoon tuna mixture into shells. Or, line individual serving
  plates with shredded lettuce; top with tuna mixture and surround with
  tortilla chips. Drizzle with additional Pace Picante Sauce; top with
  additional sour cream, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Salad Ole
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
           -OR
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Dried oregano, crushed
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    3/4 lb Deli roast beef, sliced
           -1/4" thick, cut into short,
           -thin strips
      1 md Tomato, seeded and diced
      1 md Cucumber, cut lengthwise
           -into quarters, seeded and
           -thinly sliced
      1 md Red or green bell pepper,
           -or 1/2 each, cut into
           -short, thin strips
      1 c  Thinly sliced celery
      1 c  Short, thin red onion strips
 
  Combine Pace Picante Sauce, oil, vinegar, oregano and garlic; mix
  well. Place beef in plastic bag; pour half of Pace Picante Sauce
  mixture into bag. Close bag securely; chill at least 1 hour or up to
  12 hours. Just before serving, arrange meat and vegetables on serving
  platter. Pass remaining dressing and serve with additional Pace
  Picante Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab 'n Avacado Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Pace Picante Sauce
    1/3 c  Mayonnaise
           -OR
    1/3 c  Light mayonnaise
      2 tb Tomato paste
      2 tb Sugar, or less
      1 tb Sweet pickle relish
      1 lb Crab meat or imitation crab
           -meat, cut into bite-size
           -pieces
    1/4 c  Thinly sliced or chopped
           -ripe olives or pimiento-
           -stuffed green olives, as
           -desired
      4    Ripe avacados
      2    Hard-cooked eggs, sliced or
           -cut into wedges (opt)
 
  For dressing, in small bowl, comebine 1/3 cup of the Pace Picante
  Sauce, mayonnaise, tomato paste, relish and sugar; mix well. In large
  bowl combine crab meat, olives and 3/4 cup of the dressing; mix
  gently to avoid breaking up crab meat. Cut avacados in half
  lengthwise; peel and discard pits. Spoon additional Pace Picante
  Sauce onto 4 serving plates; top each with 2 avacado halves and fill
  indentations with crab meat mixture. Serve with remaining dressing
  and additional Pace Picante Sauce. Garnish with eggs, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Picante Salad Toss
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Torn romaine lettuce
      2 c  Tortilla chips
           -OR
      2 c  Corn chips
      2 md Tomatoes, cut into thin
           -wedges
    2/3 c  Ripe olive slices
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/3 c  Bottled Italian dressing
    1/2 c  Freshly shredded cheddar
           -OR
    1/2 c  Freshly shredded Monterey
           -Jack
      3    Crisply cooked bacon slices,
           -crumbled
 
  Combine lettuce, tortilla chips, tomatoes and olives in large bowl.
  Combine Pace Picante Sauce and dressing in screw-top jar or small
  bowl; shake to mix well. Pour over salad; toss lightly. Sprinkle with
  cheese and bacon. Serve immediately with additional Pace Picante
  Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grill-Side Garden Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 md Tomatoes, seeded and chopped
      1 md Zucchini, diced
      1 c  Frozen whole kernel corn,
           -thawed
      1 sm Ripe avacado, peeled, seeded
           -and coarsely chopped
    1/3 c  Thinly sliced green onions
           -with tops
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro or
           -parsley
      1 tb Lemon or lime juice
    3/4 ts Garlic salt
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
 
  Combine tomatoes, zucchini, corn, avacado and green onions in large
  bowl. Combine remaining ingredients; mix well. Pour over vegetable
  mixture; mix gently. Chill 3-4 hours, occasionally stirring gently.
  Stir gently and serve chilled or at room temperature with additional
  Pace Picante Sauce.
  
  Makes about 4 cups salad.
  
  NOTE: One cup cooked fresh corn kernels or one can (8.75 oz) whole
  kernel corn, drained, may be substituted for frozen corn.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: San Antonio Chicken Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Whole chicken breasts,
           -split, boned and skinned
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Dairy sour cream
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      1    Ripe avacado
      1 c  Sliced celery
           Bibb or leaf lettuce leaves
      4    Crisply cooked bacon slices,
           -crumbled
 
  Cut chicken into 1/2" cubes. Combine Pace Picante sauce, cumin and
  salt in 10" slikket. Cook chicken in Pace Picante Sauce mixture,
  stirring frequently, until cooked through - about 4 minutes. Transfer
  contents of skillet to mixing bowl; cover and chill thoroughly. To
  serve, combine chicken mixture, sour cream and mayonnaise; mix well.
  Peel, seed and coarsely chop avacado. Add avacado and celery to
  chicken mixture; mix lightly. Spoon onto lettuce-lined salad plates;
  sprinkle with bacon. Serve with additional Pace Picante Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Speedy-Spicy Italian Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/3 c  Bottled Italian Dressing
 
  Combine ingredients; mix well. Serve as a dressing for favorite
  salads or use as a marinade for fresh vegetables, bean salads or
  cooked shrimp.
  
  Makes about 3/4 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Picante Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/3 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/2 ts Ground cumin (opt)
 
  Combine ingredients; mix well. Chill. Toss with mixed green salads,
  coleslaw, potato salads or pasta salads or drizzle over sliced
  tomatoes.
  
  Makes 1-1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot 'n Spicy Salad Sizzler
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Bacon sliced, diced
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Sugar
 
  Cook bacon in skillet until crisp. Add remaining ingredients and
  bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Drizzle hot dressing over
  spinach salads or sliced tomatoes just before serving.
  
  Makes about 1/2 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Texas Island Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Mayonnaise
           -OR
      1 c  Light mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
      2 tb Sweet pickle relish
      1 tb Sugar
 
  Combine ingredients; mix well. Chill. Toss with green salads or
  seafood salads.
  
  Makes 1-3/4 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy-Sweet Far East Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/4 c  Orange marmalade
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Finely shredded fresh ginger
 
  Combine ingredients; mix well. Toss with mixed green salads.
  
  Makes about 2/3 cup dressing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hacienda Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/2 c  Ranch, creamy garlic, creamy
           -cucumber or creamy Italian
           -dressing
 
  Combine ingredients; mix well. Toss with mixed green salads, bean
  salads or pasta salads, or drizzle over sliced tomatoes, cucumbers or
  avacados.
  
  Makes about 1 cup dressing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Dressing and Marinade
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ts Soy sauce
      2 ts White wine vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
 
  Combine ingredients; mix well. Use as a marinade for crisp-tender
  cooked broccoli, mushrooms or favorite vegetable combinations, or
  toss with mixed green salads.
  
  Makes about 1/2 cup dressing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Classic Pace Con Queso Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
      8 oz Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
      1 lb Velveeta cheese food, cubed
 
  In a saucepan or microwave-safe bowl, combine Pace and Velveeta cheese
  food. Cook over low heat 10 minutes or microwave at HIGH 5 minutes -
  just until cheese is melted, stirring occasionally. Surround with
  chips or Christmas-colored red and green pepper rings or strips and,
  if you're so inclined, sprinkle the dip with chopped fresh cilantro
  for flavor and color contrast.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: San Antonio Seafood Cocktail
 Categories: Beverage, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
      8 oz Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
      8 oz Ketchup
      1    Squeeze of fresh lemon juice
 
  Combine Pace and ketchup, season with a squeeze of fresh lemon juice,
  transfer to a serving bowl and chill. To serve, place the bowl on a
  leaf lettuce-lined platter and surround with cooked and chilled
  shrimp, scallops or crab meat (real or imitation), or a combination
  of all three. Serve with cocktail picks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Cheesy Artichoke Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Artichoke hearts (14 oz)
    1/2 c  Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
    1/2 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise (light or reg)
      1 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
 
  Drain and chop artichoke hearts. Mix with Pace, mayonnaise and
  Parmesan cheese. Spread into a pie plate or ovenproof casserole. Bake
  at 350'F. for 20 minutes or until hot. For a festive touch, sprinkle
  with chopped red bell peppers and fresh cilantro. Place on a tray and
  surround with crackers, chips or vegetable dippers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Devilishly Delicious Eggs
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Hard-cooked eggs
    1/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
    1/3 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
      2    Crisply cooked bacon slices,
           -crumbled
      1 tb Mayonnaise
 
  Peel and cut eggs in half lengthwise. Mash the yolks and mix with
  Pace, bacon, and mayonnaise. Fill the egg whites with the yolk
  mixture and chill. Garnish with olive slices or small sprigs or
  parsley or cilantro and serve on a lettuce-lined tray.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three-Layer Deck-The-Halls Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Guacamole
      8 oz Sour cream
      8 oz Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
      8 oz Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
 
  In a shallow, clear glass bowl (straight sides are best), layer
  guacamole, sour cream and Pace. Place the bowl on a tray and surround
  it with chips or colorful vegetable dippers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Shrimp Kabobs
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Shrimp
      8 oz Pace Picante Sauce
      8 oz Bottled Italian dressing
 
  Cook peeled and deveined shrimp in boiling water just 'til they turn
  pink (watch closely - overcooking makes shrimp tough characters).
  Drain and place in a bowl. Pour Pace and Italian dressing over hot
  shrimp, mixing well. Cover and chill at least 2 or up to 24 hours,
  stirring occasionally. In another bowl, chill crisp-tender cooked
  broccoli florets and uncooked cherry tomatoes in equal parts of Pace
  Picante Sauce and Italian dressing, stirring occasionally. Just
  before serving, drain and arrange shrimp, broccoli florets and
  tomatoes on short, thin skewers or long cocktail picks. Arrange on a
  lettuce-lined platter to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy-Sweet Treats
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Pace Picante Sauce
      8 oz Honey
           Cubed chicken breast
           Cubed turkey breast
           Cooked shrimp
           Smoked sausage slices (1/4")
 
  Simmer Pace and honey in a saucepan until thickened. Add bite-size
  cubes of chicken or turkey breast (plain or smoked), cooked shrimp or
  smoked sausage slices. Heat through and serve in a chafing dish or a
  shallow dish with wooden picks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Ala Picante
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Baking potatoes, well
           -scrubbed
      1 md Onion, cut in half
           -lengthwise, cut crosswise
           -into thin slices
      3 tb Butter or margarine, melted
           Salt to taste
      1 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      1 c  Shredded cheddar cheese,
           -as desired
 
  These impressive and easy-to-prepare "pleated" potatoes are an ideal
  accompaniment to all manner of meats, fish and poultry. Thanks to Ruth
  Krening of Fort Morgan, Colorado for sharing her recipe.
  
  Cut potatoes crosswise into 1/8" to 1/4" slices, being careful not to
  cut all the way through so the potato remains intact. Place cut side
  up in a shallow baking dish. Slip onion slices in between cuts in
  potato, rounded side up. Brush or spoon butter evenly over potatoes;
  sprinkle lightly with salt. Bake in preheated oven at 425'F. 1 hour
  15 minutes or until fork tender. Remove from oven; spoon Pace Picante
  Sauce evenly over each potato. Continue baking 10 minutes. Sprinkle
  with cheese; return to oven just until cheese is melted. Serve with
  additional Pace Picante Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Picante Turkey Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground turkey
    1/2 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
      1 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      1 ts Oregano leaves, crushed
      4    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 md Zucchini, thinly sliced
      1 c  Thinly sliced mushrooms
      1 sm Green pepper, chopped
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 cn Tomato paste (6 oz)
    1/3 c  Sliced ripe olives
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
 
  Many thanks to Mary Jane Womack of Merced, California, for this
  delicious one-dish dinner. A real family pleaser, the ground turkey
  "crust" is filled with pizza-flavored vegetables and cheese.
  
  Combine turkey, crumbs, 1/4 cup of the Pace Picante Sauce, 1/4
  teaspoon of the oregano and 2 cloves garlic in medium bowl; mix well.
  Press onto bottom and sides of 9" pie plate. Bake at 350'F. 20
  minutes. While shell is baking, cook vegetables and remaining garlic
  in oil in 10" skillet 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. Stir in
  remaining 3/4 cup Pace Picante Sauce, tomato paste, olives and
  remaining 3/4 teaspoon oregano. Simmer 5 minutes or until thickened.
  Stir in Parmesan cheese; spoon into baked shell. Top with mozzarella
  cheese; return to oven 10 minutes or until cheese is melted. Serve
  with additional Pace Picante Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Micro-Quick Quesadilla
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Tortilla (6-8")
      3 tb Shredded cheddar
           -OR
      3 tb Shredded Monterey Jack
      3 tb Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
      3 tb Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa

MMMMM---------------------OPTIONAL TOPPINGS--------------------------
           Sliced ripe olives
           Green onion slices
           Chopped cilantro
           Guacamole (opt)
 
  Make the most of your microwave with this quick and easy snack. To
  cook several at one time, increase the cooking time a bit.
  
  Place tortilla on microwave-safe plate or paper plate. Microwave at
  HIGH 10 seconds or until just softened. Top with cheese, Pace Picante
  Sauce and, if desired, optional toppings. Fold in half and microwave
  on HIGH 30 seconds or until cheese melts. Let stand a minute or two
  before serving; cheese will be very hot. Top with guacamole, if
  desired, and serve with additional Pace Picante Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: San Antonio Chicken with Picante Black Bean Sauce
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Chicken breast halves,
           -boned and skinned
      2 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Garlic salt
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Black beans, canned, rinsed
           -and drained
      1 cn Whole kernel corn, drained
    2/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
    1/2 c  Diced red bell pepper
      2 tb Chopped cilantro
 
  Sprinkle both sides of chicken with 1 teaspoon of the cumin and the
  garlic salt. Heat oil in 12" skillet over medium-high heat. Add
  chicken; cook 3 minutes. In medium bowl, combine beans, corn, Pace
  Picante Sauce, red pepper and remaining 1 teaspoon cumin. Turn
  chicken; spoon bean mixture evenly over chicken. Reduce heat to
  medium; cook uncovered 6-7 minutes or until chicken is cooked
  through. Push bean mixture off chicken into skillet. Transfer chicken
  to serving platter, using a slotted spoon; keep warm. Cook bean
  mixture over high heat 2-3 minutes or until thickened, stirring
  frequently; spoon over chicken. Sprinkle with cilantro and serve with
  additional Pace Picante Sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dip Showmanship
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients
 
  To dress up dips in holiday style, serve them with festive flair.
  Leave your serving bowls on the shelf and try one of these fresh
  ideas.
  
  PARTY-PERFECT PEPPER POTS: Start with a large red, yellow or green
  pepper. Place the pepper on its side and cut a large slice from the
  top, forming an opening that's large enough to dip into easily.
  Remove the seeds and membranes and fill the pepper with your favorite
  dip.
  
  COLORFUL CABBAGE CUPS: Cut a thin slice off the stem end of a red or
  green cabbage so it will be upright. Using a small, sharp knife, cut
  a "bowl" in the top of the cabbage and tuck in a small glass bowl.
  Fill the bowl with your favorite. Save the cabbage you've removed for
  coleslaw, or toss it into a salad.
  
  BEAUTIFUL BREAD BOWL: Cut a thick slice off the top of a small round
  loaf of bread and hollow out the bread, leaving a 1/2-1" thick shell.
  Fill the bread bowl with your favorite dip. Cut the top slice and the
  bread you've removed from the inside into bite-size cubes to use as
  dippers. Works great with classic Pace Con Queso Dip.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Two-Cheese Picante Smoked Turkey Dip
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Cream cheese (8 oz)
    3/4 c  Pace Picante Sauce
           -OR
    3/4 c  Pace Thick & Chunky Salsa
    3/4 c  Smoked turkey, very finely
           -chopped (from the deli)
    1/2 c  Sliced green onions w/tops
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Keep the ingredients for this warm, fast and festive dip on hand for
  speedy snacks and impromptu parties. To prepare combine cream cheese
  and Pace in a small saucepan; stir over low heat until cheese is
  melted. Add turkey, green onions and Parmesan cheese. Heat through,
  stirring frequently. Transfer to a serving dish and sprinkle with
  additional green onion slices. Serve warm with vegetable dippers,
  thin breadsticks or unsalted chips.
  
  Makes 2-1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Light-Style Fiesta Shrimp Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10 oz Frozen cooked shrimp,
           -thawed, rinsed and drained
      1 pk Light cream cheese, softened
           -(8 oz)
    1/4 c  Light mayonnaise
    1/3 c  Thinly sliced green onions
           -with tops
    2/3 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 ts Horseradish, as desired
    3/4 ts Ground cumin
 
  Finely chop shrimp, reserving a few whole shrimp for garnish. Combine
  cream cheese and mayonnaise; mix well. Reserve 1 tablespoon green
  onions for garnish. Stir remaining green onions and remaining
  ingredients into cream cheese mixture; mix well. Spoon into serving
  bowl. Chill at least 2 hours or up to 24 hours. Stir; garnish with
  reserved shrimp and green onions. Serve with assorted vegetable
  dippers.
  
  Makes about 2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm  Muffins/biscuits
 Categories: Muffin
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Recipes for Sandwich Maker
           -VIVIAN THIELE   (NRHF19C)
           -BASIC BISCUIT BAKING MIX
      9 c  Flour; sifted
    1/3 c  Baking Powder; double
           -acting
      1 c  Nonfat Dry Milk plus
      2 tb Nonfat Dry Milk
      4 ts Salt
  1 3/4 c  Vegetable Shortening
 
  Stir baking powder, dry milk and salt into the sifted flour.  Sift
  all dry ingredients together until well mixed. Cut or mix fat into
  flour mixture utnil all particles are thouroughly coated and mixture
  esembels coarse cornmeal. Sotre mix in a jar or can with a tight lid.
  It can be measured into 2 cup amounts and put in plastic bags or
  jarsd where it will be ready for use. It may be stored at room
  temperature for 6 weeks. Vary the liquids: dry milk solids are
  already in the mix so more milk is not need. You can use fruit juice,
  water or meat broth for the liquid called for in a recipe.
  
  The recipes in this Pick-A-pocket book were writted for commercial
  packaged baking mix which has no milk so it is the liquid called for
  in recipes. This mix is a perfect substitte. Just use water where it
  calls for milk. (written out of my cookbook)
  
  Basic biscuits: 2 cups mix, 1/2 cup water. Add water to mix and stir
  20-25 times. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead 10-15
  times. Roll to 1/2" thickness and cut with a knife to pockets shapes
  or use biscuit cutter to make circles. Place in preheated sm and bake
  5 minutes or until golden brown.
  
  Sausage biscuits: 2 1/4 cups packaged biscuit baking mix(milk),   8
  links sausages cooked.
  
  Prepare biscuits according to package directions for rolled biscuits.
  Knead dough, roll out on floured surface and cut 8 circles with a
  biscuit cutter. Lay one sausage in center of each  and wrap dough
  around, pinching to seal. Sausages will stick out the ends. Bake 5
  minutes or until golden brown.
  
  Jelly biscuits: flatten unbaked biscuits with heel of your hand.
  Place 1/2 teaspoon jelly or preserves in center. Fold over and pinch
  edges together to seal.  Bake 5 minutes or till golden.
  
  Pimento cheese bread: 2 cups packaged biscuit baking mix, 1 egg,
  beaten; 1/2 cup grated cheddar; 2/3 cup milk; 2 tablespoon drained
  dice pimento (optional) Mix all ingredients together until soft dough
  forms. Spoon into pockets.  Bake 10 minutes or until golden.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm Cake Pockets
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -PAMELA BONDURANT CPPP71B
      4 sl Angel Food Cake; 1" thick
           Margarine or Butter;
           -softened
           ********FILLINGS********
      2 tb Cherry preserves;   OR
      2 tb Peach Preserves;    OR
    1/4 c  Coconut; mixed with
      1 tb Margarine;          OR
     16    Miniature Marshmallows;
           -PLUS
     16    Chocolate Chips;    OR
      1 lg Marshmallow;      PLUS
      1 ts Sugar;            PLUS
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
  Heat sandwich maker as directed.  Brush margarine on top and bottom
  cooking surfaces of sandwich maker.   Assemble cake sandwiches. For
  the chocolate chips and marshmallows, spread margarine on cake, then
  sprinkle with marshmallows and chocolate chips.  For the large
  marshmallow with sugar and cinnamon, cut large marshmallow in half;
  dip into melted margarine. Place 1 half on each of two slices cake.
  Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon.
  
  Top with remaining cake. Place cake sandwiches side by side on bottom
  cooking surface.  Close lid; latch.  Cook 2 to 3 minutes or until
  golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm Chicken Fajitas
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -VIVIAN THIELE NRHF19C
      1 lb Chicken Breast; boneless
           -and skinless
           *******Sauce*******
    1/2 c  Soy Sauce
      1 c  Orange Juice
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      1 ts Sugar
      2    Cloves Garlic; crushed
    1/2 ts Ginger
           ********************
      1 tb Oil
      1 md Onion; sliced
      1    Green pepper; sliced
      1    Red Pepper; sliced
     12    Flour Tortillas (6-8 inch)
 
  Cut chicken breasts into strips 1/4" thick. Combine all sauce
  ingredients and pour over chicken strips. Cover and refrigerate
  overnight. Drain meat well and stir fry in oil along with onion and
  peppers until all pink color is gone from chicken pieces and
  vegetables are crisp-tender. Preheat sandwich maker . Trim sides from
  tortillas to form squares 5 X 5 or 6 X 6 inches.  Brush outside of
  each with oil. Lay 4 tortillas on pocket grid oiled side down. Spoon
  chicken mixture into the triangle shaped pockets. Top with tortillas,
  oiled side up. Close lid and cook 3 minutes or until tortillas are
  heated through and sealed. Repeat with remaining ingredients. Makes
  12 pockets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm Whacky Cakes
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -VIVIAN THIELE NRHF19C
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Vinegar
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Cocoa
      5 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  -Cold Water
      1 ts Soda
 
  Beat all ingredients together. Spoon into preheated pockets until each
  level is full. Close and bake about 5 minutes or until cakes spring
  back when touched.  Lift out and bake second batch. makes 12-16 cakes
  
  Strawberry shortcake: 2 1/3 cups packaged baking mix; 3 tablespoons
  sugar; 1/2 cup milk; 3 tablespoon margarine melted.  Mix all
  ingredients together in bowl until a soft dough form. Divide dough
  evenly into ungreased pockets. Using a rubber spatula, quickly spread
  it into the corners. Close and bake five minutes or until golden
  brown. To serve: Slice hot shortcakes open with sharp knife. Lay just
  half in bottom of dessert dish and cover with sliced and sweetened
  strawberries. Top with other half a small spoon of berries and
  whipped cream. recipes makes 8 pockets.
  
  Pineapple inside out cakes: 4 slices canned pineapple (drained
  crushed may be substituted); 3 tablespoons brown sugar; 3 tablespoons
  melted butter; 8 slices white bread buttered one side. Drain
  pineapple slices and cut each in half. Combine butter and brown sugar
  in a small bowl. Lay 4 bread slices on grid, buttered side down.
  Spoon brown sugar mixture onto bread. Lay pineapple slices over
  pockets' indentations. Top with 4 remaining bread slices, buttered
  side up. Close lid and cook 5 minutes or until bread is golden brown.
  Cool slightly before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm Stir Fry Veg Pockets
 Categories: Asian, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -VIVIAN THIELE
     16 oz Frozen Stir Fry Vegetables
           -OR-
      4 c  Fresh Vegetables for
           -Stir Fry
           *****A COMBINATION OF******
           ***ANY OF THE FOLLOWING****
           Broccoli
           Carrots
           Water Chestnuts
           Green or Red Peppers
           Celery
           Mushrooms
           Pea Pods
      2 tb Oil
      4    Pita Pockets; whole
           -wheat preferably
           *********SAUCE************
    1/2 c  Orange Juice
      2 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Honey
    1/4 ts Garlic Powder
      1 tb Vinegar
    1/4 ts Ground Ginger
      1 tb Soy Sauce
 
  Prepare sauce by combining all ingredients in measuring cup. set
  aside. Heat large skillet or wok on medium high. Add oil.  When oil's
  hot, add vegetables and cook and stir until vegetables are tender but
  still crisp. Do not over cook. Add sauce and cook, stirring
  constantly until thick. Trim sides of pita bread and gently separate
  each into 2 layers. Brush outside of each half with oil if desired.
  Place 4 halves on grid oiled side down. Spoon vegetables on pita over
  each pocket. Top with remaining bread. Close lid and cook 3-5 minutes
  or until heated through and sealed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm Parmesan Break-Away Rolls
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn Refrigerated Biscuits
      2 tb Butter
    1/8 ts Garlic Salt
    1/3 c  Parmesan Cheese
 
  Preheat sandwich maker.  Cut each of the 10 biscuits into 4 pieces.
  Combine melted butter and garlic salt in one small dish.  Measure
  cheese into a second dish.  Dip each piece into melted butter and
  roll in Parmesan cheese.  Set aside until all are ready.  Place 5
  tiny pieces in each of the eight pockets.  Close lid and bake 5
  minutes or until biscuits are golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm Peaches and Cream Turnovers
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Pie Crust for 9" pies
      1    Egg
      2 pk Cream Cheese; room temp.,
           -3 oz ea.
    1/2 c  Powdered Sugar
     20 oz Peach Pie Filling
 
  Preheat sandwich maker.  Prepare pie crust and roll 2 crust about 11"
  by 11" folding each for easy handling.  In blender or food processor
  combine egg, cream cheese and powdered sugar until smooth. Open lid
  and carefully lay first square of pie dough over entire surface. With
  back of spoon, push dough down into pockets and spoon pie filling
  into pockets. Top with the cream mixture dividing between 8 pockets.
  Lay second square of dough over filling allowing excess to hang over
  sides. Lower the top and bake about 10 minutes or until dough is
  golden brown. Makes 8 turnovers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm Pocket Spreads
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -VIVIAN THIELE NRHF19C
 
  The following recipes are additional spreads that can be used in
  place of butter on the outside of bread/dough when making pockets.
  
  Mayo Spread: 1/4 cup real Mayonnaise; 1/4 tsp. onion powder; 1/4 tsp.
  celery salt.  Stir to combine.  Enough for 8 slices of bread. Mayo
  spread will enhance the flavor of most foods except sweets.
  Especially good on sandwiches with eggs, cheese, ham and seafood or
  vegetable pockets.
  
  Curried Mayonnaise: 1/4 cup mayonnaise; 1 tsp. mild Indian curry
  powder. Stir to combine - enough for 8 slices of bread.  Curry is a
  nice flavor accompaniment with beef, chicken, lamb, shrimp and
  vegetables.
  
  Maple butter: 1/4 soft butter or margarine; 1/2 tsp. maple flavoring.
  Stir to combine. Enough for 8 slices. Use maple butter for pockets.
  Use with pork, ham or sweets.
  
  Vanilla butter: 1/4 soft butter or margarine; 1/2 tsp vanilla
  extract. Stir to combine - enough for 8 slices of bread.  Vanilla
  butter enhances flavor and has an enticing aroma while cooking.
  
  Almond Butter: 1/4 soft butter or margarine; 1/4 tsp almond extract.
  Stir to combine - enough for 8 slices bread.  Use with fruit pie
  filling or other sweets.
  
  Herbed butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; 1/4 tsp herbs
  (combine basil, thyme, rosemary and tarragon).  Stir to combine.
  Spread on one side of 8 bread slices or other bread products used for
  pockets. This taste especially good with meats, cheese and vegetables.
  
  Garlic butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; 1 clove garlic,
  crushed. Stir to combine.  Enough for 8 bread slices.  Use with any
  eat or vegetable filling.
  
  Honey butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; 1 tblsp. honey. Stir
  to combine.  This is enough to spread 8 slices of bread. Because the
  honey promotes browning, use this on pockets which only have to brown
  and heat through.  If used on egg sandwiches,etc... the bread may
  over brown before the egg finishes cooking.
  
  Lemon butter: 1/4 cup soft butter or margarine; finely grated rind of
  1 lemon (about 1/2tsp.).  Stir to combine.  This is enough to spread
  8 slices of bread.  The fresh lemon brings out the flavor of fruit
  filling and seafood fillings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Taffy Apple Dip
 Categories: Appetizer, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------LISA CRAWLEY  TSPN00B------------------------
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/8 ts Powder sugar
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Process cream cheese with sugars til smooth.  Add vanilla and mix in
  well. Spread on flat glass dish to dip apples slices in. From: Mary
  Mowrer Note: Made for bridge---success! Used Winesaps.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Challah
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -New Basic's CB
      2 c  Milk
      8 tb (1 stick) sweet butter
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      2    Packages active dry yeast
      4    Eggs, at room temperature
      2 ts Salt
      6 c  Unbleached, all-purpose
           -flour
    1/3 c  Cornmeal
      1 tb Cold water
           Poppy seeds
 
  This splendid loaf makes wonderful eating straight from the oven and
  spread with butter and honey. We love French toast made with it. If
  any of this bread manages to last long enough to become stale, it
  makes excellent bread crumbs. 2 large loaves
  
  1. Bring milk, 6 tablespoons of the butter, and the sugar to a boil
  together in a medium-size saucepan. Remove from heat, pour into a
  large mixing bowl, and let cool to lukewarm (1050 to 1150F.)
  
  2. Stir yeast into the milk mixture and let stand for 10 minutes.
  
  3. Beat 3 of the eggs well in a small bowl, and stir them and the
  salt into the milk-and-yeast mixture.
  
  4. Stir in 5 cups of the flour, 1 cup at a time, until you achieve a
  sticky dough. Flour a work surface lightly and turn the dough out
  onto it. Wash and dry the bowl.
  
  5. Sprinkle additional flour over the dough and begin kneading,
  adding more flour as necessary, until you have a smooth elastic dough.
  
  6. Smear the reserved 2 tablespoons butter around the inside of the
  bowl and add the ball of dough into the bowl, turning to coat it
  lightly with butter. Cover bowl with a towel and set aside to let
  dough rise until tripled in bulk, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  7. Turn dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and cut into
  halves. Cut each half into 3 pieces. Roll the pieces out into long
  "snakes" about 18 inches long. Braid three of the snakes together
  into a loaf and tuck the ends under. Repeat with remaining snakes.
  
  8. Sprinkle a large baking sheet with the cornmeal, and transfer the
  loaves to the sheet. Leave room between the loaves for them to rise.
  Cover loaves with the towel and let rise until nearly doubled, about
  1 hour.
  
  9. Preheat oven to 3500F.
  
  10. Beat the remaining egg and 1 tablespoon cold water together well
  in a small bowl. Brush this egg wash evenly over the loaves. Sprinkle
  immediately with poppy seeds to taste.
  
  11. Set baking sheet on the middle rack of the oven. Bake for 30 to 35
  minutes, or until loaves are golden brown and sound hollow when their
  bottoms are thumped. Cool completely on racks before wrapping.
  
  Challah represents the ceremonial show bread that was placed on the
  table by the priest in the ancient Temple of Jerusalem. There were
  twelve such breads, each representing one of the Israelite tribes.
  Challah was always braided to invest it with special beauty. Each
  family traditionally places two Challahs on the table for the Sabbath
  meal, representing double portions of manna from heaven that fell on
  the sixth day so that the Israelites would not have to collect manna
  on the seventh day, the day of rest.
  
  Source: New Basic's Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Challah French Toast
 Categories: Breakfast, Bread, Jewish, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -MICHAEL HATALA   (RJHP21A)
      6    Eggs
    1/2 c  Heavy cream, half-and-half
           -or milk
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 tb To 6 T clarified butter
      8 sl Challah, cut 1-inch thick
 
  Beat the eggs together with cream, half-and-half, or milk. Beat in
  cinnamon and salt. Melt the butter in a large frying pan. Dip the
  challah slices, one at a time, into the egg mixture, making sure that
  each slice is well coated. The challah should absorb a little of the
  egg mixture but not enough to get soggy. Fry each battered challah
  slice for 2-3 minutes on each side until they are golden brown. Don't
  fry too fast or the inside will be wet and gooey. Serve with your
  favorite jam, maple syrup, honey, cinnamon, sugar, or plain. NOTE:
  Heavy cream really is the best liquid to use in this recipe.
  
  SOURCE: MAMA LEAH'S JEWISH KITCHEN
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine
      4    Chicken breasts, cooked and
           -boned
      1 pk Stuffing mix (6 oz.0
      1 cn Cream of Mushroom soup
      1 cn Cream of Chicken soup
      2 c  Chicken broth
 
  Melt Margarine and combime with stuffing mix and mushroom soup that
  has been diluted with 1 cup of the chicken both.  Place 1/2 of
  mixture in 9 X 13 baking dish.  Layer chicken.  Pour mushroom soup
  that has been diluted with other cup of chicken broth over top. Bake
  at 350 for about 1 hr.
  
  Modifications:  Becky Hurt Coleman uses 8 oz Pepperidge Farm corn
  bread or
                   Herb Seasoning as a stuffing mix.
  
                  Lida Hendrickson mixes a can of evaporated milk with
  her
                   soup and Stove Top stuffing mixed with chicken broth.
  
  The Bumgarner Recipes submitted by Lynda Groat
  
  posted on COOKING echo by Bud Cloyd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu-Chili
 Categories: Asian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Tofu
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb A-1 sauce
      2 tb Oil
      1 ts Garlic, minced
      1    Onion, chopped
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
  1 1/2 ts Cumin, ground
      1 cn Tomatoes, chopped (1 lb)
      1 cn Tomato sauce (15 oz)
      2 cn Kidney beans, red (1 lb)
 
  Thaw tofu quickly by placing bag in boiling water. Rinse with cool
  water. (This is because tofu that has been frozen and thawed, can be
  easily crumbled.) Take tofu from bag and squeeze to remove excess
  water. Shred tofu into small pieces with fork. In a bowl combine
  tofu, soy sauce, and A-1 sauce. Meanwhile, medium heat a large
  skillet or a heavy cook-pot. Add oil saute' garlic and onion; add
  chili powder, add cumin. Add tofu mixture to seasoned onions in the
  pot, and mix well. Add chopped tomatoes with juice, tomato sauce, and
  two cans of beans. Cook 15-20 minutes.
  
   From: The Best Little Tofu Cookbook from Marjon by Marcia Miller
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingerbread Cream Pie -- George Washington
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/3 c  Butter
      1 c  Molasses
      1    Egg, unbeaten
  1 1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Soda
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ginger
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Cloves
    1/2 c  Milk
           FILLING
      1 tb Gelatine
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Sugar
        ds Salt
      2 tb Corn starch
      1    Egg, well beaten
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Finely chopped apricots
 
  CAKE: Cream together butter and molasses; add unbeaten egg; blend
  well; add sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk; beat until
  smooth.
  
  Pour batter into sprayed 9" round cake pan or springform.  Bake at
  350F for 40 minutes.  When cool, remove from pan; split in half.  Put
  together with the following filling:
  
  FILLING: Soak gelatine in cold water for 10 min. Heat milk to
  scalding in top of double boiler (or med. saucepan set into lge.
  saucepan). Stir in mixture of sugar, salt & corn starch; cook in top
  of double boiler until mixture begins to thicken. Add vanilla and
  apricot to beaten egg, then add to the mixture in the double boiler.
  When slightly thickened, stir in gelatine until dissolved. Chill
  until mixture jells (around 1 1/4 hour). When filling is firm enough,
  spread between layers of gingerbread. If desired, top with whipped
  topping. Serves 6-8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dale-Burgers
 Categories: Sandwich, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
  2 lbs. ground beef 1 tsp. cayenne pepper 2 tsp. garlic powder 2 eggs
  1/2 cup bar-b-q sauce (any) 2 tsp. lowry seasoned salt 2 tbsp.
  wochestershire sauce 8
    Hand mix all of the above in large bowl. Make patties and grill! *
  Origin: Rogue's Gallery BBS  Santee, CA  (619) 449-9265 (1:202/327)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hoppin' John
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/8 lb Streaky bacon or salt pork
    1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
    1/3 c  Diced Carrots
    2/3 c  Finely chopped
           Onion
     10 oz Black eyed peas
  2 3/4 c  Water, approx.
      1    Garlic clove
      6    Sprigs of fresh
           Thyme
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Dried hot red pepper flakes
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 lb Sharp cheddar cheese
           Salt to taste
      1 c  Rice
      1    Ripe tomato
      1 c  Finely chopped
           Scallions
 
  1.  Put the bacon in a saucepan and cook, stirring often, until
  crisp. Add the carrots, celery, and cook, stirring, about one minute.
  2. Add the peas, garlic, about 1 1/4 quarts of water, or to barely
  cover, thyme, bay leaf, salt, and red pepper flakes.  Bring to the
  boil and let simmer, uncovered, 30-40 minutes, until tender but not
  mushy. Remove from heat. 3. Put the rice in a saucepan and add 1 1/2
  cups water and salt to taste. Bring to the boil and let set 17
  minutes.  Stir in the butter. 4. Cut the unpeeled tomato into 1/4
  inch cubes; there should be about one cup. 5. Arrange the hot rice in
  the center of a platter.  Spoon the hot pea mixture, including
  liquid, over the rice.  Scatter the cheese over the peas. Place
  tomato cubes around the rice.  Scatter the scallions over the
  tomatoes. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Down-Home Fried Rice
 Categories: Rice, Asian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 tb Canola oil
  1 1/2 c  Onion *
      4 x  Ribs celery **
      2 x  Cloves garlic, finely minced
      1 tb Ginger, finely minced
           Small red bell pepper ***
      4 c  Long-grain rice, cooked
    1/4 c  No-sodium beef broth ****
    1/8 lb Cured ham %
      1 lb Shrimp %%
    1/4 lb Snow pea %%%
      2 x  Eggs
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Scallions %%%%
 
  * Cut in half and slivered ** Washed and sliced diagonally 1/4" thick
  *** Cored, seeded, and cut in 1/4" dice **** Defatted % Thinly sliced
  and then shredded %% Peeled, deveined, cooked, and cut in half
  crosswise %%% Lightly blanched and cut lengthwise into thin strips
  %%%% Cleaned and thinly sliced
  
  In large, heavy casserole over medium-low heat, heat canola oil. Add
  onions, celery, garlic, and ginger. Cook, stirring, 5 mins. Add diced
  red pepper; cook 3 mins. Add rice, broth, and ham; cook 2 mins,
  stirring ingredients to mix. Add shrimp and snow peas. Cook 1 min
  longer. Remove from heat.
  
  In bowl, beat eggs and soy sauce together. Push rice to sides of
  casserole, making well in center. Return casserole to medium-low
  heat; pour egg mixture into well. Stir with fork for about 1 min,
  until eggs are just set. Gently fold into rice. Heat through and stir
  in scallions. Serve immediately.
  
  PER SERVING: calories 288, fat 6g, cholesterol 145mg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Shrimp Fried Rice
 Categories: Asian, Seafood, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Medium shrimp
      1 tb Unsalted butter
      2 x  Raw eggs
      2 tb Milk
      2 tb Sesame oil
      1 c  Finely chopped Spanish onion
    1/4 ts Fresh grated ginger *
    1/3 c  Sweet sherry (Oloroso)
      2 c  Bean sprouts
      2 c  Cooked long grained rice
    1/3 c  Light soy sauce **
      6 x  Green onions, chopped
           Vegetable cooking spray
           Salt and pepper, to taste
 
  * or ground ginger ** preferably Kikkoman
  
  Preparation time: 40 mins. Cooking Time: 15 to 20 mins
  
  Rinse, peel and devein shrimp. Coat a 10 to 12" non-stick skillet with
  cooking spray and melt butter over high heat. Make an omelet by
  adding the eggs to the milk and salt and pepper to taste and whisking
  until fluffy. Pour egg mixture into hot skillet and spread evenly.
  Cook until puffy and set. Remove omelet with spatula, place in a
  plate and chop with a knife and fork. Set aside.
  
  Reheat skillet; add sesame oil. Cook Spanish onions on medium heat
  until slightly transparent, about 3 mins. Add shrimp, cook until they
  turn plump and pink, about 3 mins. Then add ginger, sherry, bean
  sprouts and omelet pieces. Cook on low heat and stir frequently so
  that sprouts are thoroughly covered with the wine and ginger. Add the
  rice and thoroughly stir mixture.
  
  Add soy sauce and continue to toss mixture so that the soy sauce
  coats all the rice. Add green onions and continue to mix thoroughly.
  Serve immediately.
  
  Per serving: 393 calories, 12 grams fat, 384 milligrams cholesterol,
  737 milligrams sodium
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  Tampa's Own Fish Chowder*
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Fish fillets (snapper or
           Grouper)
    1/2 c  Boned and diced cooked
           Chicken (skinles)
      2    Slices of bacon
      1 c  Diced potatos
    2/3 c  Chopped onion
      1 cl Garlic minced
    1/4 c  Diced carrots
      1 tb Dice celery
      1 ea Lemon- juice of
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/8 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Ground dill
      2 c  Half & Half
      2 c  HOT water(not quite boiling)
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
 
     Fry bacon & remove from pan. Add onions & garlic to drippings.
  Saute'
     until tender but not browned. Add the water, potatos, carrots,
  celery, and
     paprika. Cook until the potatos are almsot done. Cut fish into 1
  inch
     squares. Add seasonings and fish at the same time. Cook until fish
  becomes
     flaky. Pour in the Half & Half and stir well.
     NOTE*....you may add 2 Tblspns of a dry white wine to this as well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Beans and Rice I
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Rice, Vegetable, Main dish, Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Red Beans
      1 lb Ham Seasoning Meat with Fat
      3 qt Water
      2 c  Onions; Chopped
    1/2 c  Green Onion; Chopped
    1/4 c  Parsley; Chopped
      6    Toes Garlic; Chopped
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
 
   NOTE: Tony's Seasoning may be added for extra taste.
   Place washed beans, ham, onions and water in a 4 quart microwave-safe
  casserole. Cover; cook on HIGH in microwave for 2 and 1/2 hours,
  stirring occasionally and adding more water. Stir in green onions,
  parsley, garlic and seasonings. Cook on MEDIUM for 1 hour. Serve over
  Rice.
   NOTE: To save cooking time, set the beans in a pot of water
  overnight. Then add all ingredients and cook about half as long. Use
  your judgement on cooking time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Beans and Rice Ii
 Categories: Rice, Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Red kidney beans
      1 lb Salt pork
      2    Cloves garlic
      1 ts Italian seasoning
      1    Bell pepper
      1    Chopped onion
      1    Stalk celery
      1    Whole hot pepper
 
   Boil pork 5 mins to get rid of salt. Put pork in second water (hot)
  and add beans, water, should be one-half inch above beans. Add
  immediately, one bell pepper, one chopped onion, celery, garlic,
  Italian seasoning and whole hot pepper. Cook slowly two to three
  hours, until gravy is thick and beans tender -- just before dishing
  out add a pinch of italian seasoning again. Salt to taste and serve
  with rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Home-Made Hot Wings
 Categories: Side dish, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Chicken Wings (12 to 15)
      6 tb (3oz) Texas Pete Hot Sauce *
      4 tb (2oz) Butter or Margarine
 
   * For REAL spicy wing, use Tabasco Sauce Cut wings at all joints.
  Discard wing tips. Place the 24 to 30 pieces in absorbent paper
  towels to dry.
   DEEP FRYER: 375 8-10 mins or until crispy.
   OVEN: Spread wings in single layer on cookie sheet. Bake at 450 for
  25 mins.
   Melt butter/margarine in sauce pan. Add hot sauce and stir well.
  Place cooked wings in covered bowl. Pour sauce over wings. Place lid
  on bowl and bowl. Place on plate covered with paper towel. Serve
  immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Taco Chicken Wings
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Chicken Wings
      1    Env Taco Seasoning Mix *
      2 c  Dry Bread Crumbs
      1    Jar (16oz) Taco Sauce **
 
   * 1-1/4 oz Old El Paso ** Old El Paso Remove wing tips and discard.
  Cut wings at joint. Combine bread crumbs and taco seasoning mix; mix
  well. Preheat oven to 375. Dip each chicken piece in taco sauce then
  roll in bread crumbs; coat thoroughly. Place on lightly greased
  baking sheet. Bake for 30-35 mins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Barbecue Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Side dish, Bbq/grill, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Chicken wings

MMMMM-----------------------BAR-B-Q SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Ketchup
    1/2 c  Water
      2 ts Dijon mustard
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Louisiana hot sauce
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      2    Garlic cloves - minced
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice
      1 tb Brown sugar
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Cumin
      1 ts Black pepper
           Oil for deep frying
 
   This BBQ sauce is mild.  If you like hotter wings, add more
  Louisiana hot sauce.
   In a large heavy saucepan, mix together BBQ sauce ingredients.
  Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer for 15 mins. In a frypan
  or wok, heat oil to 375 F (190 C).  Deep fry a few wings at a time,
  until they are cooked through, about 10-15 mins. Drain fried wings on
  absorbent towel. when all the wings are cooked, place them in the
  simmering BBQ sauce. Stir to coat and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot and Spicy Chicken Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8oz)
      2 tb Red pepper flakes
      2 tb Hot sauce
      1 tb Garlic powder
      1 tb Onion powder
      2 tb Jalapeno peppers, chopped
      1 lb Chicken wings
 
   Combine tomato sauce, red pepper flakes, hot sauce, garlic powder,
  onion powder and Jalapeno peppers in a medium size bowl. Spray a
  baking sheet with no-stick cooking spray. Place chicken wings on
  baking dish. Brush sauce over wings. Bake at 350 for 20 mins. Turn
  over and brush with sauce and bake for another 10 mins. Serve with
  blue cheese dressing and celery if desired. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti and Meat Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Beef, Pasta, Sausage
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground Beef
    1/2 c  Chicken Broth
    1/2 lb Bulk Spicy Italian Sausage
      1 pk (8oz) Chopped Fresh Mushroom
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      1 ts Italian Seasoning
           Clove Garlic; minced
      1 ts Seasoned Salt
      1 cn (28oz) Tomatoes *
           Bay Leaf
      1 cn (6oz) Tomato Paste
      1 lb Uncooked Spaghetti
 
   * Cut up and UN-drained In dutch oven, cook beef, sausage, onion and
  garlic. Drain. Ann next 7 ingredients. Simmer 30 mins. Prepare
  spaghetti according to package instructions. Drain. Serve sauce over
  hot spaghetti with grated Parmesan cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Biscotti Di Prato ( Tuscan Almond Biscotti)
 Categories: Italian, Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  3 3/4 c  Flour; all purpose,
           -unbleached
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts -Salt
      4    Eggs;large, whole
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Almond extract
  1 2/3 c  Almonds, whole, blanched
           -toasted lightly & chopped
           -coarse

MMMMM--------------------------EGG WASH-------------------------------
      1    Egg, large; &
      1 ts -Water
 
   In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment
  blend the flour, the sugar, the baking powder, and the salt until the
  mixture is combined well. In a small bowl, whisk together the whole
  eggs, the yolks, the vanilla and the almond extract, add the mixture
  to the flour mixture, beating until a dough is formed, and stir in
  the almonds.
    Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface, knead it several
  times, and divide it into fourths. Working on 2 large buttered and
  floured baking sheets, with floured hands form each piece of dough
  into a flattish log 11 inches long and 2 inches wide, arrange the
  logs at least 3 inches apart on the sheets, and brush them with the
  egg wash. Bake the logs in a preheated 350F oven for 35 minutes and
  let them cool on the baking sheets on racks for 10 minutes. On a
  cutting board, cut the logs crosswise on the diagonal into 3/4" inch
  slices, arrange them the biscotti, cut sides down, on the baking
  sheets, and bake them in the 350F oven for 5 to 7 minutes on each
  side, or until they are pale golden. Transfer the biscotti to racks
  to cool and store them in airtight containers. MAKES ABOUT 56 BISCOTTI
  
  Source: Gourmet magazine, December 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Biscotti Del Laggaccio (Aniseed Biscotti)
 Categories: Italian, Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SPONGE----------------------------
      1 pk Active dry yeast; 2 1/2 tsp
    1/2 c  -Warm water
    3/4 c  Flour;all purpose,
           Unbleached

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE DOUGH----------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  -Water &
      2 tb -Water
    1/4 c  Butter; unsalted, 1/2 stick
           -cut into bits & softened
  2 1/2 c  Flour;all purpose,
           Unbleached
      1 tb Aniseed
    1/2 ts -Salt
 
  "Did Columbus and his crews sail to the new world eating these
  traditional Ligurian biscotti? It's entirely possible, although
  theirs would have been cooked much longer to drive off all the
  moisture, allowing them to keep for an entire ocean crossing. Though
  these biscotti are made with an enriched bread dough instead of the
  traditional cookie dough and have a somewhat softer texture, they
  keep well when stored in an airtight container."
  
  Make the sponge: In the bowl of an electric mixer proof the yeast in
  the water for 5 minutes, or until the mixture is foamy. Whisk in the
  flour and let the sponge stand, covered with plastic wrap, for 30
  minutes or until it is foamy.
   To the sponge, add the sugar, the water and the butter and stir the
  mixture until it is combined well. Add the flour, the aniseed, and
  the salt and with the electric mixer fitted with the dough hook knead
  the dough for 3 minutes, or until it is smooth but still sticky.
  Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl, turning it to coat it
  with the oil, and let it rise, covered tightly with plastic wrap, for
  1 1/2 hours, or until it is double in bulk.
    Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface, halve it, and
  with floured hands form each piece of dough into a flattish log 15
  inches long and 2 inches wide. Transfer the logs to a buttered and
  floured baking sheet and let them rise, covered with a kitchen towel,
  for 2 hours, or until they are double in bulk.
    Bake the logs in the middle of a preheated 350F oven for 30
  minutes, or until they are golden brown, and let them cool on the
  baking sheet on a rack for 10 minutes. On a cutting board cut the
  logs crosswise on the diagonal into 1 inch thick slices, arrange the
  biscotti, cut sides down, on the baking sheet and bake them in the
  350F oven for 10 minutes on each side, or until they are pale golden.
  Transfer the biscotti to racks to cool and store them in airtight
  containers. MAKES:ABOUT 30 BISCOTTI
  
  SOURCE: Gourmet magazine, December 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jalepeno Cheese Crackers
 Categories: Cracker, Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 oz Cheddar cheese; 1/2" cubes
           -about 1/2 cup
      1 tb Jalapeno pepper
           -seeded & minced or to taste
    1/3 c  Butter; cold,
           -cut in 1/2" cubes
    3/4 c  Flour; all purpose
    1/4 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Mustard; dry
      4 tb -Water; ice
 
  Preheat oven to 400F. Process cheese and jalapeno in food processor
  till chopped in 1/4" pieces. Add butter, pulse on and off till size
  of small peas. Stir flour with cornmeal, salt, chili powder and
  mustard in small bowl till blended. Add to mixture in processor,
  pulse on and off just till blended. Sprinkle water evenly over
  mixture in processor. Pulse on and off just till dough begins to form
  into a ball. Shape dough into 8" disk. Wrap in plastic wrap;
  refrigerate till firm enough to roll, about 30 minutes. On floured
  surface, roll dough to 1/4" thickness. Cut in 2" rounds with cookie
  cutter or wine glass. Transfer to ungreased baking sheet. Prick each
  cracker once with fork. Bake in preheated oven for 10 to 12 minutes
  or till crisp. Transfer  to rack to cool. Store in airtight
  container. Makes 50 crackers. Source: The Toronto Star
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Upside-Down Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg or mace
      2    Eggs
      2    Egg yolks
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Yellow cornmeal
    1/3 c  Madeira
      1 lb Pineapple; peeled
           - cut into 1/2" thick slices
           - core removed
    3/4 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Cream together granulated sugar and 1/2 cup
  butter at medium speed in mixer bowl until smooth. Lower speed; add
  vanilla, nutmeg, eggs, yolks and milk. Mix until incorporated. Add
  baking powder and salt, then flour and cornmeal. Mix until fluffy.
  Set aside. Combine remaining 1/4 cup butter, Madeira and pineapple in
  heavy, 10-inch oven-proof skillet over medium heat and cook 20
  minutes. Pineapple will release a lot of liquid. Remove pineapple
  with slotted spoon and reserve. Continue cooking until liquid is
  reduced nearly to a glaze. Add brown sugar and cook until mixture
  becomes smooth, about 2 minutes. Replace pineapple slices, arranging
  them nicely in syrup. Pour cake batter over fruit. Bake on middle
  rack 20 to 25 minutes. When done, wooden pick inserted into center of
  cake will come out clean. Place large platter over skillet and turn
  upside down to remove cake from skillet. Let cool before serving.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chorizo Quiche in Cornmeal Crust
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------CORNMEAL CRUST----------------------------
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
    3/4 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper
    1/3 c  Shortening
      4 tb -cold water (or more)

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      6 sl Monterey Jack cheese
    1/2 lb Chorizo; casings removed
    1/4 c  Sliced green onions
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Whipping cream
           -=OR=- Half and Half
           Salt, pepper
 
  To make crust, sift together cornmeal, flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt and
  pepper. Cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Add
  water, 1 tablespoon at a time, stirring lightly until mixture forms
  ball. Turn out onto lightly floured board and roll dough to 13-inch
  circle. Fit loosely into 9-inch pie plate or quiche pan. Fold edge
  under and flute.
  
  Arrange cheese slices on bottom of crust. Fry sausage until cooked and
  crumbly. Drain off fat. Sprinkle sausage on top of cheese, then top
  with green onions. Lightly beat eggs in bowl, stir in whipping cream
  and season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour over cheese and
  chorizo mixture. Place on bottom rack of oven and bake at 450F 15
  minutes. Reduce heat to 350F and bake additional 25 to 30 minutes.
  Let stand 10 minutes before cutting.
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Triple Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Butter
      3    Eggs
  1 1/3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1    10/12 oz jar apricot preserv

MMMMM-------------------CHOCOLATE BUTTER CREAM------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter, softened
    1/4 c  Sifted cocoa
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sifted powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Milk

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
    1/4 c  Water
 
      Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour two 9" round cake
  pans.
      To prepare the cake, in a medium bowl, combine the flour, cocoa,
  baking soda and salt.  In a large bowl, with electric mixer on
  medium, beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about 10
  minutes.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
  Add vanilla.  With mixer on low, alternately beat in flour mixture
  and water.  Pour batter into pans.  Bake for 30 - 35 minutes until
  toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool in pans for 10
  minutes.  Remove from pans: cool on rack.
  
      Using a sharp knife, split each layer in half horizontally.
  Spread 3 layers with the preserves.
  
      To prepare the butter cream filling, beat butter until light and
  fluffy Alternately beat in sugar, cocoa and milk.  Add vanilla.
  Spread 1/3 of the butter cream over each layer with apricot
  preserves.  Stack layers, ending with the plain layer.
  
      To prepare the glaze, in a small saucepan, mix sugar, cocoa, heavy
  cream and water.  Cook over low heat, stirring, until smooth.  Bring
  to a boil: Boil for 1 minute.  Cool slightly.
  
      Place cake on rack over wax paper.  Pour glaze over the cake,
  spread- ing to evenly coat.  Chill 30 minutes or until set.  Garnish
  with whipped cream piped around the top edge and spot the chopped
  pistashios around the top of the whipped cream.
  
  This is from one of my MIL's clippings from Women's Day.  Date unknown
  
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Steak
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Slices bacon
    1/2 c  Mushrooms, sliced thin
      1    Clove garlic, minced
  1 1/4 c  Water
    1/4 ts Basil
      1 c  Stuffing mix
      1 tb Oil
      1    10.5 oz can mushroom gravy
      1    Small onion chopped fine
      1    Stalk celery
    1/4 c  Wild rice or regular rice
    1/2 ts Beef bouillon
           Dash of pepper
      2 tb Parsley chopped fine
      4    Cube steaks
 
      In a medium skillet, cook bacon over medium low heat for 5-8
  minutes, until crisp.  Drain, reserving 1 Tbsp fat.  Crumble bacon
  and set aside.
      Add onion, mushrooms, celery and garlic to skillet; saute 5
  minutes or until tender.  Add rice, 1 cup of the water, bouillon,
  basil and pepper. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer 30 minutes
  or until tender (broth will not be completely absorbed).  Remove from
  heat and stir in stuffing mix.  Stir in bacon and parsley; set
  stuffing aside.
      In a large skillet, heat oil over medium high heat.  Cook steaks
  for 2-3 minutes on each side, until browned.  Drain any fat from
  skillet.  Stir together the gravy and remaining 1/4 cup of water;
  pour over the steaks. Place 1/4 of the stuffing over each steak.
  Reduce heat, cover and simmer about 20 minutes, until steaks are
  tender.  Garnish with cherry tomatoes
  
  This is from one of my MIL's clippings from Women's Day.  Date unknown
  
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Supreme
 Categories: Poultry, Meat, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Chicken breasts, halved
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 lb Sliced mushrooms
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Butter
      1    Env cream of mushroom soup
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Cooked noodles
 
      Preheat oven to 300 degrees.  Sprinkle chicken with the paprika
  and pepper.  In a large skillet, melt butter over medium heat.  Add
  chicken and cook, turning, 5-7 minutes until browned.  Place in a 13
  x 9 inch baking dish.  Add mushrooms to skillet.  Cook, stirring
  often, for 2-3 minutes.
  
      In a small saucepan, combine soup mix and wine.  Cook over low
  heat for about 2 minutes until slightly thickened.  Stir in heavy
  cream and sauteed mushrooms.  Cook 1 minute or until heated through;
  do not boil.  Pour soup mixture over the chicken.  Bake for 35 - 40
  minutes or until tender. Sprinkle with the parsley.  Serve over
  noodles.
  
  This is from one of my MIL's clippings from Women's Day.  Date unknown
  
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Stew with Prunes and Apricots
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Fruit, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      1 lb Pork cut in 1" chunks
      3    Stalks celery chopped
      1    Medium onion chopped
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 c  Brandy
  1 1/2 c  Pitted prunes, halved
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Oil
      2    Carrots cut in 1/2" pieces
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Dried apricot halves
 
      In a plastic bag combine the flour, 1/4 tsp of the salt, paprika,
  garlic powder, and 1/8 tsp of the pepper.  Add a few pieces of the
  meat, and shake in the flour until coated.  Repeat with the remaining
  meat; set aside.
  
      In a heavy saucepan, heat oil over medium high heat.  Add meat
  several pieces at a time and brown.  Remove and set aside.  Reduce
  heat to medium low and stir in celery, carrots, onion, parsley, cumin
  and allspice.  Cook stirring, 5 minutes.  Stir in brandy and cook 2
  minutes.  Add broth, pork, remaining 1/4 tsp of the salt and 1/8 tsp
  of the pepper.  Bring to a boil. Cover and simmer 45 minutes,
  stirring occasionally.  Add prunes and apri- cots, and cook 10
  minutes or until fruits are tender.
      Serve over noodles.
  
  This is from one of my MIL's clippings from Women's Day.  Date unknown
  
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Sausage with Rice
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Chicken legs
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 lb Italian sausage 1" pieces
      2    Green peppers cut in strips
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1    28 oz can tomatoes
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, quartered
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Oil
      2 c  Uncooked rice
      1    Large onion sliced
    1/2 c  Red wine
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Basil, crushed
    1/4 ts Sugar
 
      Season chicken with salt and pepper.  In a large skillet heat
  oil.  Add chicken and cook, turning, until browned, about 5 minutes.
  Remove and set aside.  Add sausages to skillet and brown.  Remove and
  set aside.
  
      Add rice, green pepper, onion and garlic to skillet; cook,
  stirring until rice is lightly browned, about 5 minutes.  Stir in
  wine and simmer 2 minutes.  Stir in tomatoes, broth, mushrooms,
  basil, bay leaf and sugar. Return chicken and sausages to the
  skillet.  Reduce heat; cover and simmer 35 - 40 minutes until chicken
  is tender.  Remove and discard fat.
  
  This is from one of my MIL's clippings from Women's Day.  Date unknown
  
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dixie's Red Beans and Rice
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetable, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 cn Dark Red Kidney Beans
    1/2    Onion; Chopped
           Cajun, Creole seasoning
           Cayenne pepper
    1/2 pk Sausage, fully cooked
      1 c  Rice, long cooking white
           Louisiana hot sauce
           Black pepper
 
  Cook rice according to package directions.  Microwave is best.  Takes
  about 20 minutes.  Meanwhile, in saucepan, combine cans of beans, 2
  cans water, Louisiana hot sauce (Red Devil is right kind but not
  Texas Pete or tabasco. Sauce is based on cayenne peppper.)  Also
  onion, Creole and/or Cajun seasoning, avail. in spice or Cajun
  section of store; but LOOK OUT FOR THOSE THAT CONTAIN SALT if so,
  don't add too much and don't add extra salt. If Cajun seasoning
  contains salt, you can easily get too salty- Also may add cayenne
  pepper to taste; Black pepper.  Chop up sausage (any kind is OK as
  long as "Fully cooked"; hot is preferable to most who prefer a hot
  taste-) Taste as you go to make sure not too salty or too hot.  Boil
  slowly for about 20 minutes, until it begins to thicken and smells
  REAL good. Serve beans in bowl OVER white rice.
  
  Courtesy of Dixie Daniels in Intelec Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minestrone Lo-Cal
 Categories: Soup/stew, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced Celery
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced Carrot
    3/4 c  (1 lg) Potato, cut 1" pieces
           Clove Garlic, minced
     16 oz Can Tomatoes, undrained
      1 c  Thinly sliced Zucchini
    1/2 lb Green Beans,cut in 1" piece
    1/2 c  Broken Spaghetti
      3 c  Hot Water
      2 ts Instant Beef Bouillon powde
      1 ts Basil leaves
      1 tb Parsley Flakes
 
   In 3-qt casserole, combine all ingredients. Cover. Microwave at High
  25-35 minutes or until vegetables are tender, stirring once or twice.
  PER SERVING: 35 calories, 315 mg sodium, 0 cholesterol Exchanges: 1
  1/2 vegetables
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meshoui
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 5 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------THE LAMB-------------------------------
      4 lb Lamb; leg of
      1    Carrot
      1    Onion; med.
      2    Tomatoes
      1    Celery; rib
      1    Parsley; small bunch
      1 tb Paprika
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Black Pepper
      2 tb Chopped Carlic
      1 qt Water

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 qt Water
      1 tb Tomato paste
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. All Vegetables should be coarsely
  chopped.
  
  Rub Paprika, Salt, Pepper, and Garlic all over lamb. Set aside.
  
  In a roasting pan, nestle lamb in the center of the vegetables and
  cook, uncovered for approx. 20 min (for 4 lb. leg) or until top of
  lamb is brown Add water, cover, and cook 1 1/2 hours for medium done
  roast.
  
  serve with Moroccan Lamb Sauce.
  
  LAMB SAUCE: strain vegetables from roasting pan.  Pour drippings in a
  heav pan and add Tomato Paste and water.
   Simmer for about 15 min, skimming grase from top of sauce several
  times. Posted by Bud Cloyd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pierogi Casserole
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -From the Kitchen of
           -Lawrence & Cindy Kellie
           -Ingredients in directions
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Theresa Bryant
  
  This came from my friend's Pennsylvania cookbook. I tried it once and
  hope to try it again. It's different from anything I've had before.
  
  Cook 4 large potatoes. Mash and add 1/4 lb. white American cheese.
   Cook 1/2 box lasagna noodles and drain. Grease an oblong pan with
  butter. Add a little milk to prevent sticking. Fry 2 large onions in
  butter. Layer noodles and potatoes. Top with onions. Bake at 350
  degrees for 35 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seattle Scrapple
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Breakfast, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -From the Kitchen of
           -Lawrence and Cindy Kellie
      2 tb Canola oil
    1/4 c  Onion; minced
  1 1/4 c  Cornmeal; yellow
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sage; dried
    1/2 ts Thyme; dried
    1/4 ts Pepper; black
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      3 c  Chicken bouillon
           -extra strong
      2 c  Chicken
           -cooked, ground up
 
  Saute onion in oil.  Add cornmeal, spices, adn broth.  Cook for 15
  minutes. When thickened like cornmeal mush, add chicken.  Put into
  greased 9x5 loaf pan. Pat it down.  Refrigerate overnight
  
  For breakfast, cut 1/2 inch slices, coat with flour and fry until
  golden brown in oil
  
  Must cook and THEN grind the chicken/turkey.
  
  Seasoning the dipping flour will add more and varied flavors to your
  scrapple.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggless "Mayonnaise"
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -From the Kitchen of
           -Lawrence & Cindy Kellie
      1 cn Evaporated milk (5.33 oz)
      1 c  Vegetable oil
           Juice of one lemon
    1/2 ts Chicken-like seasoning
        ds Garlic calt
        ds Seasoning salt
 
  Pour evaporated milk into blender.  Through top of blender, gradually
  add oil, pouring in a constant, thin stream.  This will make a while
  emulsiion.
  
  Pour into small bowl. Add seasonings and mix well.  Add lemon juice
  last, because as soon as you add it, the dressing will begin to set
  up.  Keep stirring until mayonnaise is a good consistency and the
  little lumps have disappeared.
  
  Store in refrigerater.  This won't keep as long as commercial
  mayonnaise, but it will keep several days.  Use ust as you would
  mayonnaise or salad dressing.
  
  The Sandwich Book
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sandwich Relish
 Categories: Relish, Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -From the Kitchen of
           -Lawrence & Cindy Kellie
      1 c  Homemade "mayonnaise"
  1 1/2 ts Pimiento; finely chopped
  1 1/2 ts Parsley; finely chopped
      2 tb Celery; finely chopped
      2 tb Dill pickle; finely chopped
      2 tb Green onion; finely chopped
      1 pk George Washington Broth
           -golden
    1/2 ts Turmeric
        ds Italian seasoning
 
  Mix all ingredients thoroughly and refrigerate.  Won't keep as long as
  commercial sandwich spread.
  
  The Sandwich Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Egg Filling
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -From the Kitchen of
           Lawrence & Cindy Kellie
      1    Onion; finely chopped
      2 tb Parsley; finely chopped
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Tomato; fresh or canned
      1 tb Flour
      6    Egg; lightly beaten
           Seasonings to taste:
           -salt, season salt
           -George Washington Broth
 
  Suate ontions in oil.  Add tomatoes (chopped or mashed) and stir in
  flour to make a thick paste.  Turn down heat before adding eggs,
  parsley and seasonings.  Cook like scrambling eggs, stirring
  constantly.  Remove from heat when set.  Cool and add mayonnaise to
  make a soft spread.
  
  The Sandwich Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honeyed Peanut Butter
 Categories: Sandwich, Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -From the Kitchen of
           -Lawrence & Cindy Kellie
      1 c  Butter; softened
      1 c  Peanut butter
    1/4 c  Honey

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
      2 tb Toasted sesame seeds
 
  Beat ingredients together for several minutes.  If you have a food
  processor, let it do the work for you.
  
  Option:  After spreading on bread, cover withhalved, seedless grapes,
  or banana penneis, or crisp apple slices.  The fruie will make the
  sandwich delightfully moist and be a lunchtime surprise.
  
  The Sandwich Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Fried Mashed Potatoes
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------MAIN INGREDIENT---------------------------
      2 c  Mashed potatoes
           Salt and pepper, to taste
           Cheese, any type (optional)

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Flour
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk

MMMMM-------------------------DEEP FRYER------------------------------
           Oil or lard, sufficient
           For deep frying
 
  Make mashed potatoes into golf-ball or small balls.  Add cheese(s),
  as per taste.  Freeze for 2 hours, or more.
  
  Make batter from flour, milk, egg and salt.  Gently dip mashed potato
  balls in batter, being careful that all exposed potato is coated with
  batter.
  
  Deep fry in hot oil/fat until golden-brown.
  
  Serve as a side dish, in place of any other form of potatoe.
  
  This is a semi-original dish, developed the hard way, from a meal I
  had in a French restuarant in Quebec.   From the very weird kitchen
  of &&& Dan and Bonnie Ceppa &&& + kid-lings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crock Pot Italian Beef
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Sandwich, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    3 -5 lb rump roast
      1 pk Good Seasons Italian Dress-
           -ing Mix
      1 c  Water
      1 pk Au jus gravy mix
      2 ts Italian seasoning
      6    Pepperoncini peppers
 
  Mix together water, gravy mix, dressing, and Italian seasoning.  Pour
  over roast in crock-pot.  Add peppers if desired.  Cook on LOW about
  2 hrs. Break up reoast and cook 1 more hour.  Serv on hambureger buns.
  
  Variation:  Linda Hendrickson makes this uising on 4 lb. chuck roast,
  1 pkg. Good Seasons mix and 1/2 cup water. From the Bumgarner Family
  Recipes submitted by Linda Tebrugge Schultz
  
  posted to COOKING echo by Bud Cloyd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Book Data
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients
 
  Library of Congress Cataloging-In-Publication Data
  
  Steele, Louise, 1945- The book of hot & spicy foods.
  
  Includes index. 1. Cookery, International. 2. Spices.
  
  I. Title. II. Title: Book of hot and spicy foods.
  
  TX725.A1S655 1987 641.6'384 87-11917 ISBN 0-89586-642-0 About the
  Author
  
  Louise Steele has a wide range of experience in writing magazine
  articles and books throughout the world. She is a cookery writer and
  editor for several publications. A trained home economist, she has
  authored several cookbooks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Introduction
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients
 
  Variety is said to be the spice of life and, whereas for many
  millions of people throughout the world, life has been a variety of
  spices for centuries, it's only thanks to early explorers, who
  returned home with shiploads of exotic spices, that Western culinary
  art was transformed.
  
  THE BOOK OF HOT & SPICY FOODS has a collection of over 100 beautifully
  illustrated step-by-step recipes which include traditional favorites
  like Steak au Poivre, Mexican Chili con Carne, Indonesian Gado Gado
  and Creole Jambalaya, plus many Indian and Oriental dishes and lots
  of sizzling new surprises and variations on a theme. Whether it's a
  simple snack, a teatime treat or an elegant dinner party dish you're
  after, this book has a recipe for all occasions.
  
  Spices are invaluable for adding that special blend of heat or
  fragrance and pungency to all manner of savory and sweet dishes.
  Don't be daunted by those unfamiliar to you - try them, you'll never
  know what you've been missing, but bear in mind that some are
  stronger and fierier than others. If experimenting, it is wise to
  start with small amounts - you can always add more to taste at a
  later stage. And remember - the amount of spices in many of the
  following recipes are suggested as a guide, so feel free to increase
  or decrease the amounts according to personal preference.
  
  It is the chili (in its various forms) that adds heat to a dish. You
  will find instructions on how to prepare this fiery spice (without
  getting burnt!), plus many recipes using it. There is also plenty of
  information on all the other hot spices - muctard, pepper, cloves and
  ginger - plus, of course, the more fragrant, aeromatic ones like
  cardamom, cumin, nutmeg, etc. And no spice book would be complete
  without recipes for making Curry Powder, Garam Masala, Five Spice
  Powder, Mixed Spice, Pickling Spice and Harissa (a Middle Eastern
  favorite).
  
  The follwing recipes range from mild to hot or just wonderfully
  spicy. It is surely a collection to please not only hot and spicy
  food-lovers everywhere, but also tempting enough to persuade the
  "uninitiated" to sample the delights of spicy foods!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilies
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients
 
  Chilies belong to the capsicum family, as do sweet peppers, but there
  the relationship ends, for the fiery heat of the chili is in no way
  similar to its mild-flavored relation. Fresh chilies are now widely
  available and vary considerably in size, shape and heat factor. In
  principle, the fatter chilies tend to be more mild than the long,
  thin varieties, and the smaller the chili, the hotter its taste.
  Generally, the unripened, green chili is less fiery than when ripened
  and red. This is a useful guide to follow, but there are exceptions
  according to the variety, so it is wise to remember that all chilies,
  irrespective of color, shape and size, are hot, so use caution before
  adding them to a dish. Bear in mind that a little chili goes a long
  way, so add a small amount to begin with and gradually increase the
  quantity to your liking during cooking.
  
  Take care when preparing chilies - the tiny, cream-colored seeds
  inside are the hottest part and, in general, are removed before
  using. Chilies contain a pungent oil which can cause an unpleasant
  burning sensation to eyes and skin, so it's a wise precaution to wear
  rubber gloves when handling chilies and be sure not to touch your
  face and eyes during preparation. Cut off the stalk end, then split
  open the pod and scrape out seeds, using a pointed knife, and
  discard. Rinse pod thoroughly with cold running water and pat chili
  dry before chopping or slicing as required. Once this task is
  completed, always wash your hands, utensils and surfaces thoroughly
  with soapy water.
  
  Dried red chilies are sold whole and can vary in size from 1/2-3/4 to
  1-1/2-2 inches in length, so this into account when using. If a recipe
  states small dried chilies, and you only have the larger ones, adapt
  and lessen the quantity accordingly, or to taste. Dried chilies are
  usually soaked in hot water for 1 hour before draining and removing
  seeds as described above), unless a recipe states otherwise.
  
  Dried red chilies, when ground, are used to make cayenne pepper and
  combined with other spices and seasonings, also make chili and curry
  powder, and chili seasoning. They are also used in the making of
  hot-pepper sauce and chili sauces.
  
  The Harissa spice mix uses a large quantity of dried chilies and is
  very hot, so be forewarned! This is a favorite spice mix for many
  Middle Eastern dishes. Don't be tempted to add more Harissa than
  recipe states, unless you are prepared for an extremely hot dish. A
  less fiery Harissa can be made simply by removing the seeds from
  soaked chilies before crushing chilies with other ingredients.
  
  Green chilies are available canned. These are often seeded and peeled
  and taste pleasantly hot and spicy - ideal for adding to pizza
  toppings, sauces and taco fillings. Both red and green chilies also
  come pickled in jars (hot or mild/sweet) and can be found in
  delicatessens and ethnic food shops. Canned and pickled varieties
  should be drained and patted dry before using. Whether you seed the
  pickled type is up to you, just remember the seeds are the hottest
  part!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mustard
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients
 
  White or yellow, brown and black seeds come from the mustard plant,
  according to the species. Most commonly found is the creamy yellow
  type which is the least pungent. The brown type (or Indian mustard)
  is stronger in flavor, while the black mustard seed is the most
  powerful of all. The creamy yellow seeds are more widely available,
  but look for the black and brown types in Asian and Oriental food
  shops and delicatessens.
  
  Whole mustard seeds have a pleasant nutty bite to them and can be
  used to add piquancy to salad dressing and hot sauces. They are
  especially good when served with fish, chicken and pork and are also
  delicious added to cole slaw, creamy potato salad, pickles and
  chutneys. Use mustard seeds (especially the two hotter varieties)
  with discretion to begin with, increasing the amount as you become
  more familiar with the flavors.
  
  It is the yellow seed which, when processed with black seeds, wheat
  flour and turmeric, forms the basis of English mustard. Dry mustard
  can be used as it is in cooking, or it may be mixed to a paste with a
  little cord or warm water. (For a nice, rich mixture, why not try
  mixing it with a little cream or milk?) Once mixed it should be left
  at least 10 minutes to allow time for the flavors to develop. It is
  only when the powder is mixed with a liquid that the essential oils
  are released, giving mustard its pungency and sensation of heat.
  Remember that made mustard loses its pungency after a few hours. Jars
  of prepared mustard, once opened, need using within a few weeks as
  the flavor and color will deteriorate.
  
  The variety of ready-prepared mustards come in a bewildering number of
  mouthwatering flavors, according to the manufacturer. These can be
  made from milled mustard flour, or from coarsely crushed seed (the
  proportions of which vary tremendously, depending on the type). Some
  are mixed with vinegar, others with grape juice or wine (and
  sometimes beer), and often contain various spices, herbs and
  seasonings, such as honey and horseradish. German mustard, which is
  mild and sweet-flavored, is a mixture of brown and white mustard
  flour moistened with vinegar and flavored with various spices. The
  mild-flavored American mustard (popular with children) generally uses
  only yellow mustard seeds with the addition of sugar, vinegar and
  salt. Dijon-style mustard, nade from milled, husked black seeds, is
  flavored with wine and spices. The pungent and spicy grainy types of
  mustard are a mixture of whole, crushed black and yellow seeds with
  additional flavorings added for individuality.
  
  Mustards of all types can be used to great effect, not only as a
  condiment, but also as a culinary ingredient. They add bite and
  piquancy to all types of savory dishes from scrambled eggs, sauces
  and dressings to deviled mixtures, barbecued food, soups, casseroles,
  pastry, scones and cheesy biscuits.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A To Z of Spices (Part 1)
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients
 
  ALLSPICE: These small dark, reddish-brown berries are so called
  because their aroma and flavor resemble a combination of cinnamon,
  cloves and nutmeg. Use berries whole in marinades; for boiling and
  pot roasting meats and poultry; in fish dishes, pickles and chutneys.
  Also available ground and excellent for flavoring soups, sauces and
  desserts.
  
  ANISE: Commonly called asniseed, these small, brown oval seeds have
  the sweet, pungent flavor of licorice. Also available ground. Use
  seeds in stews and vegetable dishes, or sprinkle over loaves and
  rolls before baking. Try ground anise for flavoring fish dishes and
  pastries for fruit pies.
  
  CARAWAY: Small brown, crescent-shaped seeds with a strong liquorice
  flavor and especially delicious as a flavoring in braised cabbage and
  sauerkraut recipes, breads (particularly rye), cakes and cheeses.
  
  CARDAMOM: Small, triangular-shaped pods containing numerous small
  black seeds which have a warm, highly aeromatic flavor. You can buy
  green or black cardamoms although the smaller green type is more
  widely available.
  
  CAYENNE: Orangey-red in color, this ground pepper is extremely hot and
  pungent. Not to be confused with paprika which, although related, is
  mild flavored.
  
  CHILI POWDER: Made from dried red chilies. This red powder varies in
  flavor and hotness, from mild to hot. A less fiery type is found in
  chili seasoning.
  
  CINNAMON & CASSIA: Shavings of bark from the cinnamon tree are
  processed and curled to form cinnamon sticks. Also available in
  ground form. Spicy, fragrant and sweet, it is used widely in savory
  and sweet dishes. Cassia (from the dried bark of the cassia tree) is
  similar to cinnamon, but less delicate in flavor with a slight
  pungent 'bite'.
  
  CLOVES: These dried, unopened flower buds give a warm aroma and
  pungency to foods, but should be used with care as the flavor can
  become overpowering. Available in ground form. Cloves are added to
  soups, sauces, mulled drinks, stewed fruits and apple pies.
  
  CORIANDER: Available in seed and ground form. These tiny, pale brown
  seeds have a mild, spicy flavor with a slight orange peel fragrance.
  An essential spice in curry dishes, but also extremely good in many
  cake and cookie recipes.
  
  CUMIN: Sold in seed or ground. Cumin has a warm, pungent aromatic
  flavor and is used extensively in flavor curries and many Middle
  Eastern and Mexican dishes. Popular in Germany for flavoring
  sauerkraut and pork dishes. Use ground or whole in meat dishes and
  stuffed vegetables.
  
  All spices should be stored in small airtight jars in a cool, dark
  place, as heat, moisture and sunlight reduce their flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A To Z of Spices (Part 2)
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients
 
  FENUGREEK: These small, yellow-brown seeds have a slight bitter flavor
  which, when added in small quantities, is very good in curries,
  chutneys and pickles, soups, fish and shellfish dishes.
  
  GINGER: Available in many forms. Invaluable for adding to many savory
  and sweet dishes and for baking gingerbread and brandy snaps. Fresh
  ginger root looks like a knobby stem. It should be peeled and finely
  chopped or sliced before use. Dreid ginger root is very hard and
  light beige in color. To release flavor, "bruise" with a spoon or
  soak in hot water before using. This dried type is more often used in
  pickling, jam making and preserving. Also available in ground form,
  preserved stem ginger and crystallized ginger.
  
  MACE & NUTMEG: Both are found on the same plant. The nutmeg is the
  inner kernel of the fruit. When ripe, the fruit splits open to reveal
  bright red arils which lie around the shell of the nutmeg - and once
  dried are known as mace blades. The flavor of both spices is very
  similar - warm, sweet and aromatic, although nutmeg is more delicate
  than mace. Both spices are also sold ground. Use with vegetables;
  sprinkled over egg dishes, milk puddings and custards; eggnogs and
  mulled drinks; or use as a flavoring in desserts.
  
  PAPRIKA: Comes from a variety of pepper (capsicum) and although
  similar in color to cayenne, this bright red powder has a mild flavor.
  
  PEPPER: White pepper comes from ripened berries with the outer husks
  removed. Black pepper comes from unripened berries dried until dark
  greenish-black in color. Black pepper is more subtle than white. Use
  white or black peppercorns in marinades and pickling, or freshly
  ground as a seasoning. Both are available ground. Green peppercorns
  are also unripe berries with a mild, light flavor. They are canned in
  brine or pickled, or freeze-dried in jars. They add a pleasant, light
  peppery flavor to sauces, pates and salad dressings. Drain those
  packed in liquid and use either whole or mash them lightly before
  using. Dry green peppercorns should be lightly crushed before using
  to help release flavor, unless otherwise stated in a recipe.
  
  POPPY SEEDS: These tiny, slate-blue seeds add a nutty flavor to both
  sweet and savory dishes. Sprinkle over desserts and breads.
  
  SAFFRON: This pice comes from the stigmas of a species of crocus. It
  has a distinctive flavor and gives a rich yellow coloring to dishes,
  however, it is also the most expensive spice to buy. Available in
  small packets or jars (either powdered or in strands - the strands
  being far superior in flavor). This spice is a must for an authentic
  paella or Cornish Saffron Cake. Also an extremely good flavoring for
  soups, fish and chicken dishes.
  
  SESAME SEEDS: High in protein and mineral oil content, sesame seeds
  have a crisp texture and sweet, nutty flavor which combines well in
  curries and with chicken, pork and fish dishes. Use also to sprinkle
  over breads, cookies and pastries before baking.
  
  STAR ANISE: This dried, star-shaped seed head has a pungent, aromatic
  smell, rather similar to fennel. Use very sparingly in stir-fry
  dishes. Also good with fish and poultry.
  
  TURMERIC: Closely related to ginger, it is an aromatic root which is
  dried and ground to produce a bright, orange-yellow powder. It has a
  rich, warm, distinctive smell, a delicate, aromatic flavor and helps
  give dishes an attractive yellow coloring. Use in curries, fish and
  shellfish dishes, rice pilafs and lentil mixtures. It is also a
  necessary ingredient in mustard pickles and piccalilli.
  
  All spices should be stored in small airtight jars in a cool, dark
  place, as heat, moisture and sunlight reduce their flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Five Spice Powder
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 ts Ground anise (aniseed)
      5 ts Star anise
      1    Cinnamon stick (5") in
           -cassia bark
      2 tb Whole cloves
      7 ts Fennel seeds
 
  Using a blender, process all ingredients until finely ground. Store
  in an airtight jar up to 3 months.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed Spice
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Cinnamon stick (3"), broken
           -in small pieces
  2 1/2 ts Allspice berries
      1 tb Whole cloves
      2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
      1 tb Ground ginger
 
  Using a coffee grinder or blender, process cinnamon, allspice berries
  and cloves until very finely ground. Add to freshly grated nutmeg and
  ginger and mix well. Store in a small, airtight jar up to 3 months.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickling Spice
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Mace blades
      1 tb Allspice berries
      1 tb Whole cloves
      2    Cinnamon sticks (3"), broken
           -into small pieces
     12    Black peppercorns
      1    Dried bay leaf, crumbled
 
  In a small bowl, mix all ingredients.Store in a small, airtight jar
  up to 2 months.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Harissa
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 oz Dried red chilies
      1    Garlic clove, chopped
      1 ts Caraway seeds
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Coriander seeds
        pn Salt (several)
           Olive oil
 
  Soak chilies in hot water 1 hour. Drain well; pat dry. Grind to a
  smooth paste with garlic, spices and salt. Add enough olive oil to
  cover surface. Cover and store in a cool up to 2 months.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Spiced Olives
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Pitted ripe olives
    3/4 c  Pimiento-stuffed green
           -olives
      3    Lemon slices
      3    Dried red chilies
      2    Garlic cloves, crushed
      1 ts Mustard seeds
      1 ts Black peppercorns
      3    Allspice berries
  1 3/4 c  Olive oil
 
  Add lemon slices, chilies, garlic, mustard seeds, peppercorns and
  allspice berries. Stir in olive oil and mix well. Spoon mixture into
  a large jar with a tight-fitting lid. Screw on lid tightly and turn
  jar over several times to ensure ingredients are well mixed.
  
  Let olives marinate at least 1 week before serving, turning jar
  several times a day. Store up to 6 months in a cool place.
  
  NOTE: Use a mixture of corn oil and olive oil for a more economical
  marinade. Add sprigs of dried herbs to marinade, if desired. To serve,
  garnish with lemon twists and a fresh parsley sprig, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesy Mushroom Canapes
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      4 oz Mushrooms, coarsely chopped
      4 ts All-purpose flour
      2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
      1 ts Mustard powder
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      8    Slices French bread (3/4")
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Paprika
           Fresh parsley sprigs (opt)
 
  In a saucepan, melt butter. Add mushrooms and cook gently 2 minutes.
  Add flour and stir into mushroom mixture.
  
  Add cheese, mustard and Worcestershire sauce. Stir well and heat
  through gently 2 minutes or until mixture begins to melt. Remove from
  heat and season to taste with pepper.
  
  Preheat broiler. Toast bread on one side only. Spread cheese and
  mushroom mixture on untoasted sides. Broil in preheated broiler 3-4
  minutes or until melted and bubbling. Cut slices in half and sprinkle
  liberally with parsley and paprika. Garnish with parsley sprigs, if
  desired, and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bombay Nut 'n' Raisin Mix
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    2/3 c  Thin pretzel sticks
      3 tb Butter
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
    1/3 c  Unblanched almonds
    1/3 c  Pine nuts
    1/3 c  Unsalted cashews
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
    1/3 c  Seedless raisins
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Break pretzels into 1" sticks. Melt butter in a skillet.
  
  Add garlic in butter, then stir in almonds, pine nuts and cashews. Add
  Worcestershire sauce, curry powder and chili powder and mix well.
  Stir in pretzels and cook gently over medium heat 3-4 minutes,
  stirring frequently.
  
  Remove from heat. Add raisins and salt; mix well. Turn mixture into a
  serving dish and cool. Makes about 2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocktail Kebabs
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 lg Shrimp, cooked
      2    Green onions, trimmed
    1/2    Red bell pepper, seeded, cut
           -in thin strips and
           -decorative shapes
      8 sm Ripe or green olives
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Coarsely ground mustard
    1/4 ts Creamed horseradish
 
  Remove heads and body shells from shrimp but leave on tail shells.
  
  Devein shrimp by removing black spinal cord. Cut each green onion in 4
  daisies. Put shrimp, green onions, bell pepper and olives in a bowl.
  Mix garlic, lemon juice, olive oil, sugar, mustard and horseradish.
  
  Pour over shrimp mixture, cover and marinate at least 2 hours,
  stirring occasionally. Remove ingredients from marinade and thread
  equally on 8 wooden picks. Drain on paper towels.
  
  VARIATION: Add small slices avacado to shrimp mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Filo Shrimp Puffs
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 tb Sesame oil
      2 tb Corn oil
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Piece ginger root (1"),
           -peeled, grated
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
      6 oz Medium-size peeled shrimp,
           -raw, thawed if frozen
      2 tb Creamed coconut, diced
      5    Filo pastry sheets
    1/4 c  Butter or ghee, melted
           Fresh Italian parsley sprigs
 
  Preheat oven to 350'F. (175'C.). Lightly grease a baking sheet. Heat
  sesame and corn oil in a saucepan. Add garlic, onion and ginger. Fry
  gently 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
  
  Add turmeric, chili powder and cumin. Fry gently 2 minutes. Add
  shrimp, cover and cook gently 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Remove
  from heat, stir in creamed coconut and cool.
  
  Work with 1-2 sheets of filo pastry at a time; cover remainder with a
  damp cloth. Cut sheet of pastry in half lengthwise and then fold each
  piece in half lengthwise to make 2 long narrow strips. Spoon a
  portion of shrimp mixture in 1 corner of each strip of pastry. Brush
  pastry all over with a small amount of melted butter or ghee.
  
  Fold pastry and filling over at right angles to make a triangle.
  Continue folding in this way along pastry strip to form a triangular
  parcel. Brush with melted butter or ghee and place on greased baking
  sheet. Repeat with remaining pastry and shrimp mixture.
  
  Bake in preheated oven 20 minutes. Brush with remaining melted butter
  or ghee and return to oven 5-10 minutes or until puffs are golden
  brown. Garnish with pastry sprigs, if desired, and serve warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tangy Potted Cheese
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 oz Cheddar cheese
    1/4 c  Butter, softened
      1 tb Port or sherry
      4    Green onions, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds
      1 ts Coarsely ground mustard
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Walnuts, coarsely chopped
           Crackers or melba toast
           Fresh parsley sprigs (opt)
 
  Finely grate cheese into a bowl. Add butter and mix well.
  
  Stir in port, green onions, caraway seeds, mustard and Worcestershire
  sauce. Mix thoroughly until well combined.
  
  Spoon mixture into a serving dish. Cover with walnuts and press
  walnuts down lightly into mixture. Chill at least 2 hours. Serve with
  crisp crackers or Melba toast and garnish with parsley sprigs, if
  desired.
  
  VARIATION: Add 1 teaspoon chopped fresh herbs and a few pinches
  cayenne pepper to taste.
  
  NOTE: This spread will keep in a refrigerator for up to 5 days.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piquant Popcorn
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack, Popcorn
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Corn oil
      2    Garlic cloves, crushed
      1    1/2" piece ginger root,
           -peeled, chopped
      1 c  Popping corn
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 ts Hot chili sauce
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt to taste
 
  Heat oil in a saucepan. Add 1 clove of crushed garlic, ginger and
  popping corn. Stir well.
  
  Cover and cook over medium-high heat 3-5 minutes, holding lid firmly
  and shaking pan frequently until popping stops. Turn popped corn onto
  a dish, discarding any unpopped corn kernels. Melt butter in pan.
  Stir in remaining clove of crushed garlic and chili sauce.
  
  Return corn to pan and toss well until evenly coated with mixture. Add
  parsley and salt and stir well. Turn into a serving dish. Serve warm
  or cold.
  
  VARIATION: Omit chili sauce and add 1 teaspoon dry mustard, 1 teaspoon
  paprika, 1/2 teaspoon ground coriander and 2 tablespoons chopped fresh
  chives to melted butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Chili Bites
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
      1 lg Pinch cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Finely grated Cheddar cheese
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 tb Cold water
      1 tb Sesame seeds
      1 tb Poppy seeds
 
  Preheat oven to 400'F. (205'C.). Sift flour, salt and spices into a
  bowl.
  
  Cut in butter finely until mixture resembles breadcrumbs. Add grated
  cheese and mix well. Mix egg with cold water. Add 2 tablespoons of
  egg mixture to cheese mixture and mix to form a fairly stiff dough.
  Knead gently on a lightly floured surface. Roll out dough to a 12x6"
  rectangle. Trim edges. Cut in half lengthwise and transfer to a
  baking sheet.
  
  Breush each half with remaining egg mixture. Sprinkle 1 half with
  sesame seeds and the other half with poppy seeds. Cut each half in 10
  triangles and separate slightly to prevent sticking. Bake in
  preheated oven 10-12 minutes or until light golden and cooked
  through. Cool on a wire rack. Store in an airtight container up to 2
  weeks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppery Mozzarella Salad
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack, Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Mozzarella cheese
      2 lg Beefsteak tomatoes, cut in
           -half
      1    Ripe avacado
      2    Shallots, peeled, thinly
           -sliced
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Sugar
           Salt to taste
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      2 ts Green peppercorns, crushed
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
           Crusty bread or bread sticks
 
  Thinly slice cheese and tomato and arrange on 4 small plates.
  
  Cut avacado in thin slices and arrange with cheese and tomato.
  Separate shallots in rings and scatter over salad.
  
  In a screw-tipped jar, combine olive oil, lemon juice, sugar, salt,
  peppercorns and oregano. Shake vigorously until well blended. Spoon
  over salad and let marinate 1 hour. Garnish with basil, if desired,
  and serve with warm crusty bread or bread sticks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Chicken Liver Pate
 Categories: Appetizer, French
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Butter
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove, chopped
      8 oz Chicken livers
      2 ts Curry powder
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
      2    Hard-boiled eggs, shelled
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      2 pn Cayenne pepper
           Fresh bay leaves (opt)
           Lemon slices (opt)
           Crusty bread
 
  Melt 1/2 of butter in a skillet. Add onion, garlic and chicken livers
  and cook gently 5 minutes, stirring constantly.
  
  Stir in curry powder and cook 1 minute. Add chicken stock and cook
  gently 5 minutes, stirring and turning livers frequently. In a
  blender or food processor, process chicken liver mixture and
  hard-boiled eggs to a smooth puree.
  
  Add salt, pepper and cayenne pepper. Turn mixture into a serving dish
  or terrine. Smooth surface. Melt remaining butter in a saucepan and
  pour over surface of pate. Let set slightly, then garnish with bay
  leaves and lemon pieces, if desired. Chill several hours or overnight
  before serving with bread.
  
  VARIATION: Add curry powder to taste to melted butter topping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mussel & Saffron Soup
 Categories: Appetizer, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Mussels
  1 1/4 c  Dry white wine
  1 1/2 c  Water
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1    Leek, trimmed, fine shredded
    1/2 ts Fenugreek, finely crushed
  1 1/2 tb All-purpose flour
      2 pk Saffron strands, soaked in
      1 tb Boiling water
  1 1/4 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      2 tb Whipping cream
           Fresh parsley sprigs (opt)
 
  Scrub mussels clean in several changes of fresh water and pull off
  beards. Discard any mussels that are cracked or do not close tightly
  when tapped. Put mussels into a saucepan with wine and water. Cover
  and cook over high heat, shaking pan frequently, 6-7 minutes or until
  shells open. Remove mussels, discarding any which remain closed.
  Strain liquid through a fine sieve and reserve.
  
  Heat butter and oil in a saucepan. Add onion, garlic, leek and
  fenugreek and cook gently 5 minutes. Stir in flour and cook 1 minute.
  Add saffron mixture, 2-1/2 cups of reserved cooking liquid and
  chicken stock. Bring to a boil, cover and simmer gently 15 minutes.
  Meanwhile, keep 8 mussels in shells and remove remaining mussels from
  shells. Add all mussels to soup and stir in chopped parsley, salt,
  pepper and cream. Heat through 2-3 minutes. Garnish with parsley
  sprigs, if desired, and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilied Red Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Corn oil
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Fresh green chili, seeded,
           -finely chopped
      1 ts Hot chili powder
      1 cn Red kidney beans (15 oz)
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
           Salt to taste
           Thin slivers fresh red and
           -green chilies
           Fresh parsley sprig (opt)
           Tortilla chips
 
  Heat oil in a skillet. Add garlic, onion, green chili and chili
  powder and cook gently 4 minutes.
  
  Drain kidney beans, reserving juice. Reserve 3 tablespoons beans;
  process remainder in a blender or food processor to a puree. Add to
  onion mixture and stir in 2 tablespoons of reserved bean liquid; mix
  well.
  
  Stir in reserved beans and cheese. Cook gently about 2 minutes,
  stirring until cheese melts. Add salt and mix well. If mixture
  becomes too thick, add a little more reserved bean liquid. Spoon into
  a serving dish and garnish with chilies and parsley sprig, if
  desired. Serve warm with tortilla chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Melon Cocktail
 Categories: Appetizer, Beverage
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Ripe honeydew melon, cut in
           -half, seeded
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Tomato paste
      8 oz White crabmeat, flaked
      8    Radicchio leaves (opt)
           Lemon and lime slices (opt)
           Fresh mint leaves (opt)
 
  Scoop melon in balls.
  
  To make dressing, whip cream until soft peaks form. Mix in mayonnaise,
  lemon juice, paprika, hot pepper sauce, Worcestershire sauce and
  tomato paste.
  
  Stir crabmeat into dressing. Lightly mix in melon and toss ingredients
  gently until coated. Arrange shredded radi
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Samosa
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetable, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 oz Potatoes, cut in even-size
           -pieces
    3/4 c  Frozen green peas
      2 tb Corn oil
      1    Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds
      1    Piece ginger root, peeled,
           -grated (1/2")
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Garam Masala
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Warm milk
           Vegetable oil for deep
           -frying
           Lime twists (opt)
           Fresh celery leaves (opt)
           Mango Chutney
 
  In a saucepan, boil potatoes in salted water 15-20 minutes or until
  tender. Drain well, return to saucepan and shake over low heat a few
  moments or until dry. Mash well. Cook peas in boiling salted water 4
  minutes. Drain well.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet. Add onion, cumin seeds, ginger, turmeric, Garam
  Masala and salt. Cook gently 5 minutes. Add mashed potatoes and peas,
  then stir in lemon juice. Mix well, remove from heat and cool.
  
  Sift flour into a bowl. Cut in butter finely until mixture resembles
  bread crumbs. Add milk and mix to form a stiff dough. Divide in 6
  equal pieces.
  
  Form each piece in a ball and roll each ball on a lightly floured
  surface to a 6" circle. Cut each circle in half. Divide filling
  equally among semicircles of pastry.
  
  Dampen edges of pastry, then fold over and seal to form triangles
  which enclose filling completely. Half fill a deep-fat fryer or
  saucepan with oil. Heat oil to 375'F. (190'C.) or until a 1/2" cube
  of day-old bread browns in 40 seconds. Fry samosa in hot oil, a few
  at a time, 3-4 minutes or until golden brown. Drain on paper towels.
  Garnish with lime twists and celery leaves, if desired, and serve hot
  with Mango Chutney.
  
  Makes 12 samosa.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Tahini Pate
 Categories: Appetizer, French
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant
      1 lg Garlic clove
      3    Shallots
      1 ts Garam Masala
      3 tb Tahini (creamed sesame)
      1    Lemon peel, finely grated
      3 tb Lemon juice
           Salt to taste
      2 ts Olive oil
           Cayenne pepper
           Halved lemon slices (opt)
           Fresh parsley sprig (opt)
           Pita bread, cut in strips
 
  Preheat oven to 350'F. (175'C.). Prick eggplant several times with a
  fork.
  
  Bake eggplant in preheated oven 30-40 minutes or until softened and
  skin has turned dark brown. Cool, trim ends and peel eggplant.
  Process flesh in a blender or food processor with garlic, shallots,
  Garam Masala, tahini, lemon peel and juice until smooth and evenly
  combined.
  
  Season with salt. Spoon mixture into a serving bowl, drizzle with
  olive oil and sprinkle with cayenne pepper. Garnish with lemon slices
  and parsley sprig, if desired, and serve with pita bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion & Mushroom Bhajis
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Onion
      2 oz Button mushrooms
    1/4 c  Brown rice flour
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Plain yogurt
           Vegetable oil for deep
           -frying
           Fresh parsley sprig (opt)
 
  Peel, quarter and thinly slice onion.
  
  Coarsely chop mushrooms. In a bowl, combine flours, turmeric, chili
  powder, cumin, coriander and salt. Stir in onion, mushrooms and
  yogurt; mix well.
  
  Half fill a deep-fat fryer or saucepan with oil; heat to 375'F.
  (190'C.) or until a 1/2" cube of day-old bread browns in 40 seconds.
  Divide mixture in 10 equal portions. Drop spoonfuls of mixture into
  hot oil and fry 3-4 minutes or until golden brown and cooked through.
  Drain on paper towels. Garnish with parsley sprig, if desired, and
  serve warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deviled Tomatoes
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Firm tomatoes
      2 tb Butter
      1 sm Garlic clove, crushed
    1/2 c  Fresh white bread crumbs
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
           Salt to taste
           Fresh parsley sprigs
 
  Preheat oven to 350'F. (175'C.). Grease a 9" square baking pan. Cut
  1/3 slice off top of each tomato.
  
  Reserve tops for 'lids'. Remove seeds from each tomato. Melt butter
  in a saucepan. Add garlic, bread crumbs and chopped parsley; mix well.
  
  Remove from heat. Add cayenne pepper, paprika, mustard, cheese and
  salt; mix well. Spoon into tomatoes and form in neat mounds, pressing
  gently in shape with fingertips. Put reserved 'lids' on top. Arrange
  tomatoes, cut sides up, in greased pan. Bake in preheated oven 15
  minutes. Garnish with parsley sprigs and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Ginger Shrimp
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Unshelled raw jumbo shrimp,
           -thawed if frozen
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Corn oil
    1/4 c  Water
      1    Piece ginger root, peeled,
           -grated (1")
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1 ts Chili sauce
      1    Egg white
           Vegetable oil
      1    Green onion daisy
           Red bell pepper strips
 
  Shell shrimp, leaving tail shells on. Make a small incision along
  spines. Remove black spinal cord from shrimp.
  
  In a bowl, combine flour, salt, corn oil and water. Stir in ginger,
  garlic and chili sauce and beat well. Stiffly whisk egg white, then
  gently fold into batter until evenly combined.
  
  Half fill a deep-fat fryer or saucepan with oil; heat to 375'F.
  (190'C.) or until a 1/2" cube of day-old bread browns in 40 seconds.
  Hold each shrimp by its tail and dip into batter, then lower into hot
  oil. Fry 3 minutes or until golden. Drain on paper towels. Garnish
  with green onion daisy and bell pepper strips and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Gumbo Pot
 Categories: Appetizer, Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Eggplant
      2 ts Salt
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      1    Red pepper, seeded, diced
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
      4 oz Fresh okra
    3/4 c  Frozen corn, thawed
      2 c  Boiling chicken stock
      1 cn Tomatoes in tomato juice
           -(8 oz)
      2 tb Long grain white rice
      8 oz Peeled cooked medium-size
           -shrimp, thawed if frozen
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
           Fresh dill sprigs (opt)
 
  Trim stalk end from eggplant. Cut in 1/2" pieces and place in a
  colander. Sprinkle with 2 teaspoons salt; let stand 30 minutes. Rinse
  under cold water and drain well.
  
  Heat olive oil in a saucepan. Add eggplant, onion, red pepper and
  garlic and fry over low heat 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Stir in
  paprika and chili powder and cook gently 2 minutes.
  
  Trim stalk ends from okra and discard. Cut okra in quarters.
  
  Add okra, corn, chicken stock and tomatoes to eggplant mixture. Break
  up tomatoes with a spoon. Stir in rice, cover and simmer gently 25
  minutes or until vegetables and rice are tender.
  
  Add shrimp to mixture and heat through 5 minutes, stirring
  ocasionally. Season with salt and pepper. Garnish with dill sprigs,
  if desired.
  
  VARIATION: Stir in 2/3 cup half-and-half and heat through just before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dhal
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Brown lentils
  3 3/4 c  Water
      1 ts Turmeric
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      2 tb Ghee
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      1 ts Garam Masala
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
           Fresh cilantro sprigs (opt)
 
  Wash lentils in cold water.
  
  In a saucepan, combine lentils, water, turmeric and garlic. Cover and
  simmer 30 minutes or until lentils are tender. Uncover and cook 2-3
  minutes to reduce excess liquid.
  
  Heat ghee in a saucepan. Add onion and fry gently 5 minutes. Add Garam
  Masala, ginger, coriander and cayenne pepper; cook gently 1 minute.
  Add mixture to lentils and stir well. Garnish with cilantro, if
  desired.
  
  NOTE: For a less fiery flavor, reduce cayenne pepper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Spareribs
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Pork spareribs
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 tb Tomato paste
      2 pn Five Spice Powder
      3 tb Honey
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1    Piece ginger root, peeled,
           -grated (1/2")
    1/2 c  Unsweetened orange juice
    1/4 ts Mustard powder
           Orange peel (opt)
 
  Preheat oven to 375'F. (190'C.). Cut ribs in single portions and
  arrange in a single layer in a roasting pan.
  
  Mix remaining ingredients in a bowl until thoroughly combined. Spoon
  approiximately 1/2 of the sauce over ribs and bake in preheated oven
  30 minutes.
  
  Increase oven temperature to 400'F. (205'C.). Turn ribs and spoon
  remaining sauce over ribs. Bake 50-60 minutes, basting and turning
  frequently until ribs are glazed and rich golden brown. Garnish with
  orange peel, if desired, and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Deviled Camembert
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Pieces fairly firm Camembert
           -cheese (1.5 oz)
      2 ts All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Dried mixed herbs
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
      4 pn Cayenne pepper
           Vegetable oil for frying
           Fresh sage sprigs (opt)
           Fresh rosemary sprigs (opt)
           Fresh thyme sprigs (opt)
 
  Wrap and freeze cheese 1 hour.
  
  On a plate, combine flour, mustard, herbs and pepper. Dredge each
  piece of cheese thoroughly with mixture, then dip into egg. In small
  bowl, mix bread crumbs with chili powder and cayenne pepper. Coat
  dipped cheese portions in mixture, pressing on firmly with palms of
  hands.
  
  Half fill a deep-fat fryer or saucepan with oil. Heat to 375'F.
  (190'C.) or until a 1/2" cube of day-old bread browns in 40 seconds.
  Fry cheese about 30 seconds or until golden brown. Drain on paper
  towels. Garnish with sage, rosemary and thyme sprigs, if desired, and
  serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Mayonnaise Indienne
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Hard-boiled eggs
      1 cn Tuna, drained, flaked
           -(3.5 oz)
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      4    Cocktail gherkins, chopped
      3 tb Half and half
      2 ts Tomato paste
  1 1/2 ts Curry Powder
           Paprika
           Fresh Italian parsley
           -sprigs (opt)
 
  Cut eggs in half lengthwise and carefully remove yolks.
  
  Put yolks into a bowl. Mix in tuna, 2 tablespoons of mayonnaise, salt,
  pepper and gherkins. Divide mixture evenly between egg white halves
  and fill hollows. Smooth tops to form neat mounds.
  
  In a bowl, mix remaining mayonnaise, half and half, tomato paste and
  Curry Powder; season with salt. Mix until smooth. Spoon mixture over
  prepared eggs to coat completely. Garnish with paprika and parsley
  sprigs, if desired. Serve chilled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deviled Smelt
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 oz Smelt, thawed if frozen
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1    Finely grated lemon peel
           Vegetable oil for frying
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           Lemon wedges
           Lemon peel strips (opt)
           Fresh dill sprig (opt)
 
  Rinse smelt under cold running water. Pat dry on paper towels.
  
  In a plastic bag, combine flour, salt, mustard, cayenne pepper,
  paprika and lemon peel. Add smelt and shake well until fish are
  evenly coated. Half fill a deep-fat fryer or saucepan with oil; heat
  to 375'F. (190'C.) or until a 1/2" cube of day-old bread browns in 40
  seconds.
  
  Place 1/2 of smelt in a frying basket. Lower basket gradually into
  hot oil and fry 1 minute, shaking basket frequently. Drain on paper
  towels. Reheat oil to 375'F. (190'C.). Repeat with remaining smelt.
  Place all of smelt into basket and fry 1-2 minutes more or until
  lightly golden and crisp. Drain on paper towels. Turn into a warm
  serving dish, sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve hot with lemon
  wedges. Garnish with lemon peel strips and dill sprigs, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Shrimp Toasts
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Cooked peeled medium-size
           -shrimp, thawed if frozen
      1    Piece ginger root, peeled,
           -grated (3/4")
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1    Egg white
      3 pn Five Spice Powder
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      4    Thin slices white bread,
           -crusts removed
      3 tb Sesame seeds
           Vegetable oil for shallow
           -frying
           Green onion daisies
 
  Drain shrimp well on paper towels.
  
  Mince shrimp finely. In a bowl, mix shrimp with ginger, garlic and
  cornstarch. Lightly whisk egg white with a fork (just enough to make
  frothy) and add to shrimp. Stir in Five Spice Powder, salt and
  pepper; mix well.
  
  Press shrimp mixture evenly and firmly onto slices of bread. Sprinkle
  with sesame seeds and press on firmly. Heat 3/4" oil in a large
  skillet. Lower slices of bread, shrimp-side down, into hot oil and
  fry 2-3 minutes or until golden brown. Keep slices immersed in oil.
  Drain on paper towels. Cut into fingers and garnish with green onion
  daisies.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mulligatawny Soup
 Categories: Appetizer, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Corn oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2    Stalks celery, sliced thinly
      3    Carrots, diced
  1 1/2 tb Curry Powder
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      5 c  Chicken stock
      2 tb Long grain white rice
      2    Tomatoes, peeled, chopped
      8 oz Cooked chicken, diced
      1 sm Cooking apple, peeled,
           -cored, diced
           Salt to taste
           Fresh celery leaves (opt)
           Carrot strip (opt)
 
  Heat butter and oil in a saucepan.
  
  Add onion, celery and carrots; cook gently 5 minutes. Stir in Curry
  Powder and flour and cook 1 minute. Stir in stock and bring to a
  boil; add rice and stir well.
  
  Cover and simmer 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add tomatoes,
  chicken, apple and salt. Cover again and simmer 15 minutes. Garnish
  with celery leaves and carrot strip, if desired, and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Satay
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Corn oil
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
    1/2 ts Hot chili powder
  1 1/2 ts Curry Powder
  1 1/4 c  Water
    2/3 c  Crunchy peanut butter
      1 ts Light brown sugar
      2 ts Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
      1 lb Boneless sirloin steak
           Lemon pieces (opt)
           Fresh cilantro sprigs (opt)
 
  To make peanut sauce, heat 2 tablespoons of oil in a saucepan. Add
  onion and garlic and fry gently until golden.
  
  Stir in chili powder, Curry Powder, water, peanut butter and brown
  sugar. Bring to a boil; simmer gently until thickened. Stir in soy
  sauce and lemon juice, then salt and pepper. Turn mixture into a
  serving dish.
  
  Preheat broiler. Grease a broiler pan. Trim and cut meat in 1/2"
  cubes. Thread (not too tightly) onto 8 bamboo skewers, leaving a
  space at each end for holding. Cover ends with small pieces of foil
  to prevent burning. Place skewers in greased broiler pan. Brush with
  remaining 1 tablespoon oil. Cook under preheated broiler 10-15
  minutes until golden and cooked through. Turn and brush frequently
  with oil during cooking. Garnish with lemon pieces and cilantro
  sprigs, if desired, and serve hot with peanut sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piquant Salmon Rolls
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Cream cheese
    1/4 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1 tb Chopped fresh chives
      1    Stalk celery, chopped
      3 ts Lemon juice
      3 pn Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
      8    Thin slices smoked salmon
      8    Thin slices whole-wheat
           -bread
           Butter
      8    Thin slices cucumber
           Fresh ground pepper
           Fresh dill sprigs (opt)
           Chives (opt)
 
  In a bowl, soften cream cheese and stir in walnuts, chives and celery.
  
  Add 2 teaspoons of lemon juice and spices and mix well. Spread cream
  cheese mixture on each slice of salmon and season with pepper. Roll
  up to form neat rolls.
  
  Toast slices of bread and cut 8 (2.5") rounds, using a biscuit cutter.
  Spread thinly with butter. Place a cucumber slice on each bread round
  and place a salmon roll on top of each cucumber. Drizzle with
  remaining lemon juice and garnish with dill sprigs and chives, if
  desired.
  
  NOTE: Salmon rolls can be prepared several hours in advance and
  refrigerated. Toast bases, however, and better freshly made. Once
  assembled, serve within 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Beef Stew
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Oil
      2    Parsnips, diced
      2    Stalks celery, diced
      1    Onion chopped
      1    28 oz can crushed tomatoes
    3/4 c  Beef broth
    1/2 ts Thyme, crushed
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 lb Chuck stew meat
      2    Turnips, dices
      1    Carrot, diced
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    3/4 c  Red wine
    1/4 ts Rosemary, crushed
      1    10 oz pkg frozen succotash
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
      In a large saucepan, heat oil over medium high heat.  Coat the
  beef chunks with flour then add to the oil and cook, turning, until
  browned. Remove and set aside.  Add next 6 ingredients to saucepan;
  saute 5 minutes. Return beef to saucepan.  Add tomatoes, and next 5
  ingredients.  Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat cover and simmer until
  meat is tender, about 45 minutes. Add succotash, salt and pepper.
  Cook until heated through.
      Serve over rice or noodles.
  
  This is from one of my MIL's clippings from Women's Day.  Date unknown
  
  Shared by Robert Rostrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prawns and Spinach Salad
 Categories: Salad, Seafood, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Jumbo prawns
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
    1/4 c  Rice vinegar
      2 tb Sesame oil
      1 tb Minced fresh ginger
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Soy sauce
      1 ts Finely shredded orange peel
      3 sm Oranges (about 1 lb total)
  3 1/2    Quarts bite-sized pieces sps
      1 lg Bell pepper, cut into thin
           - slivers
 
  Peel shrimp and devein.  To butterfly, cut down back of each prawn
  almost but not completely through; rinse and pat dry.  Mix sherry,
  vinegar, oil, ginger, sugar, soy sauce and peel.  Combine 2
  tablespoons of mixture with shrimp; cover and chill at least 30
  minutes or up to 1 hour.  Reserve remaining mixture.  Cut and peel
  membranes off oranges.  Thinly slice fruit crosswise, then cut slices
  in hal crosswise.  In a large bowl, combine oranges, spinach and bell
  pepper.  Cover and chill up to 1 hour. Spread shrimp out flat or
  grill over solid bed of hot coals (you can hold your hand at gril
  level only 2 to 3 seconds); cook, turning once, until opaque in
  thickest part (cut to test),about 3 minutes total.  Add shrimp and
  reserved dressing to spinach mixture, mix lightly.  Place equal
  portions on 4 dinner plates.
  
  Serves 4
  
  Per Serving: 247 calories, Protein 24 g, Carbohydrates 19 g,
  Cholesterol 159 mg, sodium 283 meg.
  
  SOURCE: Safeway's nutritional awareness program; shared by Cate
  Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grandma Vanicek's Czechoslovakian Liverballs
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken liver
      5 sl Bread
      1 md Onion
           Parsley
      1    Egg
      6 tb All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    3/4 ts Marjoram
      2    Cloves garlic
           Garlic powder to taste
 
  These liverballs are cooked in chicken soup.
  
  In food processor, combine: liver, onion, parsley and egg.  Process
  until smooth.  Add salt, pepper, marjoram, flour and bread crumbs.
  Refrigerate for two hours til cold and firmish.  Cook.
  
  To cook: In boiling chicken broth, drop liver from large tablespoon.
  When last ball enters broth, return broth to boil, reduce to simmer,
  cover pot and simmer 10 minutes.
  
  SOURCE: This is a Czechoslovakian dish my Grandmother Vanicek taught
  me when I was a little girl.  It was traditionally served at holiday
  meals.
  
  Shared by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Sesame Beef Stir-Fry
 Categories: Main dish, Beef, Herbs/spice, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Tender boneless beef, such
           - as sirloin, cut crosswise
           - into scant 1/4 inch slices
  1 1/2 tb Sesame seeds
      1 lg Broccoli stalk
    1/2    Yellow bellpepper, thinly sl
    1/2 c  Canned beef broth
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Ginger, peeled, minced
      1 lg Garlic clove
      1 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Dried crushed red pepper
      3 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Combine beef strips with 1-1/2 tablespoons sesame seeds in small
  bowl. Toss to coat well.  Cut florets off broccoli stalk.  Peel stalk
  and thinly slice crosswise.  Combine broccoli florets and stalk with
  yellow pepper in medium bowl.  Stir broth, soy sauce, ginger, garlic,
  cornstarch, and crushed red pepper in small bowl until cornstarch
  dissolves.
  
  Heat 1-1/2 tablespoons oil in wok or heavy large skillet over high
  heat. Add beef and stir-fry until brown, about 2 minutes.  Using
  slotted spoon, transfer beef to plate.  Heat remaining 1-1/2
  tablespoons oil in wok.  Add broccoli and peppers and cover wok.  Add
  beef and accumulated juices from plate.  Simmer until sauce thickens,
  stirring occasionally, about 1 minute. Transfer beef mixture to
  platter.  Sprinkle with toasted sesame seeds if desired and serve.
  
  SOURCE: January 1992, Bon Appetit.
  
  Shared by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bon Appetit's Strawberry Bread
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Bread, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    10-oz. package frozen
           - strawberries, in syrup,
           - thawed, undrained
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Oil
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Baking soda
 
  Preheat oven to 325-degrees F.
  
  Puree strawberries in blender or processor.  Combine eggs and oil in
  small bowl and wisk thoroughly.  Sift remaining ingredients into
  large bowl. Make well in center.  Pour in eggs and puree and blend
  well using wooden spoon. Pour into 9x5-inch loaf pan.  Bake until
  tester inserted in center comes out clean.  About 1 hour and 10
  minues.  Cool.
  
  SOURCE: Bon Appetit magazine; shared by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Candy: M&m Christmas Ornaments
 Categories: Candy, Dessert, Holiday
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------TREE ORNAMENTS----------------------------
           Plastic wrap
           Pkg.'s M&M's
           Pipe Cleaner
           Ribbon

MMMMM----------------------CHRISTMAS WREATH---------------------------
           Same ingredients as ornament
           - but also a wire coat
           - hanger
 
  TREE ORNAMENTS: Cut plastic wrap into 6-inch squares.  Gather corners
  and twist tightly.  Secure with pipe cleaner.  Cluster individual
  balls into one large one, connecting each ball with the adjoining
  pipe cleaner.  Tie "curling" ribbon around the cluster to form a loop
  at the tops.  Tie two 10-inch strands of ribbon at the bottom and
  curl.  Hang on the tree with the loop ends.
  
  M&M CANDY WREATH: Make cluster balls the same way as the candy tree
  ornament clusters, using plain or peanut M&M's.  Form a circle from a
  wire coat hanger, the hook forms the hanging loop.  Attach cluster
  balls to the hanger with pipe cleaners.  Tie a large bow at the top
  of the wreatn.
  
  Shared by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Stuff-A-Roni with Cheese Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Poultry, Cheese/eggs, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped cooked
           - chicken or turkey
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/4 c  Minced parsley (optional)
    1/4 ts Ground thyme
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
    1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
      1 c  Grated cheddar cheese, med.
    1/4 c  Dry white wine - or gravy
           Salt and pepper to taste

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Flour
      3 c  Chicken broth - I use
           - homemade gravy instead
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Grated Cheddar Cheese
    1/4 ts Tobasco
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  In bowl, combine filling ingredients; salt and pepper to taste
  
  In Saucepan, melt butter, add flour.  Stir in broth and milk; cook
  until thickened, stirring frequently.  Add remaining ingredients.
  
  Fill Stuff-a-roni.
  
  Cover bottom of 2 quart baking dish with 1 cup cheese sauce.  Arrange
  filled stuff-a-roni in single layer in baking dish.  Cover with
  remaining sauce.
  
  Cover dish with foil and bake at 375-degrees F., for one hour; or
  cover dish with waxed paper and microwave 30 minutes turning once.
  
  Note: I usually make this dish after Thanksgiving.  I freeze left over
  turkey and gravy, and then later, when turkey seems like a treat
  again, I make the Stuff-a-roni.  I do not use the wine; in it's place
  I use turkey gravy, and when it calls for broth, I also use a fair
  portion of turkey gravy.
  
  SHARED by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tropic Sun Spareribs
 Categories: Main dish, Pork, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Spareribs, or country-style
           - pork ribs
      3 lg Cloves garic, pressed
      1 lg Can (20-oz.) Dole crushed
           - pineapple, undrained
      1 lg Onion
      1    Bottle (12-oz.) chili sauce
    1/2 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 ts Ground giner
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
 
  Rub ribs with garlic.  Sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Arrange onion
  in large baking pan.  Place ribs on top.  Add 1/4 cup water to pan.
  Cover with foil.  Bake in 350-degrre F. oven 1/2 hour.  Combine
  remainig ingredients.  Spoon over ribs.  Bake, uncovered, one hour
  longer.  S
  
  Serves 4
  
  SOURCE: Dole's Quick 'N Easy Recipes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian: Olive Garden Shrimp Cristoforo
 Categories: Main dish, Italian, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------BASIL BUTTER-----------------------------
      2 oz Fresh basil leaves (about
           - 2 bunches
     10 oz Butter, softened
           - (2-1/2 cubes)
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper
      3 tb Grated parmesan cheese plus
           - additonal for garnish
      1 tb Grated romano cheese

MMMMM------------------------REST OF DISH-----------------------------
      1 lb Fresh Linguine or angel
           - hair pasta
      1 lb Medium shrimp, shelled
 
  Remove any large stems from basil and wash leaves.  Shake off excess
  water and dry with paper towel.
  
  Place in food processor; ith blade attachment process until finely
  chopped. Process in two batches if necessary to get a uniformly
  chopped basil. Remove from processor and reserve.
  
  Place butter in small mixer bowl.  Using an electric mixer, whip
  butter until pliable.  Add garlic, salt, pepper, parmesan and romano
  cheeses, and basil; mix unitol well incorporated.  Basil butter can
  be used immediately or stored covered in refrigerator for 3 to 4 days.
  
  Cook pasta according to directions, drain well and keep warm.  Melt
  basil butter in large skillet over medium heat.  Add shrimp and
  saute' just until done, about 2 to 3 minutes.  Serve over hot cooked
  pasta.  Pass freshly grated parmesan cheese.
  
  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  
  SOURCE: General Mills' Olive Garden Restaurant Chain.
  
  Shared by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dessert: Cherry Oat Dessert Squares
 Categories: Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
      1 c  Quick oats
    1/2 c  (1 stick) margarine, soft.
    3/4    All-pourpose flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 cn Wilderness cherry or light
           - cherry pie filling-21-oz.
 
  Preheat oven to 400-degrees.
  
  In large mixing bowl mix sugar, nuts, oats, margarine and flour until
  crumbly.  Reserve 1-1/2 cups.  Press remainder into bottom of 9-inch
  square baking dish.  Stir cinnamon into cherry filling.  Spread over
  crust. sprinkle reserved crumbs over top, pressing lightly.  Bake for
  20 to 25 minutes or until lightly browned.  Cool.  Cut into squares.
  
  SOURCE: Wilderness Pie Filling; shared by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange-Pepper Steaks - 20 Minutes
 Categories: Main dish, Beef, Meat, Fruit, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Beef tenderloin steaks, cut
           - 1 inch thick
      2 ts Coarse grind black pepper
    1/2 c  Orange marmalade
      4 ts Cider vinegar
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
 
  Press pepper evenly into both sides of beef steaks.  Place on rack in
  broiler pan so surface of meat is 2 to 3 inches from the heat.
  Combine marmalade, vinegar and ginger.  Brush top of steaks with half
  of marmalade mixture.  Broil steaks 10 to 15 minutes for rare
  (140-degrees F.) to medium (160-degree F.), turning once and brushing
  with remaining marmalade mixture.  Four servings.  Serving
  suggestion.  Steamed new potatoes and microwaved asparagus and baby
  carrots.
  
  SOURCE: Better Homes and Gardens, September 1992; shared by Cate
  Vanicek.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ravioli with Broccoli Sauce
 Categories: Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      4    Garlic Cloves; chopped
           Salt and Pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Dried Red Pepper Flakes
      1 c  Heavy Cream
  1 1/2 lb Broccoli
    3/4 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese *
     15 oz Frozen Ricotta Ravioli
 
   * Substitute Romano Cheese if desired Heat oil in medium saucepan.
  Add garlic, salt, pepper and red pepper. Saute until garlic is
  lightly browned, 5-7 mins. Add cream; cook 20 min. to thicken,
  stirring occasionally. Meanwhile, cut broccoli into 1-1/2"
  flowerettes. Place in separate pan, cover with water and cook until
  tender, drain and set aside. Add cheese to sauce mixture, stir to
  blend. Prepare broccoli as directed, drain. Add broccoli to sauce and
  pour over ravioli.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Parmigiana
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Chicken Breasts *
      1 cn ITALIAN Tomato Sauce **
      2 tb Olive Oil
           Mozzarella Cheese
           Parmesan Cheese
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
   * Boneless and skinless ** Contadina or Hunts Put olive oil in a hot,
  heavy skillet. Place chicken in skillet and brown for 2-3 mins on
  each side (longer if chicken is thicker). After they are browned,
  remove them from skillet and drain on paper towel. Pour out any
  excess oil in the pan (there shouldn't be much if any!). Pour the
  tomato sauce in the skillet and heat it until it is gently bubbling.
  Return chicken to the pan and allow to cook for 2-3 mins more,
  turning chicken to coat well. Sprinkle mozzarella and parmesan cheese
  all over the top and cover skillet. Allow this to cook until cheese
  begins to melt. Serve alone or over spaghetti or linguine.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lasagna Maria
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk (8oz) Lasagna Noodles
      1 lb Mild Pork Sausage
      1    Jar (32oz) Spaghetti Sauce
      1    Egg; slightly beaten
     12 oz Ricotta Cheese
      1 tb Dried Parsley Flakes
    1/2 ts Dried Whole Oregano
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
      3 c  Mozzarella Cheese *
  4 1/2 oz Sliced Mushrooms, drained
      1 pk (3 1/2oz) Sliced Pepperoni
 
   * Shredded and divided Cook Lasagna noodles according to package
  directions, omitting salt, and then drain. Cook sausage until browned,
  Stirring to crumble; drain. Stir spaghetti sauce into sausage, and set
  aside. Combine egg and next five ingredients, stirring well. Spread
  about 1/2 cup meat sauce in a lightly greased 13x9x2" baking dish.
  Layer half of the noodles, half of ricotta cheese mixture, one-third
  of mozzarella cheese, and one-third of remaining meat sauce; repeat
  layers using equal amounts. Arrange mushrooms and pepperoni slices on
  top. Bake at 375 for 20 mins. Sprinkle with remaining cheese, and
  bake an additional five mins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli and Noodles Parmesan
 Categories: Pasta, Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Broccoli
      2 tb Butter or Margarine
    1/2 c  Chopped Onion
      1 md Clove Garlic; minced
      1 cn Campbell's Soup *
    1/2 ts Dried Basil Leaf; crushed
      1 c  Monterey Jack Cheese **
    1/2 c  Parmesan Cheese; grated
      1 c  Sour Cream
      5 c  Cooked Wide Egg Noodles ***
 
  * 10-3/4 Condensed Cream of Mushroom ** Shredded *** 5 cups BEFORE
  cooking Cut broccoli into bite-size pieces. In covered 4-qt saucepan
  over medium heat, in 1" boiling water, cook broccoli 6 mins or until
  tender. Drain in colander. In same saucepan over medium heat, in hot
  butter, cook onion and garlic until onion is tender, stirring
  occasionally. Stir in soup and basil; mix well. Add cheeses, stirring
  until melted. Stir in sour cream, broccoli and cooked noodles. Pour
  into 2-qt casserole. Cover; bake at 350F for 30 mins or until bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Chicken Cacciatore
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
    1/2 ts Crushed Red Pepper
      2 lb Boneless Chicken Breasts *
    1/2 lb Thickly Sliced Mushrooms
           Jar Ragu Spaghetti Sauce **
      2 lg Sweet Peppers ***
      1 lg Green Pepper ****
    3/4 ts Dried Thyme; crushed
      2 tb Red Wine Vinegar
           Hot cooked spaghetti or
           - linguini
 
  * Cut into thin strips ** 48oz Old World Style or use home made ***
  Red or Yellow; cut into thin strips **** Cut into thin strips
  
  Heat olive oil and red pepper in a Dutch oven on medium-high heat. Add
  chicken and saute 5 mins. or until golden brown. Remove chicken from
  oven with a slotted spoon; set aside. Add mushrooms; saute 4 to 5
  mins or until tender. Stir in spaghetti sauce, peppers, thyme,
  vinegar and chicken; bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer 8 to 10
  mins or until peppers are just tender, stirring occasionally. Serve
  over spaghetti or linguini.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homestyle Lasagna Rolls
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground Beef
      1 c  Fresh Mushrooms; chopped
      1 md Onion; finely chopped
      1 sm Carrot; minced
           Clove Garlic; minced
    1/4 c  Dry Red Wine
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
      2 c  (8oz) Mozzarella Cheese *
           Egg; lightly beaten
    1/4 c  Parmesan Cheese
           Jar Ragu Spaghetti Sauce **
    3/4 pk Lasagna Noodles ***
           Salt and Pepper to taste
 
  * Shredded ** 28 oz Jar - Slow-Cooked Homestyle *** (3.4 of a 16oz
  package) Cooked and drained
  
  Preheat oven to 350. In a large skillet, thoroughly brown ground
  beef; drain fat. Add mushrooms, onion, carrot and garlic; saute until
  vegetables are tender. Add wine, nutmeg, cayenne pepper, salt and
  pepper; cook until wine is almost evaporated. Remove from heat; allow
  to cool 10 to 15 mins. In a medium bowl, thoroughly combine meat
  mixture, mozzarella cheese, egg and 1 tbls Parmesan cheese. Pour 1/2
  jar spaghetti sauce evenly in a 13x9" baking dish. Evenly spread 1/3
  cup meat filling over length of each lasagna noodle. Carefully roll
  up noodle. Place SEAM SIDE DOWN in baking dish. Repeat with remaining
  noodles. Bake, covered, 40 mins. Uncover, sprinkle with 3 tbls
  Parmesan cheese. Bake 5 mins or until bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti Florentine
 Categories: Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           (15oz) Jar spaghetti sauce
      4 oz Spaghetti **
      1 pk Frozen chopped spinach *
  1 1/2 c  Cottage cheese
      1 pk (6oz) Mozzarella cheese slic
    1/3 c  Grated parmesan cheese
 
  * 10oz, thawed and drained ** Cooked and drained Combine sauce and
  spaghetti, toss lightly. Combine cottage cheese and 1/4 c parmesan
  cheese, mix well. Place half the spaghetti mixture in a 10"x6" baking
  dish; cover with spinach, cottage cheese and half the mozzarella
  cheese. Top with remaining spaghetti mixture. Cut remaining
  mozzarella cheese into 1/2" strips; arrange on top of spaghetti
  mixture to form a lattice design. Sprinkle with remaining parmesan
  cheese. Bake at 350 for 30 mins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Hamburgers
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Onion; finely minced
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      1 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
      1 ts Ground coriander
      2 lb Ground beef
      4    Toasted hamburger buns
      4 sl Red onion (thin slices)
      4 sl Tomato
           Ketchup
           Mustard
           Mayonnaise
 
  COMBINE OIL AND ONION in a small skillet over medium heat and cook,
  stirring, about 4 minutes, or until onions soften. Add garlic, pepper,
  nutmeg and coriander and continue to cook another minute. Scrape the
  onion mixture into a mixing bowl, add the beef and mix well. Form 4
  patties, place on a plate, cover and refrigerate for 20 minutes.
  Place a large, heavy skillet on the stove over high heat. When it is
  nearly smoking, add the hamburger patties. Cook 2 minutes. Turn the
  patties and cook on the other side until desired doneness, about 1
  minute for very rare, 4 minutes for medium-well. Arrange burgers on
  hamburger buns and garnish each with a slice of onion and tomato.
  Offer ketchup, mustard and mayonnaise.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Scampi
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil
     12    Jumbo shrimp
           - peeled and deveined
      2 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Red pepper flakes
           -more to taste
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb White wine
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  HEAT THE OIL IN A MEDIUM SKILLET over medium heat and add the
  shrimps. Cook about 4 minutes. Add the garlic, pepper flakes, lemon
  juice, wine and salt. Cover and cook 3 minutes. Uncover and beat in
  the butter. Remove from heat and mix in the parsley.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Split Pea Soup with Sorrel
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Sweet butter
      2 md Onions; roughly diced
      1 md Carrot; roughly diced
      2    Celery stalks; roughly diced
      1 ts Finely minced garlic
  1 1/2 c  Dry split peas
      6 c  Chicken stock or water
           -OR low-sodium chicken broth
      1 sm Ham hock; -=OR=-
      6 oz -Cooked ham or bacon
      1    Lemon, cut in half
      3 bn Fresh sorrel
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Salt and pepper; to taste
 
  IN A STOCK POT, over low heat, melt the butter and add the onion,
  carrot, celery and garlic. Let the vegetables cook, stirring, until
  limp, about 15 minutes, being careful not to brown. Add the split
  peas, stock, ham hock and lemon and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat
  to low and simmer for 30 minutes, or until the peas are completely
  soft. Remove the ham hock and the lemon. Add the sorrel and cream.
  Transfer to a food processor or blender and puree until smooth.
  Strain through a fine sieve. Taste for salt and pepper and adjust as
  desired. Serve this soup piping hot or well chilled.
  
  NOTE: If the soup is chilled, thin it with an additional cup of stock,
  low-sodium broth or water.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stewed Pork with Pickles
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lb Pork shoulder; fat trimmed
           -cut into 1-in cubes
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 md Onion
           -peeled and roughly chopped
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Dry white wine
    1/4 c  Tarragon vinegar
      4 c  All-purpose broth
           -OR low-sodium chicken broth
      2    Bay leaves
      4    Sprigs fresh thyme; -=OR=-
 
  >>> Continued to next message
  
   * SLMR 2.1a * Puns are bad, but poetry is verse.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Cabbage
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 lg Cabbage leaves
    1/2 c  Dry bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Milk or chicken broth
      1    Onion; finely minced
      1 tb Butter or lard
      1 tb Thyme
      1    Egg
      1 lb Ground meat
           -(beef, veal, pork
           - or a combination)
           Salt and pepper; as desired
      1 c  Canned tomatoes; chopped
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Flour
 
  TO SEPARATE THE CABBAGE leaves, bring a pot of salted water to a boil
  and plunge in a whole head of cabbage. As soon as the water returns
  to the boil, drain the cabbage. Carefully remove the outer leaves.
  Combine the bread crumbs and milk in a large work bowl and set aside.
  Cook the onion in the butter until soft and add it to the bread
  crumbs. Add the thyme, egg, ground meat, salt and pepper and mix
  well. Place a cabbage leaf on a work surface and place a heaping
  tablespoon or 2 of stuffing in the center. Roll up the cabbage to
  enclose the stuffing. Pack the stuffed leaves into a lidded
  casserole. Place in preheated 350F oven and bake for 1 hour.
  
  Meanwhile, mix the tomatoes, flour and sour cream together. Pour this
  over the cabbage, replace the cover and cook another 15 minutes.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Prawns
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      8    Giant prawns
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Minced onions
      1 tb Minced garlic
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs
      1 tb Chopped parsley
    1/4 lb Smoked salmon
      2    Egg whites
    1/3 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Unsalted butter
 
  PEEL THE PRAWNS. Using a small knife, make a deep slit down the back.
  Remove and discard the vein and set 6 prawns aside in the
  refrigerator. Heat the olive oil in a small skillet over medium heat,
  add the onion and garlic and cook, stirring, 2 minutes. Remove from
  heat and scrape into a food processor. Add the bread crumbs, parsley,
  smoked salmon, 2 leftover prawns and egg white to the blender and
  blend until smooth. Scrape the mixture into a small bowl. Remove the
  prawns from the refrigerator and lay them flat on a work surface.
  Spoon some stuffing into each prawn and lightly press the sides
  together around the stuffing. Preheat a broiler. Arrange stuffed
  prawns in a small ovenproof dish, pour in the wine and place under
  the broiler for about 4 minutes or until prawns and stuffing are
  completely opaque in color. Remove from the broiler and transfer the
  prawns to a serving plate. Stir the butter into remaining liquid in
  the broiling pan and pour over the prawns. Serve immediately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-Dried Tomato-Noodle Pudding
 Categories: Side dish, Cheese/eggs, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
 
  >>> Continued to next message
  
   * SLMR 2.1a * Puns are bad, but poetry is verse.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sundried Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chopped tomatoes
           - (peeled and seeded)
      2 oz Dried tomatoes
           - roughly chopped
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Olive oil
      6 tb Unsalted butter
 
  Dried tomatoes can be stored in an airtight container for a very long
  time and should be plumped in a little warm water before using.
  
  IN A SMALL SAUCEPAN over medium heat, combine chopped tomatoes, sun
  dried tomatoes, garlic, wine and olive oil. Cook, uncovered, for 5
  minutes or until wine evaporates and mixture begins to thicken
  slightly. Remove from heat and whisk in butter. Transfer to a blender
  and blend until chunky smooth.
  
  Makes 1 Cup, Serves 4
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Surf and Turf Chili
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Seafood, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2    Recipe chili base
           -(See RECIPE)
      1 ts Vegetable oil
    1/2 lb Skirt or flank steak
      3    Garlic cloves; finely minced
    1/8 ts Ground allspice
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
           -OR low-sodium chicken broth
      8    Jumbo shrimp
           - peeled and deveined
           Salt; as desired
    1/2 bn Cilantro; chopped
     12    Corn tortillas
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  PREPARE OR DEFROST chili base. Heat the oil in a Dutch oven over high
  heat on top of the stove. Add the steak and brown well on both sides.
  Pour off the fat and add the chili base, garlic, allspice and stock.
  Bring to a boil and place, covered, in the oven. Turn oven to 325F
  and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 hours or until the steak is falling apart.
  Add the shrimp, return to the oven and cook, uncovered, another 10 to
  12 minutes. Taste for salt and add if desired. Using a fork, shred
  the steak with the other chili ingredients. Arrange the chili on a
  serving platter or in individual bowls and sprinkle with chopped
  cilantro. Serve with warm tortillas instead of bread and pass sour
  cream on the side.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Pea Guacamole
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Virgin olive oil
      2 tb Fresh lime juice
    1/4 bn Cilantro
           - trimmed of long stems
      1    Jalapeno pepper; seeded, -OR
      2    -Serrano peppers, seeded
      1 lb Frozen peas; defrosted
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 md Red onion; finely diced
 
  COMBINE OIL, LIME JUICE, cilantro and pepper in a blender or food
  processor and blend until cilantro and peppers are roughly pureed.
  Add peas, cumin and salt and blend until smooth. There will still be
  some lumps, but this adds to the textural interest of the guacamole.
  Scrape into a mixing bowl and add the diced red onion.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato and Ham Hash
 Categories: Main dish, Breakfast
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Sweet potato (about 1 lb)
      1 lb Ham
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
      1 ts Salt
      6 tb Butter or margarine
      8    Poached eggs
      4 tb Sour cream
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 250F. Wash but don't peel the sweet potato. Shred
  potato on fine blade of a shredder or food processor. Place in mixing
  bowl and set aside. Finely chop ham; pulse using puree blade of food
  processor. Add ham to the shredded potato. Add salt and pepper and
  mix well. Heat 1 tablespoon butter in a non-stick 6-inch skillet over
  medium heat. Add one-quarter of the potato-ham mixture. Cook about 4
  minutes, pressing down gently to compact the hash as it cooks. Flip
  the hash patty and cook another 5 minutes. Add more butter if
  necessary. Repeat with remaining mixture; add more butter to skillet
  as needed. As each hash patty is done, transfer to oven to keep warm.
  Place 2 poached eggs on each serving. Garnish with a dollop of sour
  cream.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Pancakes
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Unsalted butter; melted
    1/2 c  Cooked sweet potatoes
           - peeled and chopped
           - or roughly mashed
      1    Egg
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 c  Milk (or more)
           Sour cream
 
  PLACE SWEET POTATOES in a mixing bowl, add egg and mix well. Stir in
  the flour and add the baking powder. Add up to 1/3 cup of milk,
  stirring. Stir in 1 tablespoon butter. The mixture should have the
  consistency of thick, lumpy sauce and be able to coat a wooden spoon.
  Place a non-stick or heavy iron skillet over medium heat on top of
  the stove and add 1/2 teaspoon butter. Spoon 3 tablespoons of batter
  per pancake into the skillet and cook until bubbles rise to the
  surface of the pancakes and break, about 1 to 2 minutes. Using a
  spatula, flip the pancakes and cook another 2 minutes. Remove
  pancakes from the skillet and keep warm on a covered plate in the
  oven. Repeat the procedure until all the pancakes are cooked. After
  the first batch is cooked, add as little butter as possible without
  allowing the pancakes to stick to the bottom of the pan. Serve with
  sour cream.
  
  Makes 12 small pancakes.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tarte Alsacienne
 Categories: Dessert, Pie/tart
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------CREAM CHEESE PIE DOUGH------------------------
    1/2 lb Butter
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Half and half
      2    Eggs
      3 c  Thinly sliced, green apples
           - (peeled)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Mace
 
  CREAM BUTTER, CREAM CHEESE and vanilla together in a mixer or
  processor. Reduce speed to low and add the flour. Mix until
  incorporated. Remove the dough from the mixer, form into 3 balls and
  wrap in plastic wrap. Chill for 1 hour before using. Uncooked dough
  can be frozen for up to 2 months. Freeze uncooked balls of dough or
  freeze dough in pie tins.
  
  FILLING: Place a ball of chilled dough on a piece of lightly floured
  wax paper and pound with a rolling pin to flatten and soften. Roll
  the dough into an 11-inch circle, lift it with the wax paper and
  invert onto a 9-inch glass pie dish. Press firmly into the dish and
  gently remove and discard wax paper. Place in refrigerator to chill.
  Preheat oven to 400F. Arrange apples in the pie crust. In a bowl,
  beat together eggs, half-and-half, sugar, vanilla and mace. Pour the
  mixture over the apples. Place the pie in the oven and bake until the
  mixture is set, about 30 minutes. The dough recipe makes about 3
  10-inch pies.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Texas Caviar
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Dried black beans
      1    Ham hock
           Salt and pepper; to taste
      1 tb Oil
      1    Onion
      2    Green peppers
      3    Tomatoes
           - peeled, seeded and chopped
 
  >>> Continued to next message
  
   * SLMR 2.1a * Puns are bad, but poetry is verse.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato, Bread and Pastina Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 c  Chopped Roma tomatoes
           -(peeled and seeded)
           -or canned peeled tomatoes,
           -  chopped
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      3 oz Stale Italian bread
           -or French bread
      2 md Onions; finely diced
      8    Garlic cloves; crushed
      3 tb Fresh marjoram leaves -=OR=-
      2 ts -Dried marjoram leaves
           Salt and pepper; to taste
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      2 c  :Water, -=OR=-
           - the juice from
           - canned tomatoes
      3 tb Pastina
 
  IN A LARGE, DEEP SKILLET over low heat, combine the olive oil, garlic
  and onions and cook, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes, until the
  onions are soft and translucent. Roughly crumble the bread into
  1/4-inch pieces, add it to the skillet and cook, stirring, 1 minute.
  Add the tomatoes, marjoram, salt, pepper, wine and water. Cover and
  cook, stirring occasionally, for 20 minutes. Add the pastina and cook
  an additional 3 minutes. When it's time to serve dinner, pour the
  stew into a large covered serving dish or soup tureen and offer
  grated cheese and additional olive oil on the side.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tortellini Cheese Filling
 Categories: Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 md Onions; roughly chopped
      2 tb Minced garlic
      1 ts Salt; or as desired
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
    1/4 ts Mace
      1 tb Chopped fresh thyme leaves
      1 lb Cottage cheese
      1 lb Hoop, pot or ricotta cheese
      1 lb Mozzarella cheese, grated
           -or shredded
      6    Eggs; lightly beaten
 
  HEAT OIL OVER MEDIUM HEAT in a small pot, add the onions and garlic
  and cook, stirring, 5 minutes. Scrape mixture into a large bowl and
  add the salt, pepper, mace, thyme and three cheeses. Mix well, add
  the eggs and mix to incorporate. Stuffing can be stored, covered, in
  the refrigerator for up to 5 days. To freeze, place 1-cup amounts of
  stuffing in air-tight freezer bags or containers, label and place in
  freezer for up to 3 months.
  
  Makes 6 Cups Filling
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tortellini Meat Filling
 Categories: Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Cooked veal, pork or chicken
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 md Onions; roughly diced
      2 tb Finely minced garlic
      2 tb Chopped fresh oregano leaves
           -=OR=-
      1 tb -Dried oregano
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  All-purpose broth
           -OR low-sodium chicken broth
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Salt; or as desired
 
  DEFROST THE COOKED MEAT, if necessary. Heat oil in a medium skillet
  or fry pan over medium heat. Add onion, garlic, oregano and coriander
  and cook, stirring, 5 minutes. Add the flour and mix well. Add the
  broth and meat and cook, stirring, until the mixture thickens and
  bubbles. Add the salt and pepper. Remove from the heat and scrape
  into a bowl. Place, uncovered, in the refrigerator to cool. Stuffing
  can be stored, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. To
  freeze, place 1-cup amounts of stuffing in airtight freezer bags or
  containers, label and place in freezer for up to 3 months.
  
  Makes 6 Cups Filling
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Sashimi with Orange Glaze
 Categories: Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Ripe plum tomatoes
      2 c  Fresh orange juice
      2 tb Green peppercorns in water
           - drained
    1/2 ts Salt; or as desired
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 lb Fresh tuna;
           - in 1/4-in-thick slices
      2    Oranges; peeled, in sections
 
  CUT OFF TIP AND STEM of tomatoes; remove seeds and core. Slice
  tomatoes into flat slices; lay each slice flat. Cut lengthwise into
  1/4-inch strips, pile strips; cut horizontally in 1/4-inch pieces.
  Reserve on a plate in refrigerator, covered. Chill 4 plates. In a
  small saucepan over medium-high heat, combine juice, 1 tablespoon
  green peppercorns and salt. Bring to boil and reduce until only 2/3
  cup remains. The mixture should be thick and syrupy. Transfer liquid
  to bowl and cool to room temperature. When cool, beat in oil to make
  "glaze." If the mixture has a very shiny appearance and seems like
  it's going to separate, add a few drops of water or orange juice. To
  serve, spoon glaze onto plates. Arrange sliced fish on top. Garnish
  with the orange sections, the remaining tablespoon of green
  peppercorns and the chopped tomato.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey and Cranberry Chili
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Turkey
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2    Recipe chili base
           -(See Separate RECIPE)
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb White vinegar
    1/2 c  Fresh or frozen cranberries
      1 lb Boneless turkey breast
           -in 1-in cubes
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
           -OR low-sodium chicken broth
           Salt; to taste
     12    Tortillas
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  PREPARE OR DEFROST chili base. Combine the sugar and vinegar in a deep
  oven-proof skillet or Dutch oven, bring to a boil and continue to boil
  until the liquid has a syrupy consistency. Add the cranberries and
  cook 1 minute longer. Add the turkey, the chili base and the stock.
  Cover and place in the oven. Turn oven to 325F and cook for 1 1/2
  hours or until turkey falls apart. Remove from oven and, using a
  fork, mash or shred the turkey with the other chili ingredients.
  Serve with warm tortillas instead of bread and pass sour cream on the
  side.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tunisian Eggplant Salad
 Categories: Salad, Fish, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Eggplant
      1 lg Green bell pepper; chopped
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Dried oregano; crushed
      1 ts Salt
      1 cn Chunk-style tuna (12 1/2-oz)
           - drained
      1 lg Tomato; seeded and chopped
           Crisp salad greens
    1/4 c  Crumbled feta cheese
 
  Cut eggplant in 1-inch cubes. Steam over 1/2 cup boiling water 2 to 5
  minutes until eggplant is tender. Drain. Arrange with green pepper in
  2-quart shallow casserole. Combine garlic, oil, vinegar, oregano and
  salt in covered jar. Shake well. Pour over eggplant mixture. Cover and
  refrigerate 1 hour. Drain marinade and reserve for other use. Toss
  marinated vegetables with tuna and tomato. Spoon into salad bowl
  lined with crisp greens. Top with cheese.
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Make-Ahead Sausage Souffle
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Hot bulk pork sausage
      4    Eggs
      3 sl White bread; crumbed
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      1 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
 
  Brown sausage in skillet, stirring to crumble. Drain off fat and set
  sausage aside. Beat eggs until lightly colored. Add bread crumbs,
  milk, salt, dry mustard and sausage. Stir in cheese. Spoon into
  ungreased 1-quart souffle dish. Cover and refrigerate overnight. The
  next day bake at 325F 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until knife inserted
  in center comes out clean. Serve immediately.
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sm-Cake Pockets..cppp71b
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 sl Angel Food Cake; 1" thick
           Margarine or Butter;
           -softened
           ********FILLINGS********
      2 tb Cherry preserves; OR
      2 tb Peach Preserves; OR
    1/4 c  Coconut; mixed with
      1 tb Margarine; OR
     16    Miniature Marshmallows;
           -PLUS
     16    Chocolate Chips; OR
      1 lg Marshmallow; PLUS
      1 ts Sugar; PLUS
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
  Servings:  6
  
  ~PAMELA BONDURANT CPPP71B
  
  Heat sandwich maker as directed.  Brush margarine on top and bottom
  cooking surfaces of sandwich maker.   Assemble cake sandwiches. For
  the chocolate chips and marshmallows, spread margarine on cake, then
  sprinkle with marshmallows and chocolate chips.  For the large
  marshmallow with sugar and cinnamon, cut large marshmallow in half;
  dip into melted margarine. Place 1 half on each of two slices cake.
  Sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon.
  
  Top with remaining cake. Place cake sandwiches side by side on bottom
  cooking surface.  Close lid; latch.  Cook 2 to 3 minutes or until
  golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frecnch Bread Mexi-Melt
 Categories: Sandwich, Tex/mexican, Meat, Beef
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Loaf of French Bread, split
           -2 Onions, slice
 
  Servings:  1
  
  ~ lengthwise                        8 sl American Cheese, halved 1 lb
  Ground beef                              - triangles 1 pk Taco
  seasoning 1 cn Tomato sauce 2 Tomatoes, slice
  
  Brown beef, add tomato sauce, and taco seasoning. Simmer 5 to 20 min.
  Spread mixture on bread.  Top with lay of slice onions, tomatoes and
  cheese. Bake at 375 for 8 - 12 min. until cheese melts.  Cut inot
  peices to serve.  This can be broiled if you like it crispier.
  
  From the Bumgarner Family Recipes submitted by Veronic Bumgarner
  Grabner (This recipe came from Pam, a girl I work with. My son Teddy
  loves it.)
  
  Posted on COOKING echo by Bud Cloyd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frying Pan Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2    Eggs, unbeaten
      1 c  Sugar*
  1 1/2 c  Dates, chopped
           Salt
 
  Servings: 36
  
  Cook over a low heat for 10 minutes, stirring constantly.  Remove from
  stove and add 2 cups of Rice Krispies.
  
  Roll in balls and dip in coconut.
  
  *Would recommend from nil to 1/2 c sugar.  Dates, coconut and Rice
  Krispies supply sufficient sweetener in my opinion.
  
  Source:  Dutch Oven Submitted by: Shirley Goos
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalamaria Parayemista
 Categories: Greek, Seafood, Main dish, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 kg Small squid
    1/2 c  Corn oil
      1 md Onion; finely chopped
    1/2 c  Short-grain rice
    1/2 c  Tomato puree
    1/4 c  Water
      1 sm Cinnamon stick
      2    Cloves
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
 
  Servings:  6
  
  Select squid with hoods about 10-12 cm (4-5 inches) long.
  
  To clean squid, pull off head and attached tentacles.  Cut out eyes
  and beak and discard.  Clean dark skin from head and tentacles by
  pulling it off or rubbing off with a cloth dipped in coarse salt.
  Rinse, chop 3 to 4 into small pieces and keep aside.  Remainder may
  be stored and fried later.
  
  Clean out hood (body) and remove transparent backbone from inside.
  Pull or rub off skin.  Rinse well, drain and dry.
  
  Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a pan and gently fry onion until
  transparent. Stir in rice and stir over heat for 2 minutes.  Add
  tomato puree, water, cinnamon stick, cloves, chopped squid, and salt
  and pepper to taste.  Cover and simmer over low heat for 10 minutes
  or until liquid is absorbed. Remove cinnamon stick and cloves.
  
  Fill hoods with rice mixture, packing it in loosely as rice expands
  and hoods contract during cooking.  Close top with wooden cocktail
  picks or sew with strong thread.
  
  Heat remaining oil in a deep pan and fry squid hoods until lightly
  coloured, turning them frequently.  Reduce heat, add wine, cover and
  simmer gently on low heat for 1 hour or until squid is tender.  Add a
  little water to pan if necessary during cooking.  Serve hot or warm
  as a mezethaki (appetizer).
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook - by Tess Mallos ISBN:
  1-86302 069 1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kruchiy
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sour cream
     12 lg Egg yolks
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  White granulated sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking powder
           White flour
           Vegetable oil
           - for deep frying
           Sugar; for sprinkling
 
  Servings:  1
  
  *(pronounced kroo chi, with the oo like in moon, and i like in fin.)
  
  Combine the first six ingredients. Add enough flour to make a rollable
  dough. Roll flat, 1/2 inch thick. Cut into strips, 1 inch wide and 3-4
  inches long. Tie each strip into a simple knot. Deep fry until golden
  brown. Sprinkle with sugar.
  
  From: csanoy@bcars689.NoSubdomain.NoDomain (Cynthia Sanoy)
  @Newsgroups: rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arkansas Cheescake
 Categories: Dessert, Low-cal/fat, Pie/tart
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Egg, seperated
    1/2 c  Skim milk
      1 pk Gelatin (envelope)
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 tb Equal (no substitute)
  1 1/2 c  Cottage cheese
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Vanilla
      6 tb Lite Coolwhip
 
  Servings:  8
  
  Take cottage cheese and cream in blender until very SMOOTH <this is
  the hardpart>. Set aside. Put egg yolk in top of double boiler beat
  well and add milk. Add gelatin & salt.  Cook overr boiling water
  until gelatin dissolves and mixture thickens. (about 10 minutes)
  Remove from heat, add sugar substitute.  Cool.  Add cottage cheese,
  lemon juice and vanilla to cooled mixture. Chill, stirring
  occasionally, until mixture mounds when dropped from a spoon.  Beat
  egg white until stiff.  Fold egg white and cool-whip together into
  mixture.  Pour into graham crust. Or pour into pie plate and top with
  crumb topping.
  
  Crumb Topping: crush 2 graham crackers fine. Mix with pinch of
  cinnamon and nutmeg.
  
  Calories (without topping or crust): 442 (Whole Pie!) Calories with
  Keebler Graham Crust: 1402 (per serving 175  7 gr fat)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Little Things
 Categories: Dessert, Appetizer, Casserole
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 cn Crescent Rolls
    1/2 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Vanilla (to taste)
           Juice of 1 lemon
      8 oz Cream cheese
 
  Servings: 16
  
  Mix all except rolls together in bowl. Seperate rolls, and roll them
  out thinner (like pie crust). Place 2 - 3 TB of filling in middle of
  long edge. Fold corners up and roll up remaining flap.  Bake at 350 F
  until brown (10-12 minutes).  These are quick, easy and great for
  unexpected company. They look better if you use clear vanilla.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mint Julep
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Mint sprigs
      1 ts Powdered Sugar
      2 ts -Water
  2 1/2 oz Bourbon Whiskey
 
  Servings:  1
  
  ~Robbie Shelton
  
  Into a sliver mug or a 12 oz. Tom Collins glass put: the mint,
  powdered sugar, and water.  Fill the glass with shaved ice, add the
  whiskey and stir gently until glass is frosted.  Decorate with slice
  of orange, lemon, pineapple and a cherry.  Insert 5 or 6 sprigs of
  mint on top.  Serve with straws.
  
  This recipe is from OLD MR. BOSTON DELUXE BARTENDER'S GUIDE".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mint Julep (Southern Style)
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Powdered Sugar
      2 ts -Water
  2 1/2 oz Bourbon Whiskey
 
  Servings:  1
  
  ~Robbie Shelton
  
  Into a silver mug or 12 oz Tom Colling glass, dissolve 1 teaspoon
  powdered sugar with 2 teaspoons of water.  Then fill with finely
  shaved ice and add bourbon whiskey.  Stir until glass is heavily
  frosted adding more ice if necessary.  (Do not hold glass with hand
  while stirring.)  Decorate with 5 or 6 sprigs of fresh mint so that
  the tops are about 2 inches above the rim of mug or glass.  Use short
  straws so that it will be necessary to bury nose in mint.  The mint
  is intended for odor rather than taste.
  
  This recipe is from "OLD MR. BOSTON'S DELUXE BARTENDER'S GUIDE."
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mom's Hot Fudge Pudding (Cake) with Sauce.
 Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Cocoa
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Shortening
      1    Egg
    2/3 c  Milk
           *Sauce*
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Cocoa
      2 tb Water
      2 c  HOT water
 
  Servings:  4
  
  Preheat to 350F
  
  Sift dry ingrediants in a bowl. Cut in shortening. Add egg & milk.
  Stir til flour is moist. Put batter in 9" cake pan. Mix sauce well,
  pour over batter slowly. Bake for 40 min. Serve with milk or cream
  (while warm)
  
  h.peagram
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Tetrazzini
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Microwave, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Chicken Gravy *
      6 oz Spaghetti; cooked & drained
    1/2 c  Light Cream
    1/4 c  Chopped Red Pepper
      2 tb Dry Sherry
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
      1 tb Lemon Juice
  1 1/2 c  Cooked Chicken or Turkey **
      8 oz Fresh Mushrooms; sliced
 
  Servings:  4
  
  * 10-1/2 oz Franco-American ** Cubed In 3 qt microwave casserole, stir
  together chicken gravy, cream, sherry and lemon juice. Cover with lid;
  microwave on HIGH 2 mins or until hot. Stir in mushrooms, spaghetti,
  red pepper and 1/4 cup of the Parmesan cheese. Stir in chicken. Cover;
  microwave on HIGH 7 mins or until heated through, stirring once during
  cooking. Top with remaining cheese. Microwave, uncovered, on HIGH 2
  mins. Let stand, uncovered, 2 mins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rigatoni with Sausage
 Categories: Pasta, Sausage, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Italian Sausage *
    1/4 c  Pepperoncini Peppers **
           Clove Garlic; minced
    1/2 c  Olives; quartered
      2 c  Spaghetti Sauce
      1 c  Grated Cheese (your choice)
    1/4 c  Dry Red Wine or Water
      4 c  Hot Cooked Rigatoni
 
  Servings:  4
  
  * Remove Casing ** Sliced and Drained In 10 qt skillet over medium
  heat, cook sausage until browned, stirring to separate meat. Spoon
  off fat. Add garlic, sauce, wine and peppers. Heat to boiling. Reduce
  heat to low; simmer 5 min, stirring occasionally. Add olives, 1/2 cup
  cheese and rigatoni; toss to coat well. Serve topped with remaining
  cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cate's Guacamole-Tomato Cup Salad
 Categories: Salad, Tex/mexican, Vegetable, Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Tomatoes
      2    Ripe avacados
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 ts Salt
      1 sm Onion, chopped finely
      1 cn Green California chiles,
           - chopped
      1    Bottled wax pepper, chopped
           - very fine
    1/2 ts Wax pepper juice
      4    Bacon slices, crisp-cooked
           - and crumbled
           Bed or lettuce for tomatoes
 
  Servings:  6
  
  Fry 4 slices of bacon until crips, drain on paper towel, then crumble
  bacon.
  
  Remove tomato navel, core tomatoes, scoop out inside centers and chop
  finely.
  
  Sprinkle the insides of the tomatoes with 1/2 teaspoon of the salt.
  Turn the tomatoes upside down on paper towels to drain, then place in
  refrigerator and chill.
  
  Add onion, diced green chilies, lemon juice, and the remaining salt
  to the chopped tomato.  Mix and chill.
  
  When it is time to serve the salad, mash the avacado mixture and stir
  into the tomato mixture.  Do not allow to stand, or the avacaos will
  darken.
  
  Place the tomatoes on the bed of lettuce.  Fill tomatoes with
  guacamole, and top them with the crumbled bacon.
  
  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish: Salmon with Pistachio-Basil Butter
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, Nuts/grains, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Pistachios (about 1 ounce)
     10 lg Fresh basil leaves or 1/4
           - cup parsley and 2 tsp.
           - dried basil, crumbled
      1    Garlic clove
    1/2 c  (1 stick) butter, room
           - temperature
      1 ts Lime juice
      6 oz 1-1/2-inch-thick
           - salmon fillets
    1/2    Dry white wine
 
  Servings:  6
  
  Additional fresh basil - leaves (optional)
  
  Process pistachios, 10 basil leaves and garlic clove in processor
  until finely chopped.  Add 1/2 cup butter and 1 teaspoon lime juice
  and process until incorporated into mixture.  Season to taste with
  salt and pepper. Transfer butter mixture to small bowl.  Refrigerated
  until well chilled (Pistachio butter can be prepared up to 4 days
  ahead.)
  
  Preheat oven to 400-degrees F.  Butter 9x13-inch baking dish.  Place
  salmon fillets in dish in single layer.  Pour white wine over.
  Season salmon with salt and pepper.  Bake salmon until almost opaque
  on top, about 10 minutes. Place 2 tablespoons pistachio butter atop
  each salmon piece. Continue baking until salmon fillets are just
  opaque in center, about 5 minutes. Garnish with basil if desired and
  serve immediately.
  
  Serves six.
  
  Shared by Cate Vanicek.
  
  SOURCE: Bon Appetit magazine, January 1992.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soup: Creme of Vegetable Soup - Le Cellier Restaurant
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 qt Chicken stock
    3/4 c  (1-1/2 sticks) butter
    3/4 c  Diced onion
  1 1/2 c  Diced potato
    3/4 c  Peeled diced tomato
    3/4 c  Diced carrot
    3/4 c  Green beans
    3/4 c  Broccoli, coarsely chopped
    3/4 c  Minced leek
    3/4 c  Minced zucchini
      1    Clove garlice
  1 1/2 ts Sugar, or to taste
           Sald and freshly ground
           - pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
 
  Servings:  6
  
  Melt butter in large stockpot over medium heat.  Add onion and saute'
  1 to 2 minutes.  Reduce heat to low and add remaining ingredients
  except stock, cream and parsley.  Cook unti vegetables are soft but
  not brown, about 20-25 minutes.
  
  Add stock and bring to boil over medium high heat.  Reduce heat and
  simmer about 10 minutes.  Cook slightly.
  
  Transfer to blender of processor in batches and puree to smooth.
  Taste and adjust seasonng.  Return to stockpot, place over medium
  heat and gradually stir in cream.  Heat through but do not boil.
  Garnish with parsley.
  
  From Le Cellier Restaurant, Santa Montica, California. Recipe shared
  by Cate Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tortellini Vegetable Filling
 Categories: Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Assorted vegetables
           - cooked or uncooked,
           - fresh or frozen,
           - Such as: Artichoke hearts,
           - Asparagus, Eggplant,
           - Mushrooms, Broccoli
           - or Cauliflower
      2 c  Cooked spinach; chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 md Onions; roughly diced
      6 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Salt; or as desired
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
      1 ts Fresh rosemary leaves; -OR-
    1/2 ts -Dried rosemary
 
  Servings:  1
  
  DEFROST VEGETABLES, if necessary. Roughly chop them into 1/4-inch
  pieces and set aside on a plate. Heat the oil in a large skillet over
  medium heat, add the onion and cook, stirring, for 5 minutes.
  Decrease heat to low and add the vegetables. If using uncooked ones,
  cover and cook for 10 minutes. If using cooked ones, cook uncovered
  for 5 minutes. Stir in the flour and add the milk. Cook, stirring,
  another 2 minutes or until mixture thickens. Add the salt and pepper.
  Remove the skillet from the heat, add the egg, salt, pepper and
  rosemary and scrape the mixture into a bowl to cool. Stuffing can be
  stored, covered, in the refrigerator for up to 7 days. To freeze,
  place 1-cup amounts of stuffing in airtight freezer bags or
  containers, label and place in freezer for up to 3 months.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato: Grandma Vanicek's Czechoslovakian Potato Dumpling
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes
      1    Egg yolk
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2    All-purpose flour
 
  Servings:  1
  
  These are *not* fluffy dumplings as in chicken and dumplings.  They
  are a "sturdy" potato dumpling served as a side dish to meat, and
  usually with a sweet sauerkraut/carraway/honey dish as the vegetable.
  
  *                       *                       *
  
  Boil peeled potatoes in small quantity of water.  Drain potatoes
  thoroughly.  Rice potatoes through hand held masher/ricer.  Let
  potatoes cool.  On floured board, gradually add flour working mixture
  into dough with hands.  Shape potato mixture into a long roll and cut
  into 10 slices. Drop dumplings into boiling water and boil gently
  about 5 minutes.
  
  Drain dumplings on paper towel.  The dumplings are fully cooked after
  the boiling process, but traditionally, Czechoslovakians then melt
  butter in a heavy frying pan, and fry the dumplings until they are
  lightly browned on all sides.
  
  SOURCE: Grandma Vanicek's Czechoslovakian recipes; shared by Cate
  Vanicek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish: Shrimp Creole
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic, pressed or
           - minced
      1 md Green pepper, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
      2 tb Butter
      1 cn Tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Bay leaf, crushed
      1 ts Minced fresh parsley
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 lb Salad shrimp
           * Serve over bed of rice*
 
  Servings:  2
  
  In medium skillet, saute' onion, garlic, green pepper, and celery in
  butter, about 5 minutes, or until tender.  Remove from heat; stir in
  tomato sauce, water, bay leaf, parsley, salt, and pepper.  Add
  shrimp. Bring mixture to a boil; cook covered over medium heat 5
  minutes.  Serve over fluffy white rice.
  
  Yield: 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mayo Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------MAYO SPREAD-----------------------------
    1/4 c  Real Mayonnaise
    1/4 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Celery salt.
 
    Stir to combine.  Enough for 8 slices of bread. Mayo spread will
  enhance the flavor of most foods except sweets. Especially good on
  sandwiches with eggs, cheese, ham and seafood or vegetable pockets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Mayonnaise Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Mild Indian curry powder.
 
  Stir to combine - enough for 8 slices of bread.  Curry is a nice
  flavor accompaniment with beef, chicken, lamb, shrimp and vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maple Butter Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Maple flavoring
 
  Stir to combine. Enough for 8 slices. Use maple butter for pockets.
  Use with pork, ham or sweets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vanilla Butter Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Stir to combine - enough for 8 slices of bread.  Vanilla butter
  enhances flavor and has an enticing aroma while cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Butter Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Almond extract
 
  Stir to combine - enough for 8 slices bread.  Use with fruit pie
  filling or other sweets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Butter Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Herbs
 
  (combine basil, thyme, rosemary and tarragon).  Stir to combine.
  Spread on one side of 8 bread slices or other bread products used for
  pockets. This taste especially good with meats, cheese and vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Butter Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
      1 cl Garlic, crushed
 
  Stir to combine.  Enough for 8 bread slices.  Use with any eat or
  vegetable filling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Butter Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
      1 tb Honey.
 
  Stir to combine.  This is enough to spread 8 slices of bread. Because
  the honey promotes browning, use this on pockets which only have to
  brown and heat through.  If used on egg sandwiches,etc... the bread
  may over brown before the egg finishes cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Butter Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soft butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Finely grated lemon rind
 
  Stir to combine.  This is enough to spread 8 slices of bread. The
  fresh lemon brings out the flavor of fruit filling and seafood
  fillings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tyropites
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer
      Yield: 60 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ricotta or cream cheese
    1/2 lb Feta cheese; crumbled
      2    Eggs; lightly beaten
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      1 pn -Salt (optional)
    1/2 ts Grated nutmeg (or more)
      1 c  Butter; melted
      3 tb Butter; melted
      1 lb Commercial filo sheets
 
  In a bowl combine the cheeses, eggs, flour, salt (unless the feta is
  very salty) nutmeg, and 3 tablespoons butter.  Cover the bowl and
  chill several hours or overnight, removing from the refrigerator an
  hour before using. Cut the filo into thirds (3 x 11 inches).  Pile up
  the filo, covering it with waxed paper and a damp towel.  Take out
  one sheet at a time and keep the rest covered.  Butter the filo, one
  sheet at a time, using a pastry brush and the 1 cup melted butter.
  Place 1 teaspoon of the filling 1 inch from the end nearest you.
  Fold the filo back over the filling so the bottom edge meets the left
  edge, forming a right angle. Continue folding back at right angles to
  make the triangular shape. Bake in a moderate oven (350 degrees) for
  20 to 25 minutes or until golden and crisp, turning once. Serve hot.
  Note: Tyropites may be stacked upright in cardboard boxes and frozen.
  When ready to bake, separate while still frozen, spread on baking
  sheets, and bake as directed above, allowing an additional 10 minutes
  baking time.
  
  Source: The Food of Greece by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles. Avenel
  Books, New York. Source: Karen Mintzias - I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanahorizo
 Categories: Greek, Vegetable, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 bn Parsley; chopped fine
      1 lg Yellow onion; chopped fine
      1 tb Garlic, finely choppped
      3 c  -Water
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 c  Tomatoes, chopped
    1/8 ts -Salt
    1/8 ts -Pepper
      2 bn Spinach; stems removed,
           - chopped
      1 c  White rice, uncooked
 
  In a large saucepan place the oil and heat it on medium high until it
  is hot.  Add the parsley, onions, and garlic.  Saute the ingredients
  for 3 to 4 minutes, or until the onions are translucent.
  
  Add the water and bring it to a boil.
  
  Add the tomato paste, chopped tomatoes, salt, and pepper.  Mix the
  ingredients together thoroughly so that everything is well combined.
  
  Add the spinach and rice.  Simmer the ingredients for 30 minutes on
  low heat, or until the rice is done.
  
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach
  Recipe - by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 via Karen
  Mintzias, I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Patates
 Categories: Greek, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb White potatoes
    1/2 c  Chopped yellow onions
    1/4 c  Finely minced garlic
    1/2 ts -Salt
    1/2 ts -Pepper
    1/2 ts Dry oregano
    1/2 ts Basil
      1 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
           -Water (as needed)
 
  Preheat the oven to 400 F.
  
  In a large baking pan place the peeled and quartered potatoes (add
  enough potatoes so that they fill the pan up, 3/4-inch from the top).
  Sprinkle on the onions, garlic, salt, pepper, oregano, basil, lemon
  juice, and vegetable oil. Add enough water so that the potatoes are
  just covered. Stir the ingredients together very thoroughly so that
  everything is well mixed.
  
  Bake the potato mixture for 45 minutes. Carefully stir the ingredients
  together so that they are re-mixed. Bake the potatoes for another 45
  minutes, or until they are tender. Remove the potatoes with a slotted
  spoon.
  
  Serves 6 to 8
  
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach
  Recipe - by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 via Karen
  Mintzias, I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Makaronia
 Categories: Greek, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Sweet butter
    1/4 lb Mizithra (or Feta); grated
  1 1/2 lb Spaghetti; cooked al dente
     16    Jumbo Calamata olives *
 
  *Note: Olive meat should be shaved from the pits.
  
  In a large saucepan place the butter and heat it on medium until it
  has melted.  Add the cheese and stir it in.
  
  Add the pasta and toss it in so that it is well coated with the
  butter and cheese.  Add the shaved olives and toss them in well.
  
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach
  Recipe - by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 via Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Papadakis Stuffed Grape Leaves
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground lamb
      1 lg Yellow onion; chopped fine
      1 bn Parsley; chopped
      1 bn Fresh mint; chopped
      1 c  Pine nuts
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts -Salt
    1/2 ts -Pepper
      1    Jar grape leaves *
           -Water (as needed)
 
  *Note: Grape leaves should be washed and stems removed.
  
  In a large bowl place the lamb, onions, parsley, mint, pine nuts,
  lemon juice, olive oil, oregano, salt, and pepper.  Mix the
  ingredients together with your hands so that they are well combined.
  
  Lay a grape leaf out flat.  Place approximately 3 ounces of the lamb
  mixture in the center of the grape leaf.  Fold over the stem end.
  Fold over the two sides.  Roll up the grape leaf so that the mixture
  is completely encased.  Repeat this process until all of the meat
  mixture is used.
  
  Preheat the oven to 350 F.  Line the bottom of a large baking dish
  with approximately 10 grape leaves.  Place the stuffed grape leaves
  in the dish so that they are tightly packed.  Cover the stuffed
  graped leaves with water and bake them for 1 hour.
  
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach
  Recipe - by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 via Karen
  Mintzias, I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Revithia Soupa (Chick Pea Soup)
 Categories: Greek, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Dried chick peas
      6 c  -Cold water
      2    Onions,thinly sliced
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Salt
 
  	   Lemon juice or wine vinegar
  
  1. Wash and soak chick p[eas overnight in water to cover. The next
  day, rinse and drain. In a 4-quart saucepan, bring 6 cups of water to
  a boil and add the chick peas. 2. Remove the froth, then add the
  onion and olive oil. Simmer until tender, about one to two hours. Add
  salt at the end and hot water (not cold), if needed to make more
  stock. 3. Serve hot with lemon juice or vinegar. Makes six servings.
  
  Nutritional analysis per serving: 80 calories, 3 grams protein, 2
  grams fat, 12 grams carbohydrates. via Karen Mintzias, I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans Braised with Mint & Potatoes
 Categories: Greek, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil & margarine, mixed
      1 c  Tomato juice or sauce
      1 lb Fresh green beans
           - trimmed, cut
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley, opt.
      2 md Potatoes; peeled
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
           Chopped fresh mint
 
  Heat the fat in an enameled pan and mix in the tomato juice or sauce.
  Add the green beans and parsley to the pan with enough water to
  almost cover. Tuck the potato slices in between, partially cover the
  pan, and simmer for 25 minutes, the stir and season with salt,
  pepper, and 2 tablespoons chopped mint.  Cook uncovered until the
  beans and potatoes are fork tender, about 10 more minutes.  If the
  sauce has not thickened, pour it into a small pan, and boil down to
  one cup, then combine with the beans and potatoes in a warm serving
  bowl.  Sprinkle with a little additional fresh mint and serve warm.
  Excellent with grilled chops, fish or egg dish, but equally good as a
  main course with cheese.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York. via Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stifado
 Categories: Greek, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
  1 1/2 lb Boneless beef chuck
           - cut into 1-1/2" cubes
      2 tb All-purpose flour
     12 oz Sm. white boiling onions
           - Peeled
      1 lb Tomatoes,peeled,seeded,chopd
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
  2 1/2 tb Chopped fresh thyme *
  2 1/2 tb Chopped fresh rosemary *
  2 1/2 tb Chopped fresh oregano *
      1    Bay leaf; crumbled
      1 ts Ground cumin
      2 c  Dry red wine
    1/2 lb Feta cheese, crumbled
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
 
  * 1 teaspoon dried herbs may be used instead of fresh.
  
  Preheat over to 350 F.  Heat oil in heavy 4- to 5-quart Dutch oven
  over medium high heat.  Toss beef with flour in large bowl. Add beef
  to pan in batches and cook until brown, stirring occasionally, about
  3 minutes per batch.   Transfer browned beef to bowl.  Add onions to
  pan and cook until light brown, stirring frequently, about 5 minutes.
  Add tomatoes, garlic, herbs and cumin to pan.  Stir in wine and bring
  to a boil.  Cover and bake in oven until beef is tender, about 2
  hours.  (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.  Rewarm
  to 350 F oven before continuing.)
  
  Stir feta into stew.  Return to oven and continue baking until cheese
  is heated through, about 10 minutes.  Season with salt and pepper and
  serve.
  
  Source: (Takis Taverna, Corfu)  "Bon Appetit" February 1990.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fakes Xithati ( Sour Lentil Soup)
 Categories: Greek, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 l  Brown lentils
      2 l  Water
    1/4 l  Finely chopped spring onions
      1    Garlic clove (opt.); crushed
    1/2 dl Finely chopped coriander *
    3/4 dl Olive oil
    1/2 dl Cold water
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 dl Vinegar (or to taste)
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  *Note: Finely chopped parsley may be substituted for coriander leaves.
  
  Wash lentils in several changes of cold water, or place in a sieve
  and run water through them.  Drain.
  
  Put lentils in a large pot with 8 cups water, spring onion, garlic if
  used, oil and coriander or parsley (or a combination of the two if
  preferred). Bring to the boil, cover pan and simmer on low heat for 1
  hour or until lentils are soft.
  
  Put water and flour in a screw top jar, seal and shake until
  thoroughly combined.  This prevents lumps forming.  Pour this
  gradually into boiling soup, stirring constantly, until thickened
  slightly.  Add vinegar and salt and pepper to taste.  Return to the
  boil, boil gently for 5 minutes, then serve hot.
  
  From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos
        ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Baked in Paper
 Categories: Greek, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Leg of lamb *
      2 oz Feta or Kasseri (or more)
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Spearmint flakes
      1 ts Oregano
      2    Garlic cloves
      2    Lemons, juice only
      1 tb Salt
           Pepper to taste
 
  *Note: Lamb shanks may be substituted for leg of lamb.
  
  Wipe meat with damp cloth. Make incisions with small sharp knife on
  all sides of leg or shanks. Insert pieces of garlic clove and cheese.
  Rub with lemon juice. Sprinkle with herbs, salt and pepper. Wrap
  securely in heavy paper twice. Use greaseproof paper such as cooking
  parchment or oil brown paper. (do not use aluminum foil. It prevents
  browning.) Tie with string. Bake a leg for 2 1/2 hours in 350 F oven.
  Bake 2 hours if using shanks.
  
  From: "The Complete Greek Cookbook" by Theresa Karas Yianilos. Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fassoulada ( Greek Bean Soup )
 Categories: Greek, Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Dried navy beans
      2    Onions; chopped
      2    Celery stalks with leaves
           - chopped
      2    Carrots; scraped & diced
      4    Sprigs fresh parsley;chopped
      1 c  Chopped, drained tomatoes
      1    Bay leaf
      2    Sprigs fresh mint or thyme
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
    1/3 c  Olive oil
 
  Wash beans and soak overnight in cold water.  The next day, in a soup
  kettle, bring the beans to a boil in the soaking water.  Skim off the
  foam, then add the remaining ingredients, cover, and simmer gently
  until the beans are tender, about 3 hours.  Serve hot.
  
  Note: Less frequently, the soup is pureed through a sieve.  Also, you
  may add the herbs during the last hour or so of cooking, if you wish.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanakopita Peloponnisos
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 kg Spinach
      1 md Onion; chopped
      1    Leek; chopped
      1 c  Chopped spring onions
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
      3 ts Ground nutmeg
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      8    Fillo pastry sheets
           Olive oil or butter
 
  Serves 6-10 Oven temperature: 180 C (350 F) Cooking time: 50 minutes
  
  Wash spinach well and cut off any coarse stems.  Chop coarsely and
  put into a large pan. Cover and place over heat for 7-8 minutes
  shaking pan now and then or turning spinach with a fork.  Heat just
  long enough to wilt spinach so that juices can run out freely.  Drain
  well in a colander, pressing occasionally with a spoon.
  
  Gently fry the onion in olive oil for 10 minutes, add chopped leek and
  spring onions and fry gently for further 5 minutes until transparent.
  
  Place well-drained spinach in a mixing bowl and add oil and onion
  mixture, herbs and nutmeg.  Blend thoroughly, adding salt and pepper
  to taste.
  
  Place a sheet of fillo pastry on work surface and brush lightly with
  olive oil.  Top with 3 more sheets of pastry, brushing each with oil.
  Brush top layer lightly with oil and place half the spinach mixture
  along the length of the pastry towards one edge and leaving 4 cm
  (1-1/2-inches) clear on one side.  Fold bottom edge of pastry over
  filling, roll once, fold in sides then roll up.  Place a hand at each
  end of roll and push it in gently like a concertina.  Repeat with
  remaining pastry and filling.
  
  Place rolls in an oiled baking dish leaving space between rolls.
  Brush tops lightly with oil and bake in a moderate oven for 30
  minutes until golden.  Serve hot cut in portions.
  
  From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos.
        ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soutzoukakia Smyrneika (Ground Meat Sausages, Smryna Styl
 Categories: Greek, Meat
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      4 tb Butter; melted
      1 lb Tomatoes; peeled
      1 ts Granulated sugar
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      3    Garlic cloves; crushed
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 sm Bay leaf
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      2 sl Bread; crusts removed,
           - soaked in water, and
           - squeezed dry
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1    Egg; lightly beaten
      2 ts Parsley; minced
      1 ts Salt; (or more to taste)
      1 pn Freshly ground pepper
           Oil for frying
 
  Combine the melted butter, tomatoes, sugar, salt & pepper, 1 clove of
  garlic, wine, and bay leaf in a saucepan.  Simmer for 30 minutes, then
  strain through a fine sieve or food mill.  Meanwhile, combine the
  remaining ingredients in a large bowl and knead thoroughly.  (The
  mixture should not be stiff.)  Pinch off pieces a little larger than
  a  walnut and shape with the hands into elongated egg shapes about 1
  x 3 inches. Fry them lightly on all sides in hot oil and then drain
  on paper towels, or arrange them on a baking dish and bake in a 375
  degree oven for 20 minutes, turning once. Drop the soutzoukia in
  sauce and simmer for 15 minutes. Serve with a steaming grain dish and
  fresh, cooked vegetables or salad.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles, Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bakaliaro Tiganito ( Fried Salt-Cod )
 Categories: Greek, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Dried salt cod
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Cold water
      1 pn Salt
    1/4 ts Baking powder
           Vegetable oil for frying
 
  Cut the cod into 4-inch sections.  Place in a glass or earthenware
  bowl, cover with cold water, and soak overnight.  The next day, drain
  and discard the water.  Put the cod in a pot and cover with cold
  water.  Bring to a boil, then remove from the heat and lift out the
  cod with a slotted spoon. Remove the bones and the black skin.
  
  In a medium bowl, combine the flour, water, salt, and baking powder
  to make a thin batter.  Dip the cod in batter and fry in hot oil
  (about 1/2 inch deep) on both sides, then lower heat and cook until
  tender, turning once again.  Serve hot, with skordalia, which is cold
  or room temperature.
  
  Note: If the cod is excessively salty, change water 2 or 3 times
  during the soaking period.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Astakos Plaki - Lobster in Tomato Sauce with Saffron Rice
 Categories: Greek, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Lobsters (about 2 lbs each)
           - (live, or recently dead)
     25    Saffron strands; soaked in
    1/4 c  Hot water
    1/4 lb Finely chopped onion
      1 md Leek; washed, finely chopped
      8 tb Fruity olive oil
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 lb Tomatoes; skinned, seeded,
           - and finely chopped
      4    Sun-dried tomatoes (in oil)
           - pounded to a paste
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt & freshly ground Pepper
    1/2 c  Finely chopped Fennel
    1/2 c  Minced flat-leaf Parsley
      1 tb Finely chopped fresh Mint
           Saffron Rice
 
  If you have live lobsters, plunge them into a pan of boiling water
  for 1 minute, then into cold water.
  
  To prepare the lobsters, break off the claws and crack them open with
  a hammer.  Cut off the tip of the tail (with the fins), then sever
  the tail where it joins the head with a heavy knife.  Cut the tail
  into rings, slicing through the shell between the ribs.
  
  Split the head open lengthwise with a hard blow of a knife and remove
  and discard the gritty stomach sac.  Pour the coral (if any) and the
  green matter (which is the liver) into a stainer over a bowl,
  sprinkle with salt and pepper, and reserve.  Put the saffron to soak.
  
  In a heavy-bottomed pan big-enough to contain the lobsters and sauce,
  fry the onion and leek gently in 3 tablespoons olive oil until
  translucent. Add the garlic, chopped tomatoes, tomato paste and
  liquid, wine, orange juice, and bay leaf.  Season and simmer,
  covered, for 15 minutes.
  
  Add the fennel, parsley, mint, saffron and liquid, and lobster tail
  pieces and claws with their shells (but not the legs) and simmer,
  covered, for 10 minutes.
  
  In the meantime push the coral and liver of the lobster through the
  strainer and beat the pure with the remaining olive oil.  When the
  lobster has simmered for 10 minutes, ladle out about 1 cup sauce and
  beat this into the coral pure.  Pour this back into the pot, stir,
  and simmer for another 10 minutes.  Serve with saffron rice.
  
  Source: Recipes from a Greek Island - by Susie Jacobs ISBN:
  0-671-74531-X
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Souvlaki with Tzaziki
 Categories: Greek, Lamb
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------SOUVLAKI-------------------------------
      2 lb Lamb shoulder;-OR-
           -Sirloin tip;cut in 1 1/2"
           -chunks
      2 c  Red wine;dry
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Oregano;dried
      2 ts Lemon rind;long strips up to
           -3 tsp
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           -Sweet peppers and cherry
           -tomatoes as needed

MMMMM--------------------------TZAZIKI-------------------------------
      2 c  Yogurt;pain
    1/2    Cucumber;English,peeled &
           -grated
      2    Garlic cloves;minced
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 ts -salt
 
  "Begin preparing the tzazik a few hours before serving. The flavours
  need time to blend. Marinate the meat overnight to absorb the wine
  and garlic."
  
  Souvlaki: Place the meat in a large bowl. Pour in the wine and
  sprinkle minced garlic and oregano. Imbed the lemon strips among the
  cubes of meat and drizzle with olive oil. Cover tightly with plastic
  wrap and refrigerate 12 hours or overnight. Shake or stir the mixture
  several times during the marination period.
    About 30 minutes before serving, drain off and discard the marinade.
  Thread the chunks of meat onto long skewers, brushing with a little
  olive oil. (We usually BBQ the peppers and tomatoes on separate
  skewers but it's really up to the chef.)
    Over medium coals, barbeque the souvlaki until it's done the way
  you like it. Serve on a bed of rice and pass the tzaziki to sppon on
  top. SERVES 4-6
  
  Tzaziki: Line a colander or sieve with cheesecloth (or gauze) and set
  it over a bowl. Pour in the yogurt and allow it to drip for an hour
  or so. After the yogurt has drained, combine it, in a small bowl,
  with the cucumber and the garlic. Cover the bowl tightly with plastic
  wrap and refrigerate until just before serving. While the meat is
  BBQing, drizzle the olive oil over the surface, and without stirring,
  sprinkle on the salt. It needs no mixing - your guest will do that
  when they dollop it onto their souvlaki. MAKES: About 3 cups
  
  Source: Pat, Effie and Alex Stroutzas, of Alex's Cheeses, vendors,
  South Market, St. Lawrence Market, Toronto, Canada. (The town of York
  got its first market in operation 1803, the St Lawrence Hall was
  erected in 1849). _The St. Lawrence Market Cookbook_ by Anita Stewart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Lemon Chicken
 Categories: Greek, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Greek virgin olive oil
      8 lg Chicken breasts
           - (skin & bones removed)
      6    Garlic cloves; crushed
      2    Lemons; juiced
      2 tb Fresh oregano; chopped
    1/8 ts White pepper
      4 oz Feta cheese; cut in 8 slices
 
  In a large pan place the olive oil.  Add the chicken breasts and coat
  them well with the oil.
  
  Spread the garlic on both sides of the chicken.
  
  Sprinkle the lemon juice over the chicken.
  
  Sprinkle on the oregano and white pepper.
  
  Cover the pan and place it in the refrigerator.  Marinate the chicken
  for 24 hours.
  
  Charbroil the chicken for 5 to 6 minutes on each side, or until it is
  done. Brush the chicken with the marinade the entire time that you
  are cooking it.
  
  Place the broiled chicken on a large serving platter.  Put a piece of
  feta cheese on top of each chicken breast.
  
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach
  Recipe - by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 via Karen
  Mintzias, I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Chicken, Cyprus Style
 Categories: Greek, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Roasting chicken
      3 tb Vegetable oil or butter
    1/2 c  Blanched, slivered almonds
    3/4 c  Raw long-grain white rice
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
  1 1/4 c  -Water
           Salt
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 pn Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Currants
           Melted butter or veg. oil
 
  Wash and dry the chicken, reserving the liver, and set aside.  In a
  medium saucepan, heat the oil or butter and saute the almonds and
  liver, then remove with a slotted spoon.  Chop the liver and set
  aside with the nuts. Add the rice to the fat in the pan and saute
  over medium heat, stirring constantly, then pour in the wine, water,
  salt, cinnamon, and sugar. Cover and cook for 12 minutes, or until
  the rice is almost tender. Stir in the almonds, liver, and currants
  and remove the pan from the heat.
  
  Spoon the stuffing into the large cavity of the chicken and close
  tightly with skewers.  Truss the chicken and brush the surface
  lightly with melted butter or oil.  Set in a baking pan, breast side
  up, and bake for 1 1/4 hours, or until tender, in moderate oven (350
  F), turning with 2 wodden spoons every 20 minutes and basting
  frequently with drippings.  Remove the stuffing from the cavity and
  transfer to the center of a warm platter. Carve the chicken and
  arrange around the stuffing.  Serve warm.
  
  Note: For a popular mainland version, substitute pine nuts, nutmeg,
  and a little chopped celery and parsley, and soaked bread for the
  almonds, cinnamon, and rice.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Braised in Walnut Sauce
 Categories: Greek, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Frying or roasting chicken*
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      1    Large onion; sliced
      4 tb Butter
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Sprig of fresh thyme
      1 c  Milk
      2    Egg yolks
      1 ts Grated nutmeg
      1 c  Shelled walnuts; crushed **
 
  *Note: Chicken should be about 2-1/2 to 3 pounds, and cut into serving
  pieces. **Walnuts may be crushed in a mortar, blender or food
  processor.
  
  Wash and dry the chicken parts and season lightly with salt and
  pepper. In a heavy frying pan, saute the onion in butter until soft,
  then add the chicken parts after a few minutes.  Saute on all sides,
  then add the bay leaf, thyme, and enough hot water to almost cover.
  Tighty cover the pan and simmer the chicken until tender
  (approximately 1 hour).  Using a slotted spoon, remove the chicken to
  a warm platter and keep warm while you prepare the sauce.
  
  Strain the remaining pan liquid into a small saucepan and bring to a
  boil. Meanwhile, whisk the milk with the egg yolks, then add, slowly,
  to the strained pan liquid and cook over very low heat until the
  sauce boils, stirring constantly.  Sprinkle in the nutmeg, then stir
  in the crushed walnuts.  Simmer another minute and pour over the
  chicken.  Serve warm.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kota Kapama (Chicken Braised with Cinnamon & Cloves )
 Categories: Greek, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1    Frying or roasting chicken*
      1    Lemon (juice only)
      4 tb Sweet butter & oil, mixed
    1/2 c  Dry white wine (optional)
  1 1/2 lb Peeled, chopped tomatoes
      1 tb Tomato paste; mixed w/ water
    1/4 c  -Water to mix w tomato paste
      1    Large stick cinnamon
      3    Whole cloves
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
           Fresh parsley or watercress
 
  *Note: Chicken should be about 2-1/2 lbs., and be cut into serving
  pieces.
  
  Arrange the chicken parts in a glass or earthenware bowl and rub all
  over with lemon juice.  Allow to stand while heating the butter and
  oil in a heavy braising pot.  Slip the chicken into the fat and cook
  over medium heat, turning with tongs to avoid pricking the flesh;
  saute until light chestnut in color.  Heat the wine in a small pan,
  pour over the chicken, shake the pan, and continue cooking over low
  heat.  Stir in the tomatoes and tomato paste, slip the cinnamon and
  cloves in among the pieces, and cover.  Simmer over the lowest
  possible heat for 1-1/2 hours, or until the chicken is tender and the
  sauce thick.  Or, transfer to a medium slow oven (325 F) to complete
  the cooking.  Season with salt and pepper.  Serve warm over cooked
  grain or mashed potatoes with green raw or cooked vegetables and
  chilled wine.  Garnish with parsley or watercress.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tourta Athineiki (Orange-Walnut Cake,athens Style)
 Categories: Greek, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 lb Butter; sweet
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      4    Eggs
      1    Orange,(juice & grated rind)
      3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
           Confectioners' sugar (opt.)
 
  Cream the butter until light and fluffy, then gradually add the sugar.
  Continuing to beat, add the eggs one at a time, beating well, on
  medium speed, after each addition.  Gradually add the orange juice
  and rind. Meanwhile, sift the flour with the baking powder and salt
  and gradually add to the batter.  Add the walnuts last, blend another
  minute on medium high speed, and pour into a greased and lightly
  floured 8-inch tube pan. Bake in a moderate oven (350 F) for 25 to 30
  minutes until the color is a light chestnut and the cake springs back
  to the touch. (Watch carefully because this cake bakes quickly.) Turn
  onto a wire rack, round side up. Dust with confectioners' sugar and
  cool thoroughly before slicing.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York. Source: Karen Mintzias I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melomakarona * Phoenikia
 Categories: Greek, Dessert
      Yield: 40 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Honey
  1 1/2 c  Sugar; granulated
      1 c  -Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 lb Walnuts; finely chopped
  1 1/4 c  Butter ; softened
      4 ts Cinnamon; ground (or more)
  1 1/2 c  Oil; vegetable
    1/2 c  Sugar; icing
      2    Oranges' strained juice
      2 tb Cognac or brandy
    1/4 ts Cloves; ground
    1/2 ts Nutmeg; ground
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      6 c  Flour; all purpose (or more
      2 oz Walnuts; finely chopped
 
  (Author's Note): Ancient and traditional small, spicy baked syruped
  cakes, these are perfect for a large buffet.  The nickname asserts
  their introduction into Greece by the Phoenicians, but not with these
  ingredients!  Within my lifetime I have seen the oil give way to
  butter and semolina succumb to flour. Combine the honey, granulated
  sugar, water, and lemon juice in a saucepan and boil for 5 minutes.
  Remove from the heat. Combine the 1 pound finely chopped walnuts with
  1/4 cup of the softened butter, 2 teaspoons of the cinnamon, and 5
  tablespoons of the syrup. Reserve the remaining syrup and set the
  filling aside while you prepare the dough. Using an electric mixer,
  cream the remaining butter (1 cup) with the oil until light and
  fluffy. Gradually add the confectioners' sugar, beating on medium
  speed.  Add the orange juice slowly to the batter, along with the
  Cognac or brandy, 1 teaspoon of the cinnamon, and the other spices.
  In a small bowl, sift the baking powder, soda, and 2 cups of the
  flour together. Slowly add the flour mixture to the batter and beat
  for a few minutes. Continuing to mix by hand, add only enough
  remaining flour to make a soft dough.  Knead. Break off small pieces
  of the dough and shape with your fingers into oblongs about
  2-1/2-inches long and 1-inch high. Flatten between your palms and
  place 1 teaspoon of the filling mixture in the center.  Work the
  dough around the filling to enclose it completely and press firmly to
  seal. This procedure sounds difficult, but with many hands it is
  quite simple. Place on a cookie sheet and continue until all the
  cakes are shaped.  Bake in a moderate oven (350 F) for 25 minutes,
  then cool on a rack.  Bring the syrup back to a boil.  Dip each cake
  into the syrup and arrange on a platter.  Sprinkle with the remaining
  chopped walnuts and teaspoon cinnamon, or more if desired.  Cool
  before storing.
  
  Note: You may bake and cool melomakarona, store a few days in advance
  and dip in syrup as described above a day or so before serving.  The
  flavor improves after a few days.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York. Karen Mintzias I-Cooking Source: Karen Mintzias
  ~I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Karithopita Spiced Walnut Cake
 Categories: Greek, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Bisquick
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts -Salt
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
    3/4 ts Baking powder
      2 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
  1 1/2 c  Milk
  1 1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  -Water
      1    2" strip orange peel
      1    2" strip lemon peel
    1/2    Cinnamon stick
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/2    Lemon; juiced
    1/4 c  Walnuts
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  In a large mixing bowl place the eggs, Bisquick, 1/2 teaspoon
  cinnamon, salt, cloves, baking powder, the 2 cups of sugar, the 2 1/2
  cups of chopped walnuts, milk, and oil.  Blend them together with an
  electric mixer for 5 minutes.
  
  Turn the mixer on high and beat the batter for 15 seconds.
  
  Preheat the oven to 375 F.  Pour the batter into a baking pan that is
  10 x 14 inches, and 2 1/2 inches deep.  Bake the cake for 45 minutes,
  or until a toothpick inserted comes out clean.  Remove the cake and
  let it sit for 2 hours.
  
  In a medium saucepan place the 3/4 cup of sugar, water, orange peel,
  lemon peel, and cinnamon stick.  Bring the ingredients to a boil and
  then simmer them for 5 minutes.
  
  Add the honey and bring the mixture to a boil.  Remove the pan from
  the heat and add the lemon juice.  Stir the ingredients together and
  let the syrup cool.  Remove the orange and lemon peels, and the
  cinnamon stick.
  
  Spread the syrup over the cake.  Sprinkle on the 1/4 cup of chopped
  walnuts and the ground cinnamon.
  
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach
  Recipe - by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baklava ( Papadakis Taverna)
 Categories: Greek, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      5 ts Cinnamon
      3 c  Coarsley chopped walnuts
      1 lb Sweet butter; melted
      1 lb Phyllo pastry sheets
     40    Whole cloves
      1    2" strip of orange peel
      1    2" strip of lemon peel
      1    Cinnamon stick
    1/3 c  Honey
    1/2    Lemon; juiced
 
  In a medium bowl place the cinnamon and walnuts, and mix them
  together.
  
  Brush the bottom of a 14" x 20" baking dish with the butter.  Place
  one pastry sheet in the dish and brush it with the butter.  Repeat
  this process so that 6 pastry sheets line the bottom of the dish.
  
  Sprinkle 1/3 of the nut mixture over the top of the pastry sheets.
  Repeat this process so that there are 3 layers of the nut mixture and
  4 layers of 6 buttered pastry sheets, ending with 6 pastry sheets.
  
  Cut the baklava into 40 diamond shaped pieces.  Insert a whole clove
  in the top of each piece.
  
  Preheat the oven to 350 F.  Bake the baklava for 40 minutes, or until
  it is golden brown.  In a medium saucepan place the sugar, water,
  orange peel, lemon peel, and cinnamon stick.  Bring the ingredients
  to a boil and then simmer them for 5 minutes.
  
  Add the honey and bring the mixture to a boil.  Remove the pan from
  the heat and add the lemon juice.  Stir the ingredients together and
  then let the syrup cool.  Remove the orange and lemon peels, and the
  cinnamon stick.
  
  Spread the cool syrup over the hot baklava.  Cover the dish with a
  towel and let it sit for 1 hour before serving.
  
  Source: Papadakis Taverna - San Pedro, California California Beach
  Recipe - by Joan & Carl Stromquist - ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 via Karen
  Mintzias I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baklava 2
 Categories: Greek, Dessert
      Yield: 30 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------BAKLAVA-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Walnuts; finely chopped
    3/4 c  Pistachios; finely chopped
    1/2 c  Almonds; finely chopped bla
    1/2 c  Sugar; superfine
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Nutmeg
  1 1/4 lb Butter; melted
      1 pk Commercial phyllo sheets

MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 3/4 c  -Water
      1    Orange's rind; finely grate
      1    Lemon's rind; finely grated
      5    Whole cloves
      1    Cinnamon stick
      1 c  Honey
 
  *Note: Almonds should be lightly toasted. Combine nuts, sugar,
  cinnamon and nutmeg.  Brush a 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan well with
  butter. Separate 25 phyllo sheets from package. Place under a smooth,
  damp towel to prevent drying.  Wrap remaining filo well. Freeze for
  future use. Place one phyllo sheet in pan. Trim to fit. Brush
  generously with melted butter. Repeat procedure until there are 5
  layers of buttered phyllo in the pan. Sprinkle with 1/4 nut mixture.
  Repeat this procedure two more times, ending with phyllo.  Drizzle
  any remaining butter over top.  Bake in 350 degree oven 1-1/2 hours
  or until golden brown.  Remove baklava from oven. Using a sharp
  knife, immediately cut long, diagonal lines from corner to corner,
  forming an "X".  Follow these guidelines to cut baklava into
  serving-size diamonds. While still hot, pour cooled syrup over
  baklava. Syrup: Combine sugar, water, orange and lemon rinds, cloves
  and cinnamon stick in saucepan. Bring to boil.  Simmer, uncovered,
  about 5 minutes to thicken syrup slightly. Remove from heat.  Discard
  spices. Stir in honey. Cool at room temperature. Pour over hot
  baklava. Allow to stand overnight before serving.
  
  From: "Classic Greek Cooking" by Daphne Metaxas.  ISBN: 0-911954-31-7
  Source: Karen Mintzias I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Galaktoboureko
 Categories: Greek, Dessert
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      6 c  Milk
      1 c  Fine semolina
  3 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 ts -Salt
      6    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla extract; opt
      1 tb Butter
     12    Commercial filo sheets
    3/4 c  Butter; melted & hot
      1 c  -Water
      1    Lemon or orange (peel only)
      2 tb Fine brandy or cognac (opt.)
 
  In a heavy-bottomed, 3-quart saucepan, bring the milk gradually to a
  boil; do not allow it to scorch.  Meanwhile, sift the semolina,
  cornstarch, 1 cup of the sugar, and salt together and gradually add
  to the boiling milk, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon.  Cook
  slowly over medium heat until the mixture thickens and comes to a
  full boil, then remove from the heat. Beat the eggs on high speed of
  an electric mixer. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar and continue beating
  until very thick and fluffy, about 10 minutes, then add the vanilla.
  Stirring constantly, add eggs to the hot pudding. Partially cover the
  pan and allow to cool.  Butter a 9 x 12 x 3-inch baking pan and cover
  the bottom with 7 sheets of the filo, brushing butter generously
  between each and making sure that a few sheets come up the pan sides.
  Pour the custard into the pan over the filo. Cover with the 5
  remaining sheets, brushing butter between each and on the surface.
  With the tip of a very sharp knife, score the top filo sheets into
  square or diamond shapes, being careful not to score as deeply as the
  custard. Bake on the center rack of a moderate (350 F) oven for 40 to
  45 minutes, until crisp and golden chestnut in color and the custard
  is firm. Meanwhile, boil the remaining 1-1/2 cups sugar with the
  water and lemon or orange peel for 5 minutes.  Add the brandy or
  Cognac, if desired, and set aside. Remove the galaktoboureko from the
  oven and set on a cake rack.  Spoon the hot syrup over the entire
  galaktoboureko, particularly the edges. Cool thoroughly before
  cutting and serving.  Store in the refrigerator. From: "The Food of
  Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel Books, New York.
  Source: Karen Mintzias I-Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Honey Cream with Fruits and Nuts
 Categories: Greek, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
    1/4 c  Coarsely chopped almonds*
    1/4 c  Coarsely chopped cashews
    1/4 c  Coarsely chopped pistachios
      1 c  Honey
      1 c  Chilled whipping cream
           Mixed fresh fruit*
 
  *Note: Almonds should be blanched. ** Suggested fruits: berries,
  sliced pears and apples.
  
  Preheat oven to 325 F.  Place all nuts in baking pan.  Bake until
  lightly toasted, stirring occasionally, about 15 minutes.  Cool
  completely.
  
  Using electric mixer, beat honey in large bowl until thick and pale,
  about 2 minutes.  Whip cream in another large bowl until stiff peaks
  form.  Fold nuts into cream.  Gently fold cream into honey, leaving a
  few steaks of cream.  Cover and refrigerate until well chilled and
  slightly set, about 2 hours.  (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)
  
  Place dollop of honey cream on each plate.  Surround with fruit and
  serve.
  
  Source: Bon Appetit magazine, February 1990.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Halvah Fudge
 Categories: Candy, Greek
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
    2/3 c  Milk
    2/3 c  Sesame Tahini
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Cook sugar and milk in a sauce pot over medium heat to just under the
  soft-ball stage, to 230 degrees F.  Remove from fire and add tahini
  and vanilla but do not mix in immediately.  Let it cool about 2
  minutes.  Beat with paddle or spoon for a few seconds and pour
  quickly into a buttered pan.
  
  From: "The Complete Greek Cook Book" by Theresa Karas Yianlios, Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tahinopita ( Tahini Cake )
 Categories: Greek, Dessert, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Veg. margarine or peanut oil
      1 c  Tahini
      1 c  Caster sugar
      1    Orange (grated rind only)
    3/4 c  Strained orange juice
  2 1/4 c  Plain flour
      1 pn Salt
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Bicarbonate of soda
    1/2 ts Ground allspice
    1/2 c  Finely chopped walnuts
    1/2 c  Sultanas (white raisins)
 
  This cake is frequently made during Lent as it contains no animal
  products. Peanut butter, the smooth, creamy variety, may be used
  instead of tahini.
  
  Oven temperature: 180 C (350 F) Cooking time: 45-60 minutes
  
  Grease a 20 cm (8 inch) tube pan or a 20 x 30 cm (8 x 12 inch) slab
  cake pan with melted margarine or oil.  Chill in refrigerator until
  required. Beat tahini, sugar and orange rind for 10 minutes, then
  gradually beat in orange juice.  Sift dry ingredients twice and fold
  into tahini mixture. Blend in walnuts and sultanas.
  
  Dust chilled cake pan with flour and turn batter into pan.  Spread
  evenly and knock base of pan on table top to settle batter.  Bake in
  a moderate oven for 55-60 minutes for tube pan, 45 minutes or so for
  slab cake.  When cooked, invert cake in its pan onto cake rack and
  leave for 2-3 minutes before lifting pan from cake.  Cool cake and
  cut in slices or squares to serve.  Store cake in a sealed container.
  
  From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos
        ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baklava (Low Fat Low Cal Version)
 Categories: Greek, Dessert, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 35 servings
 
    1/2 lb Shelled pistachio nuts,
           -ground
      3 tb Sugar
    3/4 ts Ground cinnamon
  1 1/2 tb Rose water
    1/2 lb Filo dough
    1/2 c  Low-calorie margarine,
           -melted
           Rose Water Syrup
           Whole cloves,optional
 
  This rich-tasting baklava contains half the amount of sugar and a
  fraction of the fat you would normally use, thanks to reduced fats,
  sugar, and nuts. The results will fool anyone.
  
  1. Combine pistacho nuts, sugar, cinnamon and rose water in small
  bowl. Using half of filo sheets (cover remaining with plastic wrap to
  prevent from drying out), place 3 sheets in bottom of lightly greased
  13x9" baking sheet. Brush with some of margarine. Sprinkle evenly
  with nut mixture. Place remaining sheets over nut filling, brushing
  after every third sheet and top sheet. 2. Cut baklava at 1-1/2"
  intervals diagonally to form pattern of about 35 diamond shapes. Bake
  at 400'F. 25 minutes or until golden. Place on wire rack to cool.
  Drizzle Rose Water Syrup evenly over top and allow to soak several
  hours. Stud each diamond-shape with whole clove.
  
  Each piece baklava with syrup contains about: 85 calories; 32mg
  sodium; 0 cholesterol; 5 grams fat; 9 grams carbohydrate; 2 grams
  protein; trace fiber.
  
  Exchanges: 1/2 bread; 1/2 fat.
  
  From: Michael Orchekowski
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bakewell Tart
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------PATE BRISEE-----------------------------
      2 c  Flour;all purpose
      2 ts Sugar,granulated
      1 ts -Salt
     14 tb Butter;cut in small pieces
      1    Egg
      1 tb Milk

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Raspberry Jam
      4 tb Butter;softened
  4 1/2 tb Sugar,granulated
      1    Egg
    2/3 c  Almonds;ground; 2 oz
      1 c  Pound cake crumbs;2 oz
    1/2 ts Almond extract

MMMMM-----------------CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR GLAZE----------------------
      2 tb Butter;unsalted
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
      2 tb Heavy cream;also called
           -whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  To make Pate Brisee: In food processor, combine flour, 2 tsp
  granulated sugar, salt and 14 Tbsp butter. Pulse with on/off turns
  til mixture ressembles fine crumbs. In small bowl, whisk together 1
  egg and milk until blended. With processor running, pour in egg
  mixture, processing untril dough pulls away from sides of bowl and
  forms a ball. Divide dough in half. Form each half into a disk shape.
  Wrap separately in plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 30 minutes.
  On floured surface, roll out hal fof the dough. Fit into 7" tart pan
  with removable bottom. (Use remaining half of pastry another time.)
  
  To make filling: Preheat oven to 350F. Spread jam in bottom of unbaked
  pastry shell. In small mixer bowl, cream 4 Tbsp butter and 4 1/2 Tbsp
  granulated sugar at medium speed of electric mixer until thick and
  white. Beat in 1 egg, ground almonds, cake crumbs and almond extract
  till blended. Spoon filling int small mounds all over top of jam.
  Spread evenly over jam. Place tart on baking sheet. Bake at 350F for
  30 to 40 minutes till puffed and set in center.
  
  To make Confectioners' Sugar Glaze: While tart is baking, in small
  saucepan, melt 2 Tbsp butter. Remove from heat. Sift confectioners'
  sugar into butter. Stir in cream and vanilla. Mix until blended and
  smooth. Spread glaze over piping hot tart. Cool on rack. SERVES: 6
  
  SOURCE: Victoria magazine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nova Scotia Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      6 c  Potato, cubed
  1 1/2 c  Bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Poultry seasoning (to
           Taste) OR
      1 ts Sage
    1/2 c  Melted margarine
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped (to taste)
 
  Cook potatoes about 20 min or until soft enough to mash.  Combine all
  ingredients in large bowl and blend well.  TASTE.  Divide into
  meal-sized portions (extra may be frozen).  Re-heat in microwave or
  oven a few minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wesley's Secret Eggplant Recipe
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggplants, or however many
           You can afford
      1    Litre Kentucky Bourbon
 
  Directions: OK, first, you take all the eggplant you have, and grind
  it up very finely in the kitchen sink built-in grinder...SAFETY
  TIP...watch out for finger tips & Bourbon bottles.
  
  (Whoops, it all went down the drain?  Oh, well...)
  
  2nd, take the Bourbon and mix it well with water, 7-up, or a generic
  substitute.  By this time, the odor and texture of the eggplant
  should be gone.
  
  Rinse out your sink, and apply the Bourbon mixture internally.
  
  Now, THERE's an eggplant recipe I can live with!
  
  Next time, we'll try it with a wine sauce!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Cloud Inn Baked Nut Loaf
 Categories: Vegetarian, Holiday
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Diced celery
      1 tb Oil
      1 c  Chopped nuts (walnuts and
           Cashews), finely chopped
      1 c  Cottage cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Bread crumbs
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
    1/4 ts Poultry seasoning
  1 1/4 ts Onion powder
    2/3 c  Water
 
  From: The Thanksgiving Book
  
  "This hearty vegetarian standard takes the place of roast turkey at
  White Cloud Inn, in the Pocono Mountains of Penn." Preheat oven to
  375. Saute onion and celery in oil.  Put all ingredients into a
  greased 11-3/4 " x 7-1/2" baking dish and bake until just firm and
  slightly brown on top, about 35 to 40 minuets. Serve with you
  favorite sauce or gravy. The Inn uses a mushroom sauce, but the dish
  is also good with a tomato sauce or onion gravy. Yield: 5 to 6
  servings.
  
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mock Turkey
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Rolled oats
      2 c  Hot water
      2    Green onions, minced fine
      4    Eggs
      2 tb Cooking oil
      2 c  Ground nut meats
           (walnut prefered)
      1 c  Ground sunflower seeds
      2 tb Peanut butter
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      2 ts Sea kelp
 
  Servings: 6
  
  Pour the hot water over the rolled oats.  Add the rest of the
  ingredients. Oil a baking pan and shape the mixture in the form of
  turkey, using stalks of celery for the legs and shaping the mixture
  around them. Use small oblongs of the mixture for wings.  Pat oil
  over the outside and bake in a moderate oven until done in the
  middle, probably 45 minutes. Loosen with a spatula and remove to a
  meat platter. Garnish and serve hot. Serves 4 to 6
  
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Crunches
 Categories: Pudding, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Butterscotch chips, melted
    1/4 c  Peanut butter
      2 c  Corn flakes
 
  Blend butterscotch chips and peanut butter and stir in cereal. Drop by
  small teaspoonfuls on wax paper and let set until firm
  
  From: Lancaster Farming Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Linquine
 Categories: Pasta, Seafood
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
      2    6 oz cans minced or chopped
           -clams with juice
    1/8 ts Crushed red pepper
    1/4 ts Dried oregano
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      8 oz Pkg dried linguine or
           -spaghetti, cooked
 
  Freshly grated parmesan cheese
  
  Heat olive oil in large skillet over medium heat.  Add garlic and
  saute gently until just golden, about 1 minutes. Do not let garlic
  brown. Add clams and their liquid, red pepper, oregano and lemon
  juice. Simmer 3-5 minutes over low heat. Add parsley and cook 1
  minutes. Place cooked pasta in serving bowl. Pour some sauce over
  pasta and toss to coat strands. Pour remaining sauce over top of
  pasta. Sprinkle with parmesan cheese. Makes 3-4 servings.
  
  Origin: Province newspaper, February 24, 1993 Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Crab and Rice
 Categories: Seafood, Cajun/creol, Rice, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Rice
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 sm Onion
      1 sm Green pepper, cored and
           -seeded and chopped
      1    15 oz can tomatoes, chopped,
           -juice included
      1 ts Cajun seasoning
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Worchestershire sauce
      1    Bay leaf
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
      1    6 oz can crab meat, white or
           -lump, drained
      3 tb Grated parmesan
 
  cook rice in 1-1/2 cups water until just tender and water is
  absorbed,about 18 minutes. Melt butter in medium skillet over
  moderate heat. Add onions and green pepper and cook until onions are
  transparent, 2-3 minutes. Add tomatoes with juice, cajun seasoning,
  pepper, sugar,worchestershire, bay leaf and cloves. Bring mixture to
  simmer and reduce heat to low. Cook, uncovered, 10 minutes, stirring
  frequently. Remove bay leaf. Stir in rice and crab meat. Taste and
  adjust seasonings. Transfer mixture to 1-1/2 quart casserole and
  sprinkle with cheese. Bake uncovered, at 375 F for 20 minutes.  Makes
  4-6 servings.
  
  Origin: Province newspaper, February 24, 1993 Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Belgian Endive and Ham Au Gratin
 Categories: Pork, Cheese/eggs, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 sm Head belgian endive
           Squeeze lemon juice
           Seasoning
      8    Thin slices cooked ham
           SAUCE
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  To 3/4 c grated cheddar or
           -gruyere cheese
           TOPPING
    1/2 c  To 3/4 c fresh soft bread
           -crumbs
    1/4 c  Grated cheddar or gruyere
           -cheese
      2    Tomatoes
 
  Trim the bottom of the endive heads and remove the outer leaves if
  necessary. Cook in boiling salted water with a squeeze of lemon juice
  for about 15 minutes until JUST tender. Drain well and wrap each head
  of endive in a slice of ham, then put into the baking dish. Prepare
  the sauce while the endive is cooking. To make this, heat the butter
  in a saucepan. Remove from heat, stir in the flour, return to the
  heat and cook for several minutes.  Remove from heat and blend in the
  milk. Stir over a low heat until thickened, add seasoning and 3 tbsp
  of the endive stock. Add the cheese to the sauce, pour over the ham
  and endived. Top with crumbs and cheese, brown under the broiler,
  then top with sliced tomatoes. TO SERVE: As soon as cooked.  This
  also make a good hors d'oeuvre for 8. Serves 4.
  
  Origin: Marguerite Patten recipe cards Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Beet Salad
 Categories: Salad, Pork, Vegetable, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      2 md Cooked beets
  1 1/2    To 3 tbsp oil
      1 tb Vinegar
           Seasonings
      1    To 2 dessert apples
    1/4 lb To 1/3 lb cooked ham, cut in
           -1 slice
           Lettuce
      1    Lemon (garnish)
 
  few cocktail onions and/or olives
  
  Hard cook the eggs, crack the shells, keep one egg for garnish.
  Halve the other two eggs, remove the yolks, chop the yolks and whites
  separately; do not chop too finely. Peel and cut the beets in slices
  then into matchsticks. Put into a bowl with the oil, vinegar, and
  seasonings. Peel the apples, cut into neat pieves; add to the beets
  with the diced ham. Mix the egg yolks and whites eith the beets, pile
  onto a bed of lettuce. Garnish with rings of hard cooked egg, lemon
  and the onion and or olives. TO SERVE: With fresh bread or rolls.
  This also makes an excellent hors d'oeuvre for 6-8 people,
  particularly, good if fish is the main course. Store in refrigerator.
  Vary by omitting apple, and adding cooked rice or diced cooke potato.
  
  Origin: Marguerite Patten recipe cards Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Almond Stir Fry
 Categories: Seafood, Fruit, Nuts/grains, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Onion, cut into thin wedges
    1/2    Green, red or yellow pepper,
           -sliced
     12    Snow peas
    1/2 ts Finely chopped fresh ginger
      1 sm Cloved garlic, minced
           1 7.5 oz can salmon
    1/4 c  Chicken or fish stock
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 ts 5 spice powder, optional
    1/4 c  Sliced almonds
 
  hot cooked rice
  
  Combine onion, pepper strips, snow peas, ginger and garlic in a 6 cup
  microwaveable casserole.  Cover and microwave on high for 3-4 minutes
  or until softened. Stir or shake dish once part way through cooking.
  Meanwhile drain salmn juices into a small dish and add stock, orange
  juice, lemon juice, cornstarch and 5 spice powder. Stir until smooth.
  Break up salmno, discarding bones. Stir sauce mixture into
  vegetables. Cover and microwave at high for 2-3 minutes or until
  mixture comes to a boil and thickens slightly.  Stir at least once
  during cooking. Add salmon and microwave, covered, on high for 1
  minutes or until heated through. Garnish with almonds and serve over
  rice.
  
  Origin: Province Newspaper, February 24, 1993 Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shawn's Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn (14oz) green beans, drained
      1 cn (14oz) kidney beans,drained
      1 c  Diced onion
      1 c  Diced celery
      1 sm Can or jar of pimento,
           -chopped
      1 cn (14oz) chick peas
           -(garbanzo's)
      1 cn (10-14oz) kernel corn,
           -drained
      2 lg Carrots, diced into small
           -pieces
           DRESSING:
      1 c  White sugar
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Cooking oil
 
  SALAD:
  
  Drain all the beans and chop the vegetables.  Mix together and put
  into glass gallon jar. In medium saucepan, mix dressing ingredients
  together and then heat until sugar has dissolved. Pour over the beans
  and mix thoroughly. Let sit in fridge for at least 24 hours to blend
  the dressing and the beans. The longer it sits, the better it is.
  Will keep in the fridge for weeks and weeks......
  
  **NOTE**  I find that I have to make 4 times the brine recipe in
  order to cover the beans in a one gallon jar.
  
  Origin: Jean Pare, modifications by Sharon Stevens Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Island Barbecue Pork Chops
 Categories: Pork, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Kraft Barbecue Sauce
    1/4 c  Pineapple Juice
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Ground Allspice
      6    Pork loin chops, 1/4 inch
           -thick
 
  Serves: 6
  
  Mix the barbecue sauce, juice, garlic, vanilla and allspice.  Heat
  electric broiler (not necessary to preheat gas broiler).  Place chops
  on greased rack of broiler pan. Broil 3-4 inches from heat for 10 to
  12 minutes on each side or until done, brushing frequently with
  barbecue sauce.
  
  Source:Kraft 1992 Official U.S. Olympic Training Table Cookbook From:
  Jon Judd, cooking echo, 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swiss Asparagus Au Gratin
 Categories: Vegetable, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
  1 1/2 lb Asparagus spears, trimmed
      2 oz Finelly Shredded Natural
           -Swiss Cheese
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
      2 tb Kraft Touch of Butter
           -Spread, melted
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Serves: 4
  
  Heat oven to 400 degrees.  Bring 1/2 cup water to boil in 10-inch
  skillet; add asparagus. Cook 2 minutes; drain. (Asparagus will still
  be crisp). Place in a 10 x 6 inch baking dish. Mix remaining
  ingredients, sprinkle over asparagus. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until
  cheese mixture is lightly browned.
  
  Source: Kraft 1992 Official U.S. Olympic Training Table Cookbook
  From: Jon Judd, cooking echo, 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Famous Durgin-Park Corn Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Cornmeal
      1 tb Baking Powder
      1 tb Melted Butter
 
  Mix sugar with beaten eggs. Sift flour, salt and cornmeal together.
  Add melted butter and milk. Beat up very quickly and bake in a large
  buttered pan in a very hot oven (450 degrees).
  
  SOURCE: *Dexters Grist Mill, Sandwich, Cape Cod, MA SHARED BY: Jim
  Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Harvest Drumsticks
 Categories: Poultry, Pork, Vegetable, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 sl Lean Bacon
      2    Med. Onions, thinly sliced
           -(1 1/2 cups)
      2    Med. Potatoes, peeled and
           -thinly sliced
      2 lb Chicken Drumsticks
      2    Med. Tomatoes, chopped
      2    Med. Zucchini, thinly sliced
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      1 tb Fresh Marjoram or Dill
    1/4 c  Chopped Parsley
           Salt and Pepper to taste
 
  Ina a shallow 2 1/2 to 3 quart microwave safe utensil, arrange bacon
  between sheets of paper towel. Microwave at high (100%) 4 minutes or
  until crisp. Remove bacon, drain on paper towels and set aside for
  garnishing. Arrange onions and potatoes over bottom of utensil; cover
  with plastic wrap and microwave at high 8 minutes. Stir well. Arrange
  drumsticks, with meatier portions to ouside, on top of vegetables.
  Add remaining ingredients except salt and parsley. Cover with wax
  paper and microwave at high 5 minutes, then at medium high (70%
  power) 14 minutes per pound of drumsticks, stirring several times.
  Let stand 15 minutes and check for doneness; juices should run clear
  when pierced with a fork. Add salt to taste. To serve, garnish with
  crumbled bacon and parsley.
  
  SOURCE: *Oneida Daily Dispatch SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brandy-Orange Barbecued Hens
 Categories: Game, Fruit, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Fresh Cornish Game Hens
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
      2 tb Lemon Juice, divided
    1/4 ts Ground Ginger, divided
           Salt and Pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Orange Marmalade
      1 tb Brandy
 
  Prepare covered outdoor grill for cooking at least 1/2 hour before
  grilling. Rinse hens and pat dry; with kitchen string tie drunsticks
  together. Rub hens with oil and 1 tablespoon of lemon juice; sprinkle
  with 1/4 teaspoon ginger and salt and pepper to taste.
  
  In a small bowl, combine marmalade, brandy, and remaining ginger, set
  aside. Grill, covered, 5-6 inches over medium-hot coals 50-60 minutes.
  After 40 minutes, brush hens with brandy-orange sauce. Cook until
  juices run clear when thigh is pierced, basting 3 to 4 times. Serves
  2 to 4
  
  SOURCE: *Oneida Daily Dispatch SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ricotta Cheese Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Drained ricotta cheese
      6    Egg yolks
    1/4 c  Sugar
      6 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      6    Egg whites
 
  Beat together ricotta, egg yolks, sugar, flour and vanilla.  Beat egg
  whites to a soft peak with a pinch of salt and fold into the batter.
  Make 2 to 3 inch pancakes on a hot greased griddle and brown on both
  sides over moderate to high heat, flipping after 2 to 3 minutes.
  Serve immediately with fruit.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yeasted Maple Walnut Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Env active dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water
      1 c  Warm milk
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Pure maple syrup
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 c  Hot water
      2 tb Melted butter
  1 1/4 c  Finely chopped walnuts
 
  The night before serving, dissolve yeast in 1 cup warm water.  Add
  warm milk, flour and salt.  Mix into a smooth batter.  Cover loosely
  with plastic wrap and rest at room temperature overnight.  Just
  before cooking, mix in maple syrup, baking soda dissolve in hot
  water, and melted butter. Stir in walnuts.  Heat 2 teaspoons butter
  in a skillet or on a griddle until it foams.  Scoop 1/4 cup batter
  onto hot surface for each pancake. Cook over moderate heat until the
  pancake is covered with bubbles. Flip and cook another minute or two,
  until pancake feels spring. Keep warm while preparing the rest of the
  pancakes, greasing the pan with more butter for every batch. Serve
  with syrup, fruit and honey or flavoured butter. Makes 12 pancakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Cottage Cheese Sandwiches
 Categories: Breakfast
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     24    Thin slices French bread
      1 c  Cottage cheese
      4    Eggs
      3 tb Suggar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Pch nutmeg
    2/3 c  Milk
      4 tb To 6 tb unsalted butter
 
  Servings: 12
  
  Make 12 mini-sandwiches using French bread and cottage cheese.
  Separate eggs, beat yolks with sugar until thick.  Add vanilla,
  grated nutmed, and milk.  Beat whites to soft peak with a pinch of
  salt and fold into yolk mixture.  Dip sandwiches into batter and
  brown on both sides in 4 to 6 tablespoons unsalted butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pierogi
 Categories: Pasta, Side dish, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Mound flour on kneading board and make hole in center. Drop eggs into
  hole and cut into flour with a knife. Add salt and water and knead
  until firm. Let rest for 10 minutes covered with a warm bowl. Divide
  dough in halves and roll thin. Cut circles with a large biscuit
  cutter. Place a small mound of filling a little to one side on each
  round of dough. Moisten edge with a little water, fold over and press
  edges firmly together. Be sure they are well sealed to prevent the
  filling from running out. Drop the pierogi into salted boiling water.
  Cook gently for for 3 to 5 minutes. Lift out of water carefully with
  a perforated spoon.
  
  The dough has a tendency to dry while you are working. A dry dough
  will not seal completely. We suggest rolling out a large circle of
  dough, placing small mounds of filling far enough apart to allow for
  cutting, and folding the dough over the mounds of filling. Then cut
  with a small biscuit cutter and seal firmly.
  
  Never crowd or pile pierogi. The uncooked will stick and the cooked
  will lose shape and lightness.
  
  Note: Pierogi can be frozen after boiling and they keep well. I
  perfer all my pierogi fried in butter and onions and seasoned with
  salt and pepper. They should be fried on a medium low heat till
  golden brown.
  
  VARIETIES OF FILLING
  
  Cheese
  
  1 cup cottage cheese 1 tsp. melted butter 1 egg beaten 3 tbsp sugar 3
  tbsp currants 1/4 tsp cinnamon
  
  cream cheese with melted butter. Add other ingredients and mix well.
  Fill pierogi. Serve with melted butter and sour cream.
  
  Cheese
  
  1 cup dry cottage cheese 1 dash of salt 1 tsp. lemon 1 tbsp sugar 1
  egg 1 egg yolk
  
  Mix ingredients thoroughly. Fill pierogi.
  
  Cabbage and Mushrooms
  
  1 small head cabbage 2 cups mushrooms 2 tbsp sour cream 1 small onion,
  chopped fine butter salt and pepper
  
  Quarter cabbage and cook in salted water for 15 minutes. Drain, cool
  and chop fine. Saute onion in butter, add chopped mushrooms and fry 5
  minutes. Add chopped cabbage and continue to fry until flavors blend.
  Add sour cream and cool. Fill pierogi.
  
  Sauerkraut
  
  Two cups sauerkraut may be substituted for the cabbage. Rinse and chop
  sauerkraut. Proceed as above.
  
  Mushrooms
  
  1 cup chopped mushrooms 1 onion chopped fine salt and pepper 2 egg
  yolks butter
  
  Saute onion in butter. Add mushrooms. Season. Remove from fire, add
  egg yolks and stir well. Cool and fill pierogi. Serve with chopped
  onion browned in butter.
  
  Mushrooms and meat
  
  1/2 cup cooked beef 1/2 cup chopped mushrooms 1 onion chopped fine
  butter salt and pepper 2 tbsp sour cream
  
  Run cooked meat through meat grinder. Fry onion in butter until
  transparent, add mushrooms and meat. Season to taste. Add sour cream
  and cool before using.
  
  Prunes
  
  1 cup cooked prunes 1 tsp lemon juice 1 tsp sugar
  
  Soak prunes overnight. Cook with sugar and lemon juice. When cool,
  remove stones and fill pierogi. Serve with bread crumbs browned in
  butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buffalo Turkey Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Turkey, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Turkey wings, about 5 lbs
    3/4 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
           Vegetable Oil
      6 tb Butter, melted
      2 tb Distilled white vinegar
      2 tb Hot red pepper sauce
 
  Cut off wing tips; reserve for other use.  Cut wing into 2 pieces at
  joint. Combine flour, salt and cayenne pepper on a plate.  Dust wings
  in flour mixture, shaking off excess.  Heat 1-1/2 inches of oil in
  large skillet over medium heat.  Add wings in single layer and fry,
  turning once, until browned, 10 minutes; drain on paper towels.
  Repeat with remaining wings. Combine butter, vinegar, and hot pepper
  sauce. Place wings in a large baking pan; drizzle on sauce over
  wings. Bake in 375 oven, 1 hour, basting 4 or 5 times, turning once,
  until wings are browned. Serves 4
  
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Fritters
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, Snack, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pt Clams
      1 tb Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      1 tb Butter
  1 3/4 c  Flour, all-purpose
      1 ts Parsley, chopped
      2    Eggs, beaten
      2 ts Onion, grated
 
  Keywords: Fish, Main dish, Snacks, seafood Servings: 4
  
  Drain clams and chop.  Combine dry ingredients.  Combine eggs, milk,
  onion, butter, and clams.  Combine with dry ingredients and stir
  until smooth. Drop batter by using teaspoonsful into hot shortening
  at 350 degrees F and fry for 3 minutes, or until golden brown.  Drain
  on absorbent paper.
  
  From "Southern Living"
  
  Posted by Bob Springer  3/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glittering Snowflakes
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 60 servings
 
    2/3 c  Butter or margarine
      1    3 oz pkg. cream cheese,
           -softened
  1 3/4 c  All purpose flour
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg yolk
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Finely shredded lemon peel
 
  "For a smooth glaze, dip the surface of the cookie into the icing.
  Then turn the cookie right side up and clean away the excess icing on
  the edges with a small spatula."
  
  Powdered sugar icing Edible glitter or colored sugar
  
  Beat margarine or butter in a large mixing bowl with an electric
  mixer on medium to high speed for 30 seconds.  Add softened cream
  cheese.  Beat till combined.  Add about half of the flour, the sugar,
  egg yolk, baking powder, vanilla, and lemon peel.  Beat till
  thoroughly combined.  Beat or stir in remaining flour.  Divide dough
  in half.  Cover and chill 2 hours or till easy to handle.
  
  Roll each half of dough into 1/8" thickness.  Using a 2 to 3 inch
  snowflake cookie cutter, cut out dough.  Place cookies 1/2 inch apart
  on an ungreased cookie sheet.  Bake in a 375 oven about 5 minutes or
  till edges are firm. Cool on wire rack.  Frost with powdered-sugar
  icing and sprinkle with edible glitter or colored sugar.  Makes about
  60
  
  Powdered sugar icing:  Stir together 1-1/2 cups sifted powdered
  sugar, 1/4 tsp. vanilla, and 1 to 2 Tbsp. milk till of spreading
  consistency.
  
  Note:  The 2 and 3 inch snowflake cutters and edible glitter are
  available by mail from Maid of Scandinavia, 3244 Raleigh Ave.,
  Minneapolis, MN 55416; 1-800-328-6722
  
  From: Better Homes and Gardens Christmas Cookies 1992 Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Gems
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday, Fruit
      Yield: 72 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
      1 c  Margarine or butter,
           -softened
    1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/3 c  Raspberry spreadable fruit
      3 tb Sugar
    2/3 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
      1 tb Shortening
    1/4 c  Finely chopped almonds
 
  Stir together flour, margarine or butter, and sour cream in a large
  mixing bowl, till thoroughly combined.  Divide dough in half.  Cover;
  chill for 3 hours.
  
  Roll each half of dough on a lightly floured surface to 1/8 inch
  thickness. Using a 1-3/4 to 2 inch round cookie cutter cut dough.
  Spread about 1/4 tsp. raspberry fruit on top of half of the cookies.
  Top with remaining cookies.
  
  Stir together sugar and 1 Tbsp. water.  Brush over cookies.  Place
  cookies on a lightly greased baking sheet.  Bake in a 350 oven for 15
  to 20 minutes or till done.  Remove cookies and cool on a wire rack.
  
  Meanwhile, in a small heavy saucepan melt chocolate pieces and
  shortening over low heat till melted, stirring constantly.  Dip one
  side of each of the cookies into melted chocolate.  Place on waxed
  paper; sprinkle with almonds.  Cool until set.  Makes about 72.
  
  From: Better Homes and Gardens Christmas Cookies 1992 Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Mexican Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pt Vanilla ice cream OR
           -other flavor
    1/2 c  Crushed cornflake OR
           -cookie crumbs
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      2 ts Sugar
      1    Egg
           Oil for deep frying
           Honey
           Whipped cream
 
  Keywords: Ices, Desserts, Mexican Servings: 4
  
  Scoop out 4 to 5 balls of ice cream. Return to freezer. Mix cornflake
  crumbs, cinnamon and sugar. Roll frozen ice cream balls in half of
  crumb mixture and freeze again. Beat egg and dip coated balls in egg,
  then roll again in remaining crumbs. Freeze until ready to use. (For
  thicker coating, repeat dipping in egg and rolling in crumbs.) When
  ready to serve, heat oil to 350F. Place 1 frozen ice cream ball in
  fryer basket or on perforated spoon and lower into hot oil 1 minute.
  Immediately remove and place in dessert dish. Drizzle with honey and
  top with dollop of whipped cream. Continue to fry balls one at a
  time. Balls will be crunchy on outside and just beginning to melt
  inside.
  
  Makes 4 to 5 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vanilla Popcorn
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Popcorn
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Corn oil
      1    Split vanilla bean
    3/4 c  Popping corn
      1 tb Superfine sugar
           Salt
      2 tb Melted butter
 
  Servings: 6
  
  In a large heavy pot, heat corn oil over high heat until the oil
  smokes. Add 1 kernel popping corn and heat until kernel pops.  Add
  vanilla bean and rest of popping corn, cover pot, and shake gently
  until corn starts to pop. Shake vigorously until popping subsides.
  Remove from heat. Remove vanilla bean and toss popcorn with sugar,
  salt, and melted butter. Scrape seeds from vanilla bean and add to
  popcorn.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Popcorn
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Popcorn
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Corn oil
    3/4 c  Popping corn
           Zest of 1 lemon
           Salt
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Melted butter
 
  Servings: 6
  
  In a large heavy pot, heat corn oil over high heat until the oil
  smokes. Add 1 kernel popping corn and heat until kernel pops.  Add
  rest of popping corn, cover pot, and shake gently until corn starts
  to pop.  Shake vigorously until popping subsides. Remove from heat.
  Mix lemon juice with melted butter. Toss popcorn with lemon zest,
  salt, and butter/lemon juice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saffron Buttered Popcorn
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Popcorn
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Corn oil
    3/4 c  Popping corn
           Salt
    1/4 ts Finely chopped saffron
           -threads
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  Servings: 6
  
  In a large heavy pot, heat corn oil over high heat until the oil
  smokes. Add 1 kernel popping corn and heat until kernel pops.  Add
  rest of popping corn, cover pot, and shake gently until corn starts
  to pop.  Shake vigorously until popping subsides. Remove from heat.
  Heat melted butter with saffron threads for 1 minute. Toss popcorn
  with salt and butter/saffron.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic and Parmesan Popcorn
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Popcorn
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Corn oil
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Garlic cloves, split
    3/4 c  Popping corn
           Salt
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan
      1    Garlic clove, minced
           Ds      cayenne pepper
 
  Servings: 6
  
  In a large heavy pot, heat corn oil and olive oil over high heat
  until the oil smokes.  Add 1 kernel popping corn and heat until
  kernel pops. Add split garlic cloves and rest of popping corn, cover
  pot, and shake gently until corn starts to pop.  Shake vigorously
  until popping subsides. Remove from heat.  Remove garlic and toss
  popcorn with Parmesan, minced garlic, cayenne and salt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three-Pepper Popcorn
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Popcorn
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Corn oil
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Garlic cloves, split
    3/4 c  Popping corn
           Salt
      1    Garlic clove, minced
           Ds      cayenne pepper
      2 ts Black pepper, coarsely
           -ground
    1/4 c  Hot pepper sauce
      2 tb Butter, melted
 
  Servings: 6
  
  In a large heavy pot, heat corn oil and olive oil over high heat
  until the oil smokes.  Add 1 kernel popping corn and heat until
  kernel pops. Add split garlic cloves and rest of popping corn, cover
  pot, and shake gently until corn starts to pop.  Shake vigorously
  until popping subsides. Remove from heat.  Remove garlic. Mix hot
  pepper sauce with melted butter. Toss popcorn with minced garlic,
  cayenne, black pepper, salt and hot pepper/butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Popcorn with Basil and Sun-Dried Tomatoes
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Popcorn
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Corn oil
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Garlic cloves, split
    3/4 c  Popping corn
           Salt
    1/4 c  Grated aged provolone
      6    Finely chopped oil-cured
           -sun-dried tomatoes
      1 tb Oil from the tomatoes
     12    Finely chopped basil leaves
           Ds      cayenne pepper
 
  Servings: 6
  
  In a large heavy pot, heat corn oil and olive oil over high heat
  until the oil smokes.  Add 1 kernel popping corn and heat until
  kernel pops. Add split garlic cloves and rest of popping corn, cover
  pot, and shake gently until corn starts to pop.  Shake vigorously
  until popping subsides. Remove from heat.  Remove garlic. Toss
  popcorn with provolone, tomatoes, oil, salt and chopped basil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Cheese Potatoes Au Gratin #2
 Categories: Pork, Cheese/eggs, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 c  Sliced peeled potatoes,
           -cooked
      1 c  Diced cooked ham
      1 tb Minced onion
    1/3 c  Butter or margarine
      3 tb All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Shredded cheddar cheese (4
           -oz.)
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 ds White pepper
           Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Combine potatoes, ham and onion in a greased 1-qt casserole; set
  aside. In a saucepan, melt butter or medium heat; stir in flour until
  smooth. Gradually add milk, stirring constantly until mixture
  thickens and bubbles. Add cheese, salt and pepper; stir until the
  cheese melts. Pour over potato mixture and stir gently to mix. Bake
  at 350 degrees for 35-40 minutes or until bubbly. Garnish with
  parsley. Yield 2 servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Novella Cook, Hinton, WV, Reminisce Magazine Nov/Dec 92
  SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 3/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Cheese Puff
 Categories: Bread, Cheese/eggs, Chili
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5    Eggs
    1/4 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Cottage cheese
      2 c  Shredded Monterey Jack
           -cheese (8oz)
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine, melted
      1 cn (4oz) chopped green chilies,
           -drained
 
  In a large mixing bowl, beat eggs well.  Stir in next five
  ingredients. Add green chilies.  Pour into a greased 8 inch square
  baking pan.  Bake at 350 F for 40-45 minutes or until a knife
  inserted near the center comes out clean. Serve immediately. Makes
  6-8 servings.
  
  Origin: Mariane White, in Reminisce March/April 1993 Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Horseradish Cheese Spread
 Categories: Appetizer, Spread, Cheese/eggs, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Processed cheese, cut into
           -cubes
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Horseradish
 
  assorted crackers
  
  Melt cheese in the top of a double boiler or microwave. Stir in
  mayonnaise and horseradish. Pour into a small crock or ceramic bowl.
  Chill. Serve with crackers.  Makes about 2-1/2 cups.
  
  Origin: Margie Wampler, in Reminisce March/April 1993 Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Emerald Isle Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Alcohol
      Yield: 9 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine,
           -softened
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  1 3/4 c  All purpose flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk
           GLAZE:
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
      1 tb To 2 tb milk OR Irish
           -Whiskey
 
  Green food coloring, optional slivered almonds, optional
  
  In amixing bowl, cream butter and sugar.  Add eggs, one at a
  time,beating well after each addition. Blend in vanilla. combine
  baking powder and salt; add alternately with the milk. Beat until
  smooth. Spread into a greased 9x9 inch square pan. Bake at 350 F for
  40 minutes or until cake test done. For glaze, combine confectioner's
  sugar and milk or whiskey, stirring until smooth and fairly thin. If
  desired, add 1-2 drops of food coloring and stir until well blended.
  Spread glaze over warm cake. Sprinkle with almonds if desired. Makes
  9-12 servings.
  
  Origin: Evelyn Kenney in Reminisce March/April 1993. Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Cream Cheese Pastry
 Categories: Dessert, Herbs/spice, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Ground cayenne
      1 c  (2 sticks) unsalted butter,
           -chilled
      6 oz Cream cheese, at room
           -temperature
 
  In a bowl, combine the flour, salt, and cayenne pepper and stir
  together. Using a pastry blender or two knives, cut in the butter and
  cream cheese to form a soft dough.  Alternatively, combine the dry
  ingredients in a food processor.  Add the butter and cream cheese and
  process with short pulsesuntil the dough just sicks together. Gather
  the dough into a ball, enclose in plastic wrap or waxed paper, and
  chill for at leat 30 minutes or for up to several hours. Makes top
  crust for 1 large pot pie, or 3 individual ones.
  
  Origin: Cookbook Digest Jan/Feb 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaetzle
 Categories: Pasta, German
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ds Nutmeg
      2    Eggs, slightly beaten
    1/2    To 3/4 c milk
      8 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  SOURCE: Natl Cooking Echo 19 Jun 90
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng Originally from: Pillsbury
  
  Also, care to swap spaetzle recipes? Here's mine, from Pillsbury.
  They're delicious with chicken paprikash or in a minestrone-style
  soup.
  
  SPAETZLE
  
  Lightly spoon flour into measuring cup; level off. In large bowl,
  combine flour, 1/4 tsp salt and nutmeg. By hand, beat eggs into flour
  mixture. Gradually adding milk, stirring constantly until mixture
  forms a smooth, soft, moist dough. If dough is too thick, add
  additional milk 1 T at a time. Dough should easily flow through holes
  in a colander when pressed with a spoon.
  
  In large pot, bring water and remaining salt to a boil. Press spaetzle
  dough, a small amount at a time, through colander with large holes
  (not slits), or drop by 1/4 tspful, into the boiling water. After
  water returns to a boil, cook uncovered for 5-7 minutes or until
  tender, stirring occasionally. Remove with a slotted spoon; drain.
  Repeat with the remaining dough. Use in soups, stews, tossed in with
  veggies, or as a buttered side dish. Makes 2-1/2 cups. Can be made a
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marianne's Kolachkies
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Butter, softened
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg, beaten
      2 cn Solo filling (apricot,
           -poppyseed, raspberry,
           -almond, etc.)
 
  SOURCE: Natl Cooking Echo 19 Jun 90
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng Originally from: Mom's Polish
  Neighbor
  
  Well, I finally found that recipe I told you about, and another one
  that's slightly different. Neither is anything like the ones I saw
  posted on the echo the past few days. The first one is tried and true
  from my mom's Polish neighbor. The second is from the folks who make
  the Solo filling.
  
  MARIANNE'S KOLACKIES
  
  Cream butter and cream cheese together. Add egg, vanilla; then mix in
  the flour. Cover and chill for a few hours to overnight. Roll out on
  lightly floured board to 1/4" thickness and cut with round cookie
  cutters. Place them on a cookie sheet as you would cookies. Use thumb
  to make indentation in center of each. Fill with about 1 tsp of
  desired filling. Bake at 350 F until lightly golden, about 10-15
  minutes (guessing here, I just do it by sight).
  
  Makes enough for a whole house of hungry Polish people at Christmas or
  Easter time! For ordinary folks (as Justin Wilson would quip), I'd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kolachky
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Sticks butter, softened
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Sugar
      1    Egg yolk, beaten
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 cn Solo filling
 
  SOURCE: Natl Cooking Echo 19 Jun 90
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng Originally from: Solo company
  
  KOLACHKY from Solo Filling Recipe
  
  Cream butter, cream cheese, milk & sugar together. Add egg yolk. Sift
  together flour and bakin powder. Add to creamed mixture and blend
  well. Refrigerate for several hours or overnight. Turn dough out on
  lightly floured board and roll to 1/4" thickness. Cut with a cookie
  cutter and make a depression with thumb in center of each. Place 1
  tsp of filling in each center. Bake at 400 F for 10-12 minutes or
  until
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tassies
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine,
           -softened
      3 oz Pkg. cream cheese, softened
      1 c  Flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 ts Butter, melted
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
      1 lg Or 2 sm eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
 
  SOURCE: Natl Cooking Echo 19 Jun 90
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng Originally from: the back of
  the Mrs. T's Tart Tamper
  
  This is the tassie recipe from the back of the Mrs. T's Tart Tamper I
  got at Lechter's (discount housewares store). The tamper is only
  $2.89 and well worth it! It makes perfect little tarts quickly every
  time. Oh, and you'll need a mini-muffin pan or two. (My nieces and
  nephews love the little bite sized cranberry nutbread gems I bring
  for them at Thanksgiving.)
  
  TASSIE DOUGH
  
  Mix butter and margarine well, then add flour and mix to a soft dough.
  Chill at least 1 hour or overnight.
  
  PECAN TASSIE FILLING
  
  Fill tarts with chopped nuts 'til about 1/2 full. Mix other
  ingredients and spoon on top of nuts, so that tarts are now about 3/4
  full. Bake at 350 F for 15 minutes, then at 250F for 30 minutes, or
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: More Fillings for Tassies
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  6 1/2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2    Eggs
    1/4    To 1/2 tsp lemon peel
 
  SOURCE: Natl Cooking Echo 19 Jun 90
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng
  
  I haven't made these lemon ones yet, but I scaled down a larger
  recipe from some cookbook to resemble the pecan tassie proportions,
  hoping to have enough lemon filling for a batch of tartlets. So it
  may or may not be enough, thought I'd let ya know.
  
  LEMON TASSIE FILLING
  
  In a small saucepan over low heat, cook the 1 st three until
  dissolved. Beat the eggs with a mixer and add the hot mix very
  slowly, mixing constantly. Then return mix to the saucepan and cook
  for about 3 minutes until it's of pudding consistency. Stir in lemon
  peel. Let cool to room temp. Fill each tartlet with about 2 tsps of
  the lemon mix. Bake at 350 F for 20-25 mins., or until golden.
  
  The back of the tart tamper package also suggested some other
  fillings, like cherry or blueberry pie filling, or vanilla pudding
  topped afterwards with a strawberry or a few blueberries (glaze with
  some heated currant jelly).
  
  Or make hors d'oeuvres by filling with your favorite quiche recipe, or
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Tomato and Garlic Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 T  Roasted Garlic (see recipe)
      8    Medium tomatoes
      2 t  Olive oil
      3 T  Flour (all-purpose)
      1    Large onion, chopped--about
           1 1/2 cups
      2    14 oz. cans clear veg. broth
      1 c  Skim milk
    1/2 t  Ground thyme
    1/2 t  Sugar
    1/2 t  Salt
    1/4 t  White pepper
 
  Heat the oven to broil.  Slice the tomatoes in half and squeeze out
  the seeds and juice.  Place skin side up on a jellyroll pan.  Broil
  for 10 minutes, or until skins blister and blacken.  Remove from oven
  and allow to cool slightly.  Skins will slip off easily; discard.
  Place the tomatoes in a food processor or blender and puree.
  
  In a Dutch oven, heat the oil over medium heat.  Satue the onions
  until soft, then sprinkle evenly with flour.  Stir with a whisk and
  cook for 1 minute longer.  Stir in the tomato puree and vegetable
  broth and cook, stirring frequently, until the mixture comes to a
  boil.  Add the roasted garlic, thyme, white pepper, salt and sugar.
  Simmer for 10 to 20 minutes.
   Turn off heat and stir in the reserved milk.  Makes 8 (1-cup)
  servings. From the Orlando Sentinel.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken in Wine and Tomato Sauce (Poulet Marengo)
 Categories: French, Poultry, Vegetable, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb CHICKEN,CUT INTO SERVING PIE
           Salt & pepper
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Mushrooms,thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onions
    1/2 ts Finely minced garlic
      1    Bay leaf
      2    Sprigs fresh thyme
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      2 c  Cored and diced tomato
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      2    Sprigs fresh parsley
 
  1. Sprinkle the chicken with salt and pepper to taste. Heat the
  butter and oil in a heavy skillet and add  the chicken pieces, skin
  side down. Cook until golden brown on one side, about 5 min. Turn the
  pieces and cook on the other side about 2 min. 2. Pour off the fat
  from the skillet, then scatter the mushrooms over the chicken. add
  the onion,garlic,bay leaf and thyme and cook about 5 min. 3. Add the
  wine and stir well. add the tomatoes,tomato paste,chicken broth and
  parsley. bring to a boil. cover and simmer for 10 min. 4. dicard the
  herbs before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Chicken with Mustard (Poulet Grille a la Moutarde
 Categories: French, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Very small potatoes
      1    Large carrot
      4    Small white onions
           Salt & pepper
      4 lb Chicken split for broiling
      2 tb Dijon or dusseldorf mustard
      2 tb Peanut oil
      2 tb Butter
    1/3 lb Mushrooms
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
 
  1. Preheat the broiler. 2. Peel the potatoes. If they are not very
  small,cut them in half. Put them in a saucepan and cover with water.
  3. Trim and peel the carrot. Cut into 2-in. lenght, then cut into
  quarters. Peel the onions and cut them in half. Add the carrots and
  onions to the potatoes. Add salt to taste and bring to a boil. Let
  stand 10 min. 4. Meanwhile, sprinkle the chicken halves with salt and
  pepper. Brush on all sides with mustard. Arrange the halves side by
  side in a baking dish, skin side down. Sprinkle with the oil. Place
  under the broiler and cook for 10 min. 5. Drain the vegetables. Melt
  the butter in a skillet and when quite hot but not brown, add the
  vegetables. Cook over relativly high heat, shaking the skillet and
  stirring the vegetables. Add the mushrooms and sprinkle with salt and
  pepper to taste. Continue cooking, shaking the skillet and stirring
  occasionally, about 7-8 min. 7. Pour off all the fat from the baking
  dish and turn chicken halves again. 8. Turn then oven heat to 400.
  Place the dish in the oven and bake 10 min. 9. Place the dish on top
  of the stove. Add the vinegar to the liquid and cook for a few
  seconds over high heat,stirring. Sprinkle with parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poached Chicken in Cream Sauce with Rice
 Categories: French, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Chicken,trussed
      5 c  Water or chicken broth
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Small onion,peel and stick t
      2    Allspice berries
      1    Large carrot,peeled and hald
      3    Large stalks celery
      6    Black peppercorns
      2    Sprigs fresh thyme
           Salt and pepper
      1 c  Rice
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Heavy cream
    1/2    Juice of lemon
    1/8 ts Grated nutmeg
           Pinch of cayenne
 
  1. Place the chicken in a small kettle or large saucepan and add the
  water,bay leaf,onion with
  cloves,allspice,carrot,celery,peppercorns,thyme and salt to
  taste.Bring to a boil and partly cover. Simmer 30 min. 2. Remove the
  chicken,carrot,and celery from the kettle and keep hot.Strain the
  cooking liquidand reserve it.Discard the flavorings. 3. Place the
  rice in the saucepan and add 2 c. of the reserved cooking liquid.
  Bring to a boil,cover and cook 20 min. 4. Meanwhile,melt the butter
  in another saucepan and add the flour, stirring with a wire whisk.
  Add 1 c. of the reserved chicken cooking liquid,stirring rapidly with
  the wire whisk. Cook for 5 min. Stir in the cream and continue
  cooking about 10 min. Add the lemon juice,nutmeg,cayenne and salt and
  pepper to taste. 5. Untruss the chicken and remove the skin(except
  the wing skin). Cut the carrot and celery into 2-in pieces. 6.
  Arrange the rice on a warm serving platter. Place the chicken,carrots
  and celery on the rice. Spoon the sauce over the chicken and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken with Cucumber and Saffron
 Categories: French, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Boneless chick breast
      1 lb Ripe tomatoes
      2    Large cucumbers
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Olive oil
    3/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Loosely packed saffron
 
  1. Cut each chicken breast in half. Discard peripheral fat and
  membranes. 2. Core the tomatoes and cut them into 1/2-in cubes. There
  should be about 2 1/2 c. loosely packed. 3. Peel the cucumbers and
  trim off the ends. Cut the cucumbers into 1 1/2-in lenghts and
  quarter the pieces lenghtwise. Discard nthe seeds. There should be
  about 3 c. loosely packed. Season with salt and pepper. 4. Heat the
  oil in a large, heavy skillet and add the chicken breasts in one
  layer. Cook over moderately high heat, shaking the pan nand lifting
  the pieces, about 2 min. or until golden brown. Turn the pieces and
  cook 3 min. on the other side. Transfer to a warmed dish and keep
  hot. 5. Add the onion and the garlic to the skillet and cook,
  stirring, for 1 min. Add the tomatoes and stir. Cook 1 min., then add
  the wine and broth. Stir to blend and cook 1 min. more. 6. Add the
  cucumber pieces and any liguid that has accumulated around the
  chicken pieces on the plate. Add salt and pepper to taste. Cook over
  high heat about 6 min. 7. Return the chicken to the skillet and turn
  to coat with the sauce. Add the saffron. Cover the skillet and cook 4
  min. Then serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken with Onions and Red Wine Sauce(Poulet Au Vin Roug
 Categories: Poultry, French, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Chicken,cut into serving pc.
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Corn oil
    1/4 lb White onions peeled
  1 1/2 c  Dry red wine
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Finely chooped parsley
 
  1. Set the chickens backbone aside for later use or discard it.
  Sprinkle the remaining pieces of chicken with  salt and pepper.
  Dredge lightly in flour. Shake off any excess flour. 2. Heat the oil
  in a heavy skillet large enough to hold the chicken pieces in one
  layer. Add the chicken pieces, skin side down, and the onions. Cook
  until nicely browned on one side, 4-5 min. Turn the pieces and
  continue cooking about 4 min. 3. Pour off the fat from the skillet.
  Add the wine, thyme and bay leaf. Cover closely and cook about 15
  min. 4. Uncover and transfer the chicken pieces and the onions to a
  warm serving dish.. Remove and discard the bay leaf. 5. To the wine
  sauce add the butter and swirl it around until melted. Pour the sauce
  over the chicken and sprinkle with the chopped parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken with Winter Vegetables
 Categories: French, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Skinless chicken breast
           Salt and pepper
     16    Baby carrots
     16    Scallions
      8    Brussel sprouts
      1    Potato
    1/4 lb Parsnip
  4 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Horseradish,fresh
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
 
  1. Place the chicken breast halves on a flat surface and trim away and
  discard fat. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 2. Peel the carrots. If
  using large carrots, cut into sticks about 2-in. long and 1/2-in
  thick. Trim the root end from the scallions. Cut off most of the
  green part, leaving pieces about 3 inches long. Trim the sprouts. If
  they are large, cut them in half. 3. Peel the potato and cut into 3/4
  cubes. Put into bowl of cold water. 4. Peel the parsnip and cut into
  rectangles about 1-in long 1/2-in wide. 5. Put 4 cups broth in a
  large wide, kettle and add the carrots, sprouts, drained potato and
  parsnip. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Bring to a boil and let
  simmer 5-6 min. Add the chicken breast halves, in one layer, and the
  scallions. Cover and cook about 7 min. 6. Meanwhile, melt the butter
  in a saucepan and add the flour, stirring with a wire whisk. When
  blended and smooth, add the remaing broth, stirring rapidly with a
  wire whisk. Add the cream and bring to a boil, stirring. Add the
  horseradish, tabasco sauce, and salt and pepper to taste. 7. Sprinkle
  the chicken and vegetables with the parsley and serve with the
  horseradish sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Filet Mignon in Bordeaux Wine Sauce (Filet Mignon Bordela
 Categories: French, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Filet mignon,cut 1-in thick
           Salt and pepper
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Shallots chopped fine
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
    1/2 c  Brown sauce,or canned gravy
           Watercress for garnish
 
  1. Sprinkle the meat with salt and pepper to taste. Heat the oil in a
  large skillet, large enough to hold the slices in one layer. Brown
  the meat on both sides, about 1-2 min. to a side. Or cook longer if
  you prefer meat well done. 2. Transfer the meat to a heated serving
  platter and keep warm. 3. Pour off the fat from the skillet. Add 1
  tbsp of the butter and when it is hot, add the shallots. Cook
  briefly, stirring, then add the wine. Cook until almost reduced by
  half. Stir in the brown sauce and cook about 2 min. 4. Put the sauce
  through a fine strainer into a small saucepan. Add salt and pepper to
  taste. Swril in the remaining butter. Spoon the sauce over the meat
  and garnish with watercress.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fricassee of Chicken with Tarragon
 Categories: French, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  3 1/2 lb Chicken,cut into servings
           Salt and pepper
      3 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Onion,finely chopped
      1 ts Minced garlic
      1 tb Tarragon
      2 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1    Carrot rough chopped
    1/4 lb Mushrooms
      1 c  Heavy cream
 
  1. Sprinkle the chicken pieces with salt and pepper. Heat the butter
  in a large, heavy skillet large enough to hold the chicken pieces in
  one layer. Add the chicken and cook, turning occasionally, without
  browning, about 5 min. 2. Add the onion,garlic and tarragon and stir
  well. Sprinkle with the flour, stirring to distribute the flour
  evenly. Add the water, carrot and mushrooms. Cover and cook about
  15-20 min. 3. Remove the chicken pieces, carrot and mushrooms to a
  warmed serving dish and keep hot. 4. Let the sauce cook down,
  stirring often, about 5 min. 5. Add the cream and salt and pepper to
  taste. Simmer about 3 min. Pour a little sauce over the chicken and
  serve the rest separately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Cubed Veal in Cream Sauce
 Categories: French, Veal
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Lean veal
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
    1/4 c  Butter
      3 tb Finely chopped shallots
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
      2 ts Finely chopped parsley
      1 ts Finely chopped tarragon
    1/2 ts Finely chopped chives
 
  1. Line a small mixing bowl with a sieve large enough to hold the
  meat. 2. Cut the veal into 1/2-in cubes. Spinkle with salt and
  pepper. 3. Heat half the oil in a heavy skillet and when it is very
  hot and just starting to smoke, add half the meat. Do not crowd the
  meat. Cook over high heat, stirring, until the meat is lightly brown,
  about 1 1/2 min. Pour the meat into a sieve. 4. Add the remaing oil
  to the skillet and when it is just starting to smoke, add the
  remaining meat. Cook as above. Pour the meat into the sieve. Pour out
  the oil from the bowl. 5. Wipe out the skillet. Add half of the
  butter and when it has melted, add the shallots. Cook
  briefly,stirring. Add the wine and cook until it has reduced by half
  or slightly more. 6. Add the cream and any liquid that has
  accumulated from the meat. Cook down over high heat about 2 min. Add
  the meat, turn to coat in the sauce and reheat. Swirl in the
  remaining butter. Sprinkle with the parsley, tarragon, and chives.
  
    French name:Emince` de veau a` la suisse
                An ideal accompaniment for this dish is spatzle or
  Swiss-tyle dumplings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Veal Steak with Paprika
 Categories: Veal
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Veal steaks
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Flour
      3 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/3 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  1. Sprinkle the meat on both sides with salt and pepper. Dredge on
  both sides with flour. 2. Heat the butter in a heavy skillet and cook
  the meat on one side until golden brown, about 5 min. Turn and cook
  on the other side  about 5 min. Remove the meat and keep warm. 3. To
  the skillet add the onion and garlic. Cook until onion is wilted. Add
  the mushrooms and paprika and cook until the mushrooms are tender,
  about 5 min. Sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste. Add the wine and
  cook until it has almost evaporated. 4. Stir in the sour cream  and
  heat without boiling. Return the meat to the skillet. Turn it in the
  sauce, and serve with the sauce spooned over.
  
  This dish:Steak de veau hongroise This dish goes extremly well with
  noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Chops with Apples and Calvados
 Categories: French, Veal, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Veal loin chops
      2 ts Dried sage
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Corn oil
      2    Apples,golden delicious
      2 tb Calvados or applejack
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Cornstarch
      2 ts Water
      2 tb Cream
 
  1. Sprinkle the chops on both sides with the sage and salt and pepper
  to taste. 2. Heat the butter and oil in a heavy skillet large enough
  to hold the chops in one layer. Add the chops and cook about 10 min.
  on each side. 3. Meanwhile, core the apples and cut into thick rings.
  4. Remove the chops to a warmed serving platter and keep hot. 5. Add
  the apple rings to the skillet and cook until golden brown on both
  sides and only just tender. Do not overcook. Remove and arrange
  around the chops. 6. Add the Calvados and broth to the skillet and
  bring to a boil, scraping the sediment from the bottom of the pan.
  Cook down until reduced by half. 7. Blend the cornstarch with the
  water. Add to the sauce and cook, stirring, until thickened. Stir in
  the cream. Add salt and pepper to taste. Spoon the sauce over the
  chops.
  
  The name for this great dish is :Cotes de veau aux pommes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Scaloppine and Mozzarella Rolls
 Categories: Italian, Veal
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Can imported tomatoes
      8    Slices scaloppine of veal
    1/2 ts Finely chopped rosemary
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 lb Mozzarella chesse
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic,minced
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Chopped parsley
    1/4 c  Grated parm cheese
 
  1. Place the tomatoes in a heavy saucepan and bring to a boil. Let
  cook until thickened and reduce to 3 cups. 2. Pound the meat lightly
  with a flat mallet without breaking the fibers. Place the slices on a
  flat surface and sprinkle with rosemary, and salt and pepper to
  taste. Cut the mozzarella into 8 thin "fingers" of equal size. Place
  one finger in the center of each veal slice. Fold over the edges,
  then roll, envelope fashion, to enclose the cheese. Tie each roll
  neatly with string in two places. 3. Preheat the oven to 400. 4. Heat
  the oil in a heavy skillet. Add the veal rolls and brown quickly and
  evenly over high heat, about 4 min. Transfer the rolls to a baking
  dish and remove the string. 5. To the skillet add the garlic and cook
  briefly. Add the wine and stir to dissolve the brown particles that
  cling to the bottom and sides of the pan. Add the cooked down
  tomatoes, and salt and pepper to taste. Cook 5 in.,then stir in the
  parsley. 6. Pour the tomato sauce over the veal rolls and sprinkle
  with parm cheese. Bake 10-15 min. until piping hot.
  
  A nice dry red wine that goes with this meal would be Valpolicella or
  Bardolino.
  
  The name for this dish: Escalope de veau au Mozzarella
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scaloppine If Veal with Herbs
 Categories: French, Veal
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     16    Thin scaloppine of veal
           Salt and pepper
      6 tb Butter
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      2 ts Chopped tarragon
      2 ts Chopped chives
 
  1. Place the meat on a flat surface and pound lightly. Sprinkle on
  both sides with salt and pepper to taste. 2. Heat 4 tbsp butter in 1
  or 2 large skillets (using 1 skillet will require cooking in 2
  batches) and when it is very hot add the pieces of veal. Cook
  briefly, about 45 sec. on each side. As the pieces brown, transfer
  them to a warm platter. 3. Add the remaining butter to the skillet
  and stir in the parsley, tarragon and chives. Pour this sauce over
  the veal and serve hot. This dish is named: Escalopes de veau aux
  fines herbes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Scaloppine with Zucchini and Cream
 Categories: French, Veal, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Scaloppine of veal 1/2lb ea.
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Onion chopped fine
  1 1/4 c  Zucchini,julienne cut
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Lemon slice for garnish
 
  1. Place the scaloppine on a flat surface and pound lightly with a
  flat mallet until quite thin. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. 2. Heat
  the butter in a large heavy skillet and add the veal. Cook over
  moderateheat about 3-4 min. on each side. Remove and keep hot. 3. Add
  the onion and zucchini to the skillet and cook, stirring, until the
  onion is wilted. 4. Add the wine to stir and blend. Bring to a boil
  and cook down until the liquid is reduced by about 1/3. 5. Stir in
  the cream and bring back to a boil. Add salt and pepper to taste. 6.
  Return the veal to the skillet and turn to coat with the sauce.
  Reheat briefly. 7. Transfer the veal and sauce to a warmed serving
  platter. Sprinkle with the parsley and garnish with lemon slices.
  This dish named: Escalopes de veau aux courgettes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops in Tomato Sauce with Oregano
 Categories: Pork, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Plum tomatoes,diced
    1/4 c  Water
           Salt and pepper
      4    Loin pork chops
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Chopped garlic
  1 1/2 c  Mushrooms,thin sliced
  1 1/2 c  Green pepper, 1-in cut
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Oregano
 
  1. Put the tomatoes, with the water and bring to a boil. Cook,
  stirring occasionally, until reduced to about 1 1/2 cups. Add the
  salt and pepper to taste, set aside. 2. Sprinkle the chops with salt
  and pepper. 3. Heat the oil in the skillet and add the chops. Brown
  on both sides, about 5 min. to a side. Add the garlic, mushrooms and
  green peppers. Coover closely and cook about 5 min. 4. Stir in the
  wine, tomatoes and oregano. Cover closely and cook 35-40 min. Serve
  with buttered noodles sprinkled with parm cheese.
  
  The name for this dish:  Cotes de porc "pizzaiola
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Loin Pork Chops with Apples
 Categories: French, Pork, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Loin chops 1-in thick
      2    Pinch of salt
      1 tb Peanut oil
      1    Clove, garlic
      2    Apples,peeled,cored and 1/4d
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    1/3 c  Chicken broth
 
  1. Sprinke the chops with the salt. 2. Heat the oil in a heavy
  skillet, large enough to hold both chops and apples - when they are
  added - in one layer. 3. Add the chops and the garlic to the skillet
  and brown well on one side, about 5 min. Turn and brown on the other
  side, about 10 min. 4. Push the chops aside and add the apples in one
  layer. Continue cooking 15 min., turning the apples so that they
  brown and cook evenly. 5. Remove the chops and apples to a warm
  serving dish. 6. Pour off the fat from the skillet. Add the wine,
  stirring to dissolve the brown particles that cling to the bottom and
  sides of the pan. Add the broth and simmer down to a saucelike
  cocsistency. Discard the garlic. 7. Pour the sauce over the chops and
  apples and serve. This great dish is named: Filets de porc aux pommes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Pork Chops with Sour Cream Sauce
 Categories: French, Pork, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb 4 center-cut loin chops
      1 tb Corn oil
    1/4 c  Carrots, chopped
    1/4 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Onions, chopped
      1 tb Garlic, minced
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Sprigs of fresh parsley
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Capers, drained
 
  1. Heat the oil in a large skillet large enough to hold the chops in
  one layer. Add the chops and cook until golden brown on both sides,
  about 5 min. 2. Scatter the carrots, celery, onion, garlic, thyme,
  bayleaf and parsley around the chops. Cover and cook 10 min. 3. Blend
  the wine, chicken broth and tomato paste and add to the skillet.
  Cover closely and cook about 25 min. longer, turning the chops once.
  4. Remove the chops and keep hot. Add the mustard and sour cream to
  the skillet and stir. Bring just to a boil, but do not boil or the
  sour cream will curdle. Put the sauce through a fine sieve, pressing
  down with a wooden spoon to extract the liquid flavorings from the
  vegetables. 5. Pour the sauce into a saucepan and add the capers.
  Reheat gently without boiling. 6. Spoon the sauce over the chops.
  
  This is great when you have guest over.
  
  This dish : Cotes de porc Esterhazy
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sole Fillets Stuffed with Crab
 Categories: Fish, Stuffing, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Sole,fillets about 8
      1 c  Crab meat
      1    Egg yolk
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 tb Bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Butter,melted
      2 tb Shallots,minced
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
 
  1. Preheat the broiler. 2. Place 4 fillets,(make sure there is no
  skin on the sole) skinned side up, on a flat surface. 3. Blend the
  crab, egg yolk,parsley and bread crumbs in a mixing bowl. Spoon equal
  portions of this mixture on to the centers of the fillets. Smooth the
  filling over, leaving a slight margin around it. 4. Take the
  remaining fillets, arrange them skinned side down, over the filling.
  Press lightly around the sides. 5. Rub the bottom of a flameproof
  dish with half the butter. Arrange the stuffed fish in a dish in one
  layer. Scatter the shallots around the fish. Brush the fish with the
  remaining butter, and pour the wine around the fish. 6. Place the
  dish on the stove. Bring the wine to a boil and let simmer about 10
  sec. Place the dish under the broiler, about 7-8 in. from the source
  of the heat. Cook, watching closely to prevent burning and turning
  the dish so that the fish cooks evenly. The total cooking time is
  about 6-8 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Salmon Fillets with Fennel Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Salmon fillets,boneless
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Water
      5 tb Butter,room temp.
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
    1/8 ts Cayenne
    3/4 lb Head of fennel
 
  1. Preheat the broiler. 2. Carefully inspect the fish to determine if
  any bones remain. Using a pair of pliers, carefully pull away and
  discard the bones. Cut the fillets into 4 equal portins, either
  rectangular or square in shape. Sprinkle with the oil and rub to coat
  on both sides. Set aside. 3. Trim the fennel and cut into 1/4-in.
  cubes. There should be about 1 1/2 cups. Put the fennel in a saucepan
  and add the water a 1 tbsp of the butter. Cook 5 min. 4. Pour the
  fennel mixture into the container of a food processor or blender and
  add the remaing butter. Process to a very fine puree. Ther should be
  about 1 1/4 cups. pour the puree into a small saucepan and bring to a
  boil. Add the nutmeg and cayenne and stir. Let simmer about 3 min. 5.
  Meanwhile, place the salmon pieces under the broiler about 4-in. from
  the source of heat. Cook about 4 min. on one side, turn and cook
  about 4 min. on the other side. 6. Transfer the salmon to a warm
  serving dish. Serve with hot fennel sauce spooned over or on the side.
  
  Salmon lovers here you go.
  
  Name for this dish: Filets de saumon sauce au fenouil
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swordfish Steaks with Oil and Lemon Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Oregano
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 lb Swordfish,cut into 1/2-in
           Pepper,black
 
  1. Preheat the broiler, or prepare charcoal for grilling. 2. Combine
  the lemon juice and oregano in a small mixing bowl. Blend well, then
  gradually add the oil while stirring with a whisk. Add a generous
  amount of black pepper. This sauce is known as a Salmoriglio sauce.
  3. When the broiler or charcoal grill is quite hot, place the fish
  steaks under the broiler or on the grill. The fish should be quite
  close to the source of heat so that it will cook quickly. 4. Cook
  about 1 min. on one side, then turn the fish steaks carefully but
  quickly and cook about 1 min. or slightly longer on the other side.
  Do not overcook or the fish steaks will become dry. 5. Transfer the
  fish steaks to a warmed platter and ladle the sauce over them.
  
  This dish is named: Pesce al salmoriglio
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef in Wine and Sour Cream Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef, cut into julienne
      1 tb Paprika
      2 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Onion,chopped
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Sour pickles, cut thin
 
  1. Sprinkle the meat with paprika and rub in well. 2. Heat the butter
  in a very hot skillet and add the meat, stirring to separate the
  pieces so that they cook evenly. Cook 2-3 min. Remove the meat with a
  slotted spoon. 3. Add the onion to the skillet and cook, stirring
  about 1 min. Add the wine and cook down to reduce by about one half.
  Lower the heat and add the sour cream, stirring. Do not allow the
  sauce to boil or the sour cream will curdle. 4. Return the meat to
  the skillet and stir to blend. Add the sour pickles and mix in well.
  Serve with rice, noodles or sauteed potatoes. If desired, garnish
  with pickle fans.
  
  This dish: Boeuf stroganoff
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Fondue
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Filet mignon or sirloin
           Cut about 1-in. thick
           Lettuce leaves
           Watercress
           Dijon mustard
           Selection of sauces
           Tomato sauce,green sauce
           Remoulade sauce,
           Scallion mayo, bernaise or
           Hollandaise sauce
           Vegetable oil for frying
 
  1. Trim any gristle from the steak, then cut into 1-in. cubes.
  Arrange the steak cubes on a platter or individaule plates. Garnish
  with lettuce leaves and watercress, if desired. 2. Spoon the mustard
  into a very small serving dish. 3. Spoon the sauces into individual
  serving dishes. 4. Half fill the metal - not pottery - fondue pot.
  Heat the oil in the pot ( or in a saucepan on top of the stove) until
  it is very hot and beginning to bubble. 5. Place the pot of oil on
  it's stand over the burner in the center of the table. Each diner
  cooks his own cube of meat on a long-handled fork. The meat is dipped
  into mustard or a sauce before eating.
  
  This dish: Fondue bourguignonne
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburgers with Gorgonzola Cheese
 Categories: Beef, Cheese/eggs, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Lean ground beef
    1/4 lb Gorgonzola or blue cheese
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Cognac
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced thin
    1/2 ts Garlic, minced
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  1. Place the beefm in a bowl. Add the cheese and blend well. Divide
  the mixture into 4 portions and shape into a flat patty, about 1-in.
  thick or slightly less. 2. Heat a skillet, preferably of cast iron.
  Do not add fat. When the skillet is very hot, add the patties and
  cook over moderately high heat 3-4 min. or until well browned on one
  side. Turn and continue cooking about 1-2 min. 3. Meanwhile, heat the
  butter in a separate skillet and add the mushrooms and garlic. Cook,
  tossing and stirring, about 2 min. or until golden brown. 4. Add the
  cognac to the patties and ignite it. Cook until the flame dies.
  Transfer the patties to a warm serving dish or plates. 5. Spoon the
  mushroom mixture over the patties and sprinkle with the chopped
  parsley.
  
  This dish: Steak hache au Gorgonzola
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburgers with Egg and Anchovy
 Categories: Beef, Fish, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground sirloin
      4 tb Plus 1/4 c butter
      4    Eggs
     12    Flat anchovy fillets
      2 tb Capers, drained
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  1. Divide the meat into 4 equal portions. Shape each first into a
  ball and flatten into patties., like broad hamburgers, about 4-in.
  across and 1/2-in thick. 2. The hamburgers may be cooked on a hot
  grill such as a barbecue grill, under a hot broiler, or a very hot
  skillet without additional fat. Cook 2-5 min. on each side, according
  to taste, to the desired degree of doneness. Transfer the hamburgers
  to 4 warmed plates. 3. Heat 1 tbsp of butter at a time in 1 or more
  small skillets and add an egg to each skillet. Cook, without turning,
  until the white is firm and the yolk remains soft and runny. Slip an
  egg, yolk side up, onto each hamburger. 4.Use the anchovy fillets
  either whole or split in half lenghtwise. Arrange the anchovies
  around the egg yolks in a triangular fasion. 5. Heat the 1/4 cup of
  butter in a skillet until it is foamy. Stir in the capers and
  parsley. When the foaming starts to subside and the butter begins to
  brown, pour equal amounts over each egg-topped hamburger.
  
  This dish: Steak hache avec oeufs a cheval
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Steak with Red Butter Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless sirloin steak
           About 1 1/2-in. thick
      2 tb Peanut oil
      6 tb Shallots, chopped
  1 1/2 c  Burgundy wine
    3/4 c  Butter
           Watercress for garnish
           Salt and pepper
 
  1. Preheat the broiler to high. 2. Rub the steak on both sides with
  the oil. 3. Sprinkle the steak with salt and pepper, using generous
  amounts of pepper. 4. Place the steak on the broiler rack and let it
  cook 4-5 min. from the source of heat. Broil 3-5 min., then turn the
  steak and broil on the side 3-5 min. Cooking tiome will depend on the
  desire degree of doneness. 5. Transfer the steak to a hot platter and
  cover loosely with foil. Let the steak stand in a warm place about 5
  min. to redistribute the internal juices of the meat. 6. Meanwhile,
  make the red butter sauce. Combine the shallots and wine in a
  saucepan and bring to a vigorous boil. Let the wine cook down to
  about 1/3 cup. 7. Continue cooking over high heat, stirring rapidly
  with a wire whisk, and adding the butter about 2 tbsp at a time.
  Season to taste with salt and pepper. 8. Slice the steak on the
  diagonal (across the grain of the meat) and garnish with watercress.
  Serve with red butter sauce.
  
  This dish: Steak grille au beurre rouge
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Porterhouse Steak with Red Wine Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Porterhouse steak
           About 2 1/2-in. thick
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Shallots, chopped
    1/2 c  Burgundy or cabernet
    1/2 c  Brown sauce or
           Canned brown beef gravy
 
  1. Select a very heavy skillet for this. A heavy, traditional black
  iron skillet is excellent. Sprinkle the steak on both sides with salt
  and pepper. Use a fairly generous amount of black pepper. Pat with
  the fingers to make the seasoning adhere. 2. Heat the oil in the
  skillet and when quite hot, add the steak. The primary goal is to
  sear the steak well on both sides over moderately high heat. Cook the
  steak on the first side about 5-7 min. until it is quite dark without
  burning. Turn the steak and cook about 10 min. on the other side,
  until quite dark but not burnt. 3. Reduce the heat slightly and turn
  the steak again. Cook about 10 min., then turn the steak again.
  Continue cooking, turning as necessary. The total cooking time
  recommended is about 45 min, from start to finish. 4. Remove the
  steak from the skillet and cover loosely with foil. Let rest so that
  the internal juices are redistributed. 5. Meanwhile, pour off the fat
  from the skillet. Wipe lightly with paper towels. Add 1 tbsp of
  butter to the skillet and stir to dissolve the browned particles that
  cling to the bottom. Add the shallots and cook briefly. 6. Add the
  wine and boil to reduce about 30 sec. Stir in the brown gravy and
  reduce to 2/3. Remove from the heat and swirl in the remaining
  butter. 7. To serve, spoon a little of the sauce onto each of 4 hot
  plates. Slice the steak and place the slices on the sauce.
  
  This dish: Bifteck marchand de vin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Shell Steak with Vinegar Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Filet mignon, fat removed
      2 tb Paprika
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Shallots, minced
 
  1. Cut the tenderloin into eight pieces. Sprinkle with paprika on both
  sides. 2. Heat the butter in the skillet and when it is very hot and
  almost brown, add the steaks in one layer. Cook about 2 min. on one
  side, then turn and cook about 2 min or until golden brown on the
  other side. Remove the steaks from the skillet and keep warm. 3. Pour
  off the fat from the skillet. Add the vinegar, stirring to dissolve
  the brown particles that cling to the bottom of the skillet. Cook
  until the vinegar has almost evaporated. 4. Add the cream. Cook,
  stirring over high heat until reduced almost by half. Add any juices
  that hace accumulated around the meat. 5. Return the steaks to the
  skillet and turn in the sauce. 6. Add the shallots and heat briefly.
  
  This dish: Bifteck au vinaigre
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: London Broil with Hunter's Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Flank steak
      2 tb Peanut oil
           Salt and pepper
      3 tb Butter
           Hunter's sauce for serving
      3 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  1. Preheat a broiler rack with the broiler set on high. 2. Rub the
  flank steak on both sides with oil and salt and pepper. Use generous
  amount of black pepper. 3. Place the meat on the broiler rack, and
  let cook about 4-5 in. from the source of the heat. Broil about 3-5
  min. and turn the meat. Broil on the other side 3-5 min. Cooking time
  will depend on the desired degree of doneness. 4. Transfer the steak
  to warmed serving platter and dot with butter. Let the steak stand in
  a warm place about 5 min. to redistribute the internal juices of the
  meat. 5. Juices will accumulate around the steak as it stands. Add
  these to the hunter's sauce. Sprinkle the meat with chopped parsley
  and carve it on the diagonal. Serve with the sauce.
  
  For hunter's sauce, the quickest way is to take some mushrooms and
  slice them thin. Then saute in a tbsp of butter. Once done add to a
  can of brown gravy or a brown sauce and a few black peppercorns.
  
  This dish: Bavette de boeuf sauce chasseur
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Baked with Yogurt
 Categories: Beef, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless sirloin steak
      6 tb Corn oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      6    Cloves,garlic minced
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/4 ts Cayenne
      1 tb Paprika
      1 c  Plain yogurt
 
  1. Preheat the oven to 350. 2. Remove any fat from the meat. Cut the
  meat into 1-in. cubes. 3. Heat the oil in a deep, flameproof baking
  dish, which has a lid, over medium heat. When the oil is hot, add as
  many meat cubes as will fit into the dish in one layer. Cook, turning
  the meat cubes, until browned on all sides. Set the browned meat
  aside on a plate and cook the remaining meat in the same way. 4. Add
  the onion and garlic to the dish and cook, stirring, for about 10
  min. or until the onion is browned. 5. Return the browned meat to the
  dish, with any juices that have drained onto the plate. Add the
  ginger, cayenne and paprika. Stir for 1 min. 6. Add the yogurt and
  bring to simmering point. 7. Cover the dish first with foil and then
  with a lid. Place in the oven and bake 15-20 min. or until the meat
  is tender. Stir the meat gently before serving.
  
  This dish: Dum gosht
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburgers with Mushrooms
 Categories: Beef, Meat, Mushroom, Burgers, Tomato
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Lean ground beef
           Salt and pepper
      3 tb Butter
    1/3 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      1 tb Shallots, minced
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  1. Divide the meat into 4 equal portions and shape into flatten
  rounds. Sprinkle both sides with salt and pepper. 2. Heat a skillet,
  preferably of black iron, until almost smoking. Add the patties and
  cook 3 min. or until nicely browned on one side. Turn and cook 2-3
  min. on the other side (or longer depending on doneness). Remove the
  patties to a warmed serving platter and keep hot. 3. Pour the fat
  from the pan. Add the butter and when hot, add the mushrooms. Cook,
  stirring, until they are teder and give up liquid. Cook until the
  liquid evaporates. 4. Sprinkle the mushrooms with the shallots and
  parsley and stir briefly to blend. Spoon the mushroom mixture onto
  the platter with the hamburgers.
  
  This dish: Steak hache provencale
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Filet Mignon with Medeira Wine Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Filet mignon
           4 filets,1/2 lb each
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Shallots, minced
    1/4 c  Medeira wine
    3/4 c  Fresh or canned beef broth
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Flour
      2 ts Parsley, chopped
 
  1. Heat the oil in a skillet and when very hot, add the meat. Cook
  over high heat for about 5 min. Cook longer if you want medium or
  well done. 2. Turn the meat and continue cooking over high heat about
  5 min. (or longer if meat is to be other then med-rare). Remove the
  meat to a warm platter and keep warm. Pour off the fat from the
  skillet. 3. Add the shallots and wine to the skillet and cook over
  high heat about 30 sec. Add the broth and bring to a rolling boil,
  stirring to dissolve the brown particles that cling to the bottom and
  sides of the skillet. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Cook
  until reduced by half. 4. Meanwhile, blend 2 tsp butter with the
  flour in a small mixing bowl. Stir into the simmering sauce and cook
  briefly until thicken. 5. Swirl in the remaining tsp of butter.
  Strain the sauce over the meat and dot the center of each filet with
  a dab of parsley. Serve immediately.
  
  This dish: Filet mignon sauce madere
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburgers with Goat Cheese
 Categories: Beef, Cheese/eggs, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef, very lean
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 lb Goat cheese
      1 tb Tarragon
 
  1. Preheat the broiler to high. 2. Divide the beef into 4 portions.
  Shape each portion into a patty about 1-in. thick. Sprinkle with salt
  and pepper. 3. Place a wire rack in a baking dish and arrange the
  patties on the rack. Put under the broiler, 1-2 in. from source of
  heat and leave the broiler door slightly open. Cook about 3 min. on
  the first side if you wish the meat to be rare. If you prefer it more
  well done, cook up to 6 min. on the first side. Turn the patties and
  continue cooking 2-4 min. 4. Meanwhile, crumble the cheese. 5. Top
  each patty with an equal portion of cheese, pressing it down lightly
  to keep it on the top of the meat. Return the cheese-topped patties
  to the broiler and broil about 2 min. or until the cheese is browned
  on top and partly melted. 6. Sprinkle with the tarragon.
  
  This dish: Steak hache au chevre
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steaks with Crushed Peppercorns
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Shell steaks 10 oz each
           Salt
      1 tb Peppercorns, black
      3 tb Corn oil
      5 ts Butter
      2 tb Shallots, chopped fine
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
 
  1. Sprinkle the steaks with salt. 2. Using a mallet or the bottom of a
  saucepan, crush the peppercorns but not to finely. Sprinkle the
  steaks with equal amounts of pepper on both sides. Press down with
  the hands to help the peppercorns adhere to the meat. 3. Heat the oil
  in a heavy skillet. When it is hot and almost smoking, add the
  steaks. Cook about 3 min., then turn the steaks over. Cook on the
  other side about 2 min., or longer, depending on how you like your
  steaks done. Remove the steaks to a warm platter and keep hot. 4.
  Pour the fat from the skillet. Add 2 tsp of butter to the skillet and
  when melted, add the shallots. Cook, stirring, until translucent. Add
  the wine and cook, stirring, until the wine is almost reduced. Stir
  in the cream and cook over high heat about 1 min. 5. Swril in the
  remaining butter. Pour the sauce over the steaks.
  
  This dish: Bifteck au poivre
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Medallions with Sour Cream Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Filet of beef
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, thin sliced
      1 tb Shallots, minced
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Capers
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Dill chopped fresh
 
  1. Trim all fat from beef. Cut the fillets into 12 crosswise pieces of
  equal size, about 1/2-in. thick. 2. Melt 2 tbsp of butter in a skillet
  large enough to hold the pieces comfortably without crowding. Add the
  pieces of filet and cook over moderately high heat about 35-40 sec.
  The pieces should be nicely browned on one side. Turn the pieces and
  cook about 30-45 sec. on the other side. 3. Immediately transfer the
  pieces to a warm serving platter. Add the mushrooms to the skillet
  and stir. Add the shallots and cook about 15 sec. Stir in the vinegar
  and capers. 4. Add the sour cream and stir well. Let the sauce come
  to a simmer. Add any juices that have accumulated around the steak on
  the serving platter. Remove the skillet from the heat and swril in
  the remaining butter. 5. Pour the sauce over and around the steak and
  sprinkle the dill on top.
  
  This dish: Medallions de boeuf a la scandinave
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Malaysian Stir-Fried Beef with Vegetables
 Categories: Beef, Vegetable, Asian, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Flank steak
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Brown sugar
      5 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
      1 c  Cauliflower, small florets
    1/2 c  Green pepper, thinly sliced
      1 c  Carrots, matchstick size
      1 c  Mushrooms, sliced thin
      1 c  Bean sprouts, fresh
      2 ts Ginger, fresh grated
      2 ts Garlic, minced
 
  1. Place the steak on a flat surface and, using a sharp knife, cut
  against the grain into slices about 2-in. wide. Slice each piece of
  steak horizontally into 2 or 3 pieces. Stack the slices and cut into
  1/4-in. strips. 2. Add the cornstrach to the steak and toss to coat.
  Place the steak in a bowl and sprinkle over the sugar and soy sauce.
  Set aside. 3. Heat 2 tbsp oil in a wok or large skillet and add the
  cauliflower, green pepper and carrot. Cook, stirring, until
  crisp-tender. 4. Add the mushrooms and cook, stirring, about 30 sec.
  longer. Add the bean sprouts and stir-fry for a few sec. longer. 5.
  Remove the vegetables with a slotted spoon and set aside. 6. Add the
  remaining oil to the wok or skillet. When it is very hot, add the
  ginger and garlic and cook, stirring, for a few sec. Add the steak
  and cook, shaking the wok and stirring the strips of steak to
  separate them and cook evenly, about 1-2 min. 7. Return the
  vegetables to the wok and toss quickly over high heat, then serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Stew with Capers and Olives
 Categories: Beef, Vegetable, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Currants, dried
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 c  Onions, chopped
      1 tb Garlic, mined
      1 c  Green pepper, chopped
    1/3 c  Stuffed green olives
  3 1/2 c  Capers, drained
      3 tb White vinegar
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      1    Bayleaf
           Tabasco sauce
      2 lb Ground round or chuck
      3 c  Tomatoes, peeled and chopped
 
  1. Place the currants in a bowl and cover with warm water. Set aside
  to soak. 2. Meanwhile, heat half the oil in a kettle and add the
  onion., garlic and green pepper. Cook, stirring, until wilted. Add
  the olives, capers, vinegar, cinnamon, cloves, bay leaf and tabasco
  sauce to taste. Cook, stirring occasionally, about 10 min. 3. While
  the vegetable mixture is cooking, heat the remaining oil in a skillet
  and add the meat. Cook, breaking up the meat with the side of a metal
  spoon to prevent lumps, until the meat loses its red color. 4. Add
  the meat to the vegetable mixture and stir to blend. 5. Drain the
  currants and add them. 6. Add the tomatoes. Cook, stirring often,
  about 45 min. Skim off the fat as it rises to the surface during
  cooking. 7. Serve hot with freshly cooked rice.
  
  This dish: Picadillo
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Beef with Tomatoes and Herbs
 Categories: Beef, Vegetable, Salsa/sauce, Meat, Tomato
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Chuck steak, lean
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Garlic, minced
    1/2 lb Onions, cut into 1-in. cubes
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, quartered
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Dry red wine
      2 c  Canned tomatoes
     24    Stuffed green olives
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1    Bay leaf
           Pinch of cayenne
    1/2 ts Saffron
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
 
  1. Trim the meat of all fat and cut into 1 1/2-in. cubes. 2. Heat the
  oil in a pressure cooker until almost smoking. Add the beef cubes and
  cook over high heat, stirring often, until lightly browned all over.
  3. Add the garlic, onion and mushrooms and stir. Sprinkle with the
  flour and stir to coat the pieces evenly. Add the wine, tomatoes,
  olives, thyme, bay leaf, cayenne and saffron. Bring to a boil,
  stirring well. Cover and add the pressure regulator. 4. Reduce the
  heat and cook according to the manufacturer's instructions, 20-25
  min. Uncover as directed. Pour the beef into a serving dish and
  sprinkle with the chopped parsley.
  
  This dish: Daube de boeuf provencale
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak Salad
 Categories: Beef, Salad, Vegetable, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 ea Shell steaks, 3/4lb each
      7 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 lb Yellow squash
    1/2 lb Zucchini
      1    Red pepper
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Tarragon
      1 c  Onion, thin sliced rings
      1 c  Corn kernals, cooked
  1 1/2 c  Boston lettuce, shredded
           Black pepper, fresh
 
  1. Preheat a charcoal grill (or broiler). 2. Brush both sides with 2
  tsp of the oil and set aside. 3. Trim the yellow sqush and zucchini.
  Cut into 1/2-in. sticks. There should be about 2 cups of each. Set
  aside. 4. Core and seed the red pepper, then cut lenghtwise into thin
  strips. 5. Bring enough water to boil in a saucepan to cover the
  sqush, zucchini and red pepper when added. Add the vegetables. When
  the water returns to a boil, drain and rinse quickly with cold water.
  6. Put the steaks on the grill, about 3 in. from source of heat.
  Broil 3-4 min. on one side. Turn and broil 2-3 min. on the other
  side. Remove from the grill. Trim off all fat from the steaks. Thinly
  slice the steaks across the grain. Set aside. Reserve any juices that
  flow from the meat. 7. Put the mustard in a mixing bowl, add the
  vinegar and stir with a wire whisk. Beat in the remaining oil
  gradually. Add the tarragon. 8. Add the onion rings, corn, squash,
  red pepper, steak and any steak juices. Stir to blend. Add a generous
  grinding of black pepper. Spoon the salad onto the corner of a
  serving dish. Garnish with the lettuce arranged around the salad.
  Serve at room temperature.
  
  This dish: Steak en salade
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak Sandwichs with Tartar Sauce
 Categories: Beef, Salsa/sauce, Bread, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Filet mignon
           4 filets 2-in. thick
      3 tb Corn oil
      4    Hamburger buns
      1 c  Tartar sauce
           Watercress sprigs
           For garnish
           Salt and pepper
 
  1. Preheat a charcoal grill (or use a skillet to cook the meat). 2.
  Pound the steaks lightly to flatten them. Sprinkle the steaks with
  salt and pepper on both sides and brush all over with oil. 3. Place
  the steaks on the grill and cook 1-2 min. on each side, depending on
  the desired degree of doneness. (Cook the same time in a skillet). 4.
  Split open the hamburger buns. Toast the cut surfaces of the buns
  until golden brown. 5. Arrange a steak in each bun piece and spoon
  tartar sauce over the steak. Garnish with watercress.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Vine Leaves
 Categories: Beef, Greek, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     20    Good-sized canned vine or
           Grape leaves in brine
    1/2 c  Lean beef, cooked and chop
      1    Clove of garlic, chopped
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Cooked rice
      2 tb Sscallions, chopped
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
           Salt and pepper
           Shredded lettuce for
           Garnish
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Wine vinegar
 
  1. Drain the vine leaves. Drop them into a saucepan of boiling water
  and blanch for 5 min. Drain well. 2. Place the beef in a bowl. Add
  the garlic, tomato paste, lemon juice and cinnamon and blend well.
  Stir in the rice, scallions, oregano and 1 tbsp parsley. Season with
  salt and pepper. 3. Spread the vine leaves on a clean, flat surface.
  Remove any stalks without tearing the leaves. 4. Place a spoonful of
  stuffing on each leaf and press the stuffing together to make it
  compact. Fold in the sides on each leaf and roll up neatly. arrange
  the rolls on a serving dish and garnish with shredded lettuce, if
  desired. 5. Place the oil and vinegar in a small bowl and blen well
  with a wire whisk. Sprinkle the rolls with the remaining parsley.
  
  This dish: Dolmades
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tex-Mex Steak and Tortillas
 Categories: Beef, Tex/mexican, Vegetable, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Boneless sirloin each about
           1/2-in. thick
    1/2 c  Corn oil
      3 ts Garlic, chopped
      4 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 lb Ripe tomatoes
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped fine
    1/4 c  Red chilies, chopped fine
    1/4 c  Coriander, chopped fine
     12    Flour tortillas
 
  1. Prepare a very hot charcoal fire. 2. There should be about 6
  individual steaks. Cut each of these in half. Blend the oil, 2 tsp
  garlic ans 3 tbsp vinegar in a flat dish. Add the steaks, turning to
  coat the pieces well. Set aside. 3. Core the tomatoes but do not peel
  them. Cut them into 1/4-in. cubes and put them in a mixing bowl. Add
  the onion, chilies, coriander, remaining garlic and vinegar. Blend
  well. Set this sauce aside. 4. Put about 4 slices of steak at a time
  on the hot grill and cook for 1 min. or less to a side, depending on
  the desired degree of doneness. Simultaneously, add a similar number
  of tortillas and cook them for a few sec. to a side just to heat
  through. Do not heat for for long or they will dry out. 5. Place one
  piece of steak in the center of a warm tortilla, spoon a little sauce
  over the meat and fold the side of the tortilla over the ends up to
  enclose the meat. Eat like a sandwich.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Beef
 Categories: Beef, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Filet of beef
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion, chopped fine
      1    Clove of garlic, minced
      1 ts Fresh grated ginger
    1/4 c  Chopped walnuts
      1 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Turmeric
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 ts Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Brown sauce or gravy
    1/3 c  Creamed coconut
    3/4 c  Boiling water
 
  1. Trim any fat from the beef and cut the meat into stips about 2-in.
  long and 1/4-1/2-in thick. 2. Heat the butter in a large skillet and
  add the strips of beef. Cook over high heat about 2-3 min., stirring
  to brown evenly. Remove the meat with a slotted spoon and set aside.
  3. Add the onion, garlic and ginger to the skillet and cook, until
  wilted. Add the walnuts, coriander, cumin, turmeric, red pepper
  flakes and sugar. Stir to blend. 4. Add the brown sauce or beef
  gravy. Dissolve the creamed coconut in the boiling water and add to
  the skillet. Cook gently for 3-4 min., stirring frequently. 5. Return
  the meat to the skillet and stir to mix with the sauce. Heat through
  gently.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Filet Mignons on a Potato Cake
 Categories: Beef, Vegetable, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Potatoes
      5 tb Butter
      4    Filet mignon, 6 oz each
      2 tb Brandy
      2 c  Botton mushrooms, quartered
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/3 c  Beef broth
    1/2 c  Sour cream
     12    Green olives, halved
           And pitted
      2 tb Corn oil
 
  1. Preheat the oven to 375. 2. Peel the potatoes and cut them into
  slices about 1/8-in. thick. As the potatoes are sliced, drop them
  into a bowl of cold water to prevent them discoloring. 3. Spread
  about 1 tsp of the butter over the bottom of a large heavy skillet
  with a overproof handle. Drain the potato slices and pat dry. Layer
  them in the skillet, spinkling the layers with small pieces of
  butter(using all but 2 tbsp). 4. Cover the skillet closely and cook
  on top of the stove over moderate heat about 20 min. Uncover and
  tranfer to oven. Bake 20 min. 5. Meanwhile, sprinkle the steaks with
  the brandy. Set aside. 6. Heat the remaining butter in a saucepan,
  add the mushrooms and thyme and cook until wilted. Add the broth and
  cook until reduced by 1/3. Add thge sour cream and olives. Remove
  from heat and set aside. 7. Drain the brandy from the steaks and
  reserve. Heat the oil in a heavy skillet and add the steaks. Cook
  over high heat about 3-4 min. on each side (or longer if you prefer
  your steaks medium to medium-well). Remove and keep hot. 8. Add the
  brandy to the skillet and cook, stirring to dissolve the brown
  particles that cling to the pan. Stir in the sour cream sauce and
  heat through without boiling. 9. Turn the potato cake onto a warmed
  serving dish. Arrange the steaks on top and spoon a little sauce over
  them. Serve the remaining sauce separately.
  
  This dish: Tournedos a la russe
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Tongue with Letils
 Categories: Beef, Vegetable, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 tb Butter
      1 c  Onion, chopped fine
      1 tb Garlic, minced
    1/4 lb Cooked ham,cut into very
           Small cubes(about 1/4 cup)
      1 lb Lentils
    3/4 c  Canned tomatoes
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
      5 c  Water
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Thyme
      4    Sprigs of parsley
  2 1/4 lb Fully cooked tongue
           In one piece
 
  1. Heat 2 tbsp of butter in a large saucepan or small kettle and add
  the onions and garlic. Cook, stirring, until wilted. Add the ham and
  lentils and stir briefly. 2. Add the tomatoes with tomato paste,
  water, bay leaf, thyme and parsley. Add the tongue. 3. Bring to a
  boil. Cover the pan and let simmer 35 min. oe until the lentils are
  tender. 4. Remove the tongue. Stir the remaining butter into the
  lentil mixture. Discard the bay leaf. 5. Slice the tongue and serve
  with the lentils.
  
  This dish: Langue de boeuf aux lentilles
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops and Apples in Sweet And Sour Sauce
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Fruit, Salsa/sauce, Apples
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Center-cut loin pork chops
           About 1 1/2-in. thick
      2    Golden delicious apples
      1 tb Corn oil
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped fine'
      1 tb Brown sugar
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1    Ripe tomato peeled, seeded
           And cut into 1/4-in cubes
           About #/4 cups
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
 
  1. Trim most of the fat from the chops. 2. Quarter, core and peel the
  apples. 3. Heat the oil in the skillet large enough to hold the chops
  in one layer. Add the chops and cook until nicely browned on one
  side, 2-3 min. Turn and cook on the other side about 2-3 min.
  Continue cooking the chops about 15 min., turning them often. 4.
  Arrange the apple quarters around the chops. Cover closely and cook 5
  min. 5. Transfer the chops and apple quarters to a warmed platter and
  keep hot. 6. Pour off the fat from the skillet. Add the onion and
  cook, stirring, until wilted. Add the brown sugar and vinegar and
  stir. Add the tomato and chicken broth. Stir to dissolve the brown
  particles that cling to the bottom and sides of the skillet. Cook,
  stirring, about 2 min. 7. Add any liquid that has accumulated around
  the chops. Cook until the sauce has reduced to about 3/4 cups. 8.
  Pour the sauce over the chops and apples.
  
  This dish: Cotes de porc aux pommes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops and Sausages with Cabbage
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Green cabbage
      1 tb Butter
      4    Loin chops about 1/2lb each
      1 c  Onion, chopped fine
      1 ts Garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 ts Cumin
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Thyme
      2    Whole cloves
    1/2 c  Water
      1 lb Kielbasa, cut in half
           Crosswise
 
  1. Cut away and discard the core of the cabbage. Cut the cabbage
  lenghtwise into eighths. Cut each piece crosswise into 1/2-in.
  pieces. There should be about 12 cups, loosely packed. Set aside. 2.
  Heat the butter in a heavy, flameproof casserole with a tight-fitting
  lid. Put chops in casserole. Cook over moderately high heat about 2
  min. on each side or until lightly browned. 3. Scatter the onion and
  garlic around the chops and cook, stirring, until wilted. Add the
  wine and stir. Add the cabbage, cumin, bay leaf, thyme and cloves.
  Add the water. Cover closely and cook for 30 min. 4. Add the pieces
  of sausage and cook again. Continue cooking 15 min. Discard the bay
  leaf.
  
  This dish: Cotes de porc et saucisses au chou
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops Stuffed with Caraway Rye
 Categories: Pork, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Rye bread with caraway
           Seeds, cut into 1/4-in. dice
    1/4 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Onion, chopped fine
    1/2 ts Garlic, minced
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, diced
    1/2 c  Parsley, minced
      1 ts Caraway seeds
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
      4    Loin pork chops
           Each abut 1-in. thick
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
 
  1. Preheat the oven to 300. Put the bread cubes in a baking dish and
  place in the oven. Bake about 5 min. or until lightly brown. 2.
  Meanwhile, melt the butter in a saucepan and add 1 cup of the chopped
  onion, the garlic and the mushrooms. Cook, stirring, until wilted.
  Spoon the mixture into a mixing bowl and add the parsley, caraway
  seeds, bread cubes and egg. Stir well. 3. Holding a knife parallel to
  the surface of the meat, split each chop in half to the bone, top to
  bottom, but do not cut entirely through. Place the flaps of each chop
  on a flat surface and pound with a mallet. Do not break the flesh or
  the stuffing will ooze out. Stuff each chop with equal portions of
  stuffing. Flod the flaps together to enclose the stuffing and secure
  with wooden toothpicks. 4. Heat the oil in a heavy skillet large
  enough to hold the chops in one layer without crowding. Add the chops
  and cook over moderately high heat about 4 min on each side until
  well browned. Continue cooking, turning occasionally, about 15 min.
  Transfer the chops to a hot serving dish and keep warm. 5. Pour off
  the fat from the skillet and add the remaining onion. Cook, stirring,
  about 1 min. then add the vinegar and stir well. Add the broth and
  bring to a boil, stirring. 6. Remove the toothpicks from the chops.
  Srain the sauce, pushing through the sieve as much of the solids as
  possible, and serve.
  
  This dish: Cotes de porc farcies au karvi
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerkraut with Ham and Sausage
 Categories: Pork, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Sauerkraut
      2    Slices of bacon, chopped
      1 c  Onion, chopped fine
      1 ts Garlic, minced
      1    Bay leaf
      6    Juniper berries, crushed
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 lb Ham steak in a single slice
      1 lb Polish sausage
           Pricked in several places
           With a fork
 
  1. If you like sauerkraut that is relaively sour, do not rinse it but
  simply sqeeze it dry. If you like it less sour, however, rinse it
  under cold running water and drain in a colander. Press to extract
  excess moisture. 2. Heat the bacon in a casserole or dutch oven and
  cook until rendered of fat. Add the onion and garlic and cook until
  the onion is wilted. 3. Add the sauerkraut. Tie the bay leaf, juniper
  berries and caraway seeds in a small cheesecloth bag and add it. Add
  the wine and the chicken broth and bring to a boil. Arrange the ham
  steak and sausage in or over the sauerkraut. Cover closely and cook 1
  hr. 4. Discard the cheesecloth bag. Serve the sauerkraut and meats
  with boiled potatoes, rye or pumpernickle bread and mustard on the
  side.
  
  This dish: Choucroute garnie
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Cutlets with Paprika in Sour Cream
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Boneless loin or
           Tenderloin of pork
           Cut into 8 slices
      1 ts Sweet paprika
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped fine
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Sour cream
           Parsley, chopped for garnish
 
  1. Place the meat on a flat surface and pound with a mallet to flatten
  without breaking the meat. 2. Hold a small sieve over the meat and
  add the paprika. Tap the sieve, moving it over the meat so that the
  slices are evenly coated with paprika. 3. Heat the butter in a
  skillet large enough to hold the meat in one layer. Add the meat and
  cook over high heat to brown on one side, about 3 min. Turn and brown
  on the other side, about 3-4 min. 4. Transfer the slices to a warmed
  platter and keep hot. Pour off the fat from the skillet. To the
  skillet add the onion. Cook briefly, stirring, until wilted. Add the
  wine to dissolve the brown particles that cling to the bottom of the
  skillet. Add the chicken broth and simmer about 5 min. 5. Remove the
  sauce from the heat and stir in the sour cream. The sauce may be
  spooned over the meat now, but it is preferable to put it through a
  fine sieve and reheat it briefly before serving. 6. Sprinkle with
  parsley.
  
  This dish: Cotelettes de porc au paprika
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork with Coriander and Red Wine
 Categories: Pork, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Loin of pork
      4 ts Coriander seeds, crushed
      1 ts Black peppercorns, crushed
      1 ts Brown sugar
      1 tb Olive oil
      3 c  Dry red wine
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Coriander leaves, coarse
           Chopped
 
  1. Cut the pork into 1-in. cubes and place them in a mixing bowl. Add
  1 tsp of the coriander seed, the peppercorns and sugar and stir well
  to blend. Cover the bowl and let marinate for a least 20 min. If you
  can leave the meat for longer, you will need to pat it dry with a
  paper towel befor cooking. 2. Heat the oil in a heavy skillet large
  enough to hold the pork cubes in one layer. When the oil is quite
  hot, aromatic and almost smoking, add the meat. Cook, turning often
  to brown evenly, about 2-3 min. 3. Add the wine to the skillet and
  bring to a boil, stirring. After 1-2 min.,reduce the heat to low and
  cook gently, turning the meat occasionally, until the meat is tender
  and the wine reduced to about 4 tbsp. This should take about 20 min.
  4. Add the butter and the remaining coriander seeds. Increase the
  heat to medium high and stir well to mix the melted butter with the
  wine for a few sec. Add the coriander leaves, toss to coat the meat
  and serve.
  
  This dish: Porc a la grecque
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Pork Tenderloin
 Categories: Pork, Stuffing, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Tenderloin, pork
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Mushrooms, chopped
      1 sm Italian sausage
      2 tb Parsley, chopped fine
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1    Egg yolk, beaten
      2    Bacon slices
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
 
  1. Preheat the oven to 375. 2. Lay the pork tenderloin on chopping
  board and trim off almost all the fat. Score 2 vertical lines down
  the lenght of it, taking care not to pierce through the meat. Place
  the pork between to pieces of plastic wrap and pound the meat lightly
  with a flat mallet so that it forms a shape somewhere between an oval
  and a rectangle. 3. Melt 1 tbsp of butter in a saucepan and add the
  mushrooms. Cook for 2-3 min. until soft. 4. Remove the sausage meat
  from its casing and put it into a small mixing bowl. Add the
  mushrooms, parsley and thyme and blend well. Stir in the egg to bind.
  5. Spoon the sausage meat mixture down the center of the pork. Fold
  over the 2 end flaps of the pork and then the sides to form a roll.
  Place the slices of bacon on top. Tie the roll in 2 or 3 places with
  string. 6. Place the roll on a sheet of foil and dot the remaining
  butter on top. Wrap the foil around the pork roll and set on a baking
  sheet. 7. Cook for 30 min. Remove the foil, baste the pork with the
  cooking juices and cook for a further 10 min. 8. Remove and discard
  the string and bacon. Cut the meat into slices crosswise. Pour the
  cooking juices into a small saucepan, add the wine and bring to a
  boil. Serve this sauce with the pork.
  
  This dish: Paupiette de porc
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Meatball Stew
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Potatoes
    3/4 lb Carrots
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Onion, chopped fine
  1 1/2 ts Garlic, minced
  1 1/2 lb Lean pork
      1 tb Fresh ginger root,
           Chopped fine
    2/3 c  Fine soft bread crumbs
      1    Egg lightly beaten
      3 tb Peanut oil
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Canned tomatoes
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 c  Frozen peas
 
  1. Peel the potatoes and cut into 1-in. cubes There should be about 2
  cups. Put the potatoes into a bowl of cold water. Trim and scrape the
  carrots, then cut into slices about the same size as the potatoes.
  There should be about 2 cups. 2. Heat the butter in a small skillet
  and add half the onion and 1/2 tsp garlic. Cook, stirring, until
  wilted. Tip into a bowl and add the pork, ginger, 1/2 c. bread crumbs
  and the egg. Blend well. 3. Have a small bowl of cold water ready.
  Divide the pork mixture into 24 portions and, using dampened fingers
  and palms, shape each into a ball. 4. Sprinkle the balls with the
  remaining bread crumbs and roll the balls to coat with the crumbs.
  Discard excess crumbs. 5. Heat the oil in a skillet large enough to
  hold the meatballs without crowding. Add the meatballs and cook,
  turning often to brown evenly, 2-3 min. 6. Scatter the remaining
  onions and garlic around the meatballs. Add the wine and bring to a
  boil. Add the tomatoes. Drain the potatoes and add to the skillet
  with the carrots and herbs. Cook 20 min. 7. Put the peas in a sieve
  and run briefly under hot water from the faucet. Add to the stew.
  Bring to a boil again, and discard the herbs.
  
  This dish: Ragout de boulettes porc
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops with Spices
 Categories: Pork, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Pork chops, each about
           1/2-in. thick 2 lb total
           Wieght
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Onion, chopped fine
      2 ts Garlic, minced
      1 c  Water
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/8 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1    Bay leaf
 
  1. Heat the oil in a heavy skillet large enough to hold the chops in
  one layer. Add the chops and cook until nicely browned on one side,
  about 5-6 min. Turn the chops and cook on the other side about 5 min.
  Pour off all the fat from the skillet. 2. Return the skillet to the
  heat and scatter the onions and garlic around the chops. Cook
  briefly, stirring. Add the water and sprinkle the chops with cumin,
  paprika, turmeric and bay leaf. Cover closely and cook about 30 min.
  over low heat. 3. Serve the chops with the sauce poured over.
  
  This dish: Cotes de porc marocaine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham Rolls with Grapes and Tomato Cream Sauce
 Categories: Pork, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Shallots, chopped fine
      1 c  Cubed ripe tomatoes
      6 tb Dry white wine
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 lb Thinly sliced ham
  1 1/2 c  Small white seedless grapes
 
  1. Preheat the oven to 400. 2. Melt 1 tbsp of butter in a saucepan
  and add the shallots. Cook briefly, then add the tomatoes. Cook about
  10 min., stirring occasionally. Add 4 tbsp of the wine and cook about
  3 min. Stir in the cream. Simmer about 15 min. 3. Butter a oval
  baking dish( a dish measuring about 9 x 12 x 2 in. is ideal). Roll up
  the ham slices into cigarette shapes not quite 1-in. in diameter.
  Arrange the rolls close together in the dish, side by side in a neat
  row. Melt the remaining butter and brush over the ham rolls. Set
  aside. 4. Put the sauce through a fine strainer. Return to the
  saucepan and cook about 5 min. longer. 5. Meanwhile, place the grapes
  in a small skillet with the remaining wine. Bring to a boil and cook,
  shaking the skillet, about 3 min. Do not over cook or the grapes will
  become mushy. They must retain a nice texture and shape. Add the
  sauce and bring to a boil, stirring. 6. Place the ham in the oven and
  bake about 5 min., just to heat through. 7. Pour the grapes and the
  sauce over the ham.
  
  This dish: Roulades de jambon veronique
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Patties with Spices
 Categories: Pork, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Ground pork
    1/4 c  Grated parm cheese
    1/3 ts Rubbed sage
    1/8 ts Allspice
           Pinch of cayenne
    1/4 c  Dry red wine
    1/4 lb Caul fat(optional)
      2 tb Peanut oil
           Chopped parsley for garnish
 
  1. Put the pork in a mixing bowl and add the cheese, sage, allspice
  and cayenne. Add the wine and blend well with hands. 2. Divide the
  mixture into 8 portions of equal size. Shape into balls and then
  flatten into patties. If the caul fat is used, cut the sheets into 8
  6-in. squares and wrap each patty neatly in a square of fat. 3. Heat
  the oil in a skillet and add the patties. Cook over relatively high
  heat until browned on one side, about 2 min. Turn and cook until
  nicely browned on the other side. Reduce the heat and continue
  cooking about 12-15 min. 4. Sprinkle with chopped parsley.
  
  This dish: Crepinettes de porc
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Spareribs with Barbecue Sauce
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Rack of spareribs the
           Smaller and meatier the
           Are the better
           Salt and pepper
      1 c  Ketchup
      1 ts Grated fresh ginger
      4 ts Butter
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Garlic, minced
      2 tb Honey
      1 ts Coriander, ground
 
  1. Preheat the oven to 425. 2. Bring a large kettle of water to a
  boil and add the rack of spareribs. Parboil about 2 min., then drain.
  Pat dry with paper towels. 3. Place the spareribs on the rack in a
  roasting pan, meaty side up. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place in
  the oven and bake 30 min. or until nicely browned. 4. Meanwhile,
  combine the remaining ingredients in a saucepan and bring to a boil,
  stirring occasionally. 5. Brush the spareribs with the sauce and bake
  15 min. longer. 6. Turn the spareribs and brush with the sauce. Bake
  10-15 min. longer. 7. Cut into 1- or 2-rib pieces. Serve with the
  remaining sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops with Mango
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Fruit, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Loin chops, about 4
      2 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Onion, chopped fine
      1    Clove of garlic, minced
      1 tb Curry powder, more or less
           To taste
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Chicken broth
      1    Large ripe mango
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  1. Heat the butter in a skillet large enough to hold the chops
  comfortably in one layer. Add the chops and cook over high heat about
  2-3 min. or until well browned. Turn the chops and cook the other
  side about 2-3 min. Remove the chops and set aside. 2. Add the onion
  and garlic to the skillet and cook over moderate heat, stirring,
  until wilted. Add the curry powder and flour and stir to blend. Cook,
  stirring, about 2 min., then gradually stir in the broth. 3. Return
  the chops to the skillet. Cover and cook gently about 25 min. 4.
  Meanwhile, cut the mango in half along one side of its flat seed. Cut
  out the seed as neatly as possible. Peel the mango halves and slice
  thinly lenghtwise. 5. Add the mango slices to the skillet and cook
  3-4 min. longer or until the mango is heated through. 6. Transfer the
  chops and the mango slices to a warmed serving platter and keep hot.
  7. Increase the heat under the skillet and cook down the liquid until
  reduced by about half. Add the cream and cinnamon and stir to blend.
  Bring back to a boil. 8. Pour the sauce over the chops.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Olive-Stuffed Meatballs
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Vegetable, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Onion, chopped
      2 sm Cloves garlic, minced
  1 1/4 lb Ground meat, preferably
           Mixed pork and veal
    1/2 c  Soft bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Parsley, chopped fine
      1 lg Egg
      1 c  Heavy cream
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
     16 sm Stuffed green olives
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 tb Dijon mustard
 
  1. Heat the butter in a small skillet and add half the onion and
  garlic. Cook until wilted. Let cool briefly. 2. Put the meat in a
  mixing bowl and add the cooked onion and garlic, the bread crumbs,
  parsley, egg, half the cream and nutmeg. Mix well. Divide into 16
  equal portions. 3. Flatten each portion into a small patty and place
  an olive in the center. Bring the edges of the meat together and seal
  in the olive. Press into a ball. 4. Heat the oil in a skillet large
  enough to hold the meatballs in one layer. Do not crowd them. Cook,
  turning often so that they brown evenly, about 5-10 min. Remove and
  keep warm. 5. Pour most of the fat from the skillet. To the skillet
  add the remaining onion and garlic and cook until wilted. Stir in the
  flour, then add the wine. Cook about 1 min., stirring. 6. Add the
  broth and tomato paste and stir with a wire whisk to remove any
  lumps. When the sauce is thickened and boiling, add the meatballs.
  Cover and cook 10 min., shaking the skillet occasionally. 7. Blend
  the remaining cream and the mustard into the sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham in Cream Sauce
 Categories: Pork, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Cooked ham in one piece
      2 tb Butter + 1tsp
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      1 tb Shallots, minced
      3 tb Dry sherry
      3    Slices hot buttered toast
 
  1. Cut the ham into 1/2-in. or slightly smaller cubes. There should be
  slightly more then 2 1/2 cups. Set aside. 2. Heat 2 tbsp of butter in
  a saucepan and add the flour, stirring with a wire whisk. When
  blended, add the milk, stirring rapidly with the whisk. Add the
  nutmeg. Bring to a boil and let cook, stirring occasionally, about 5
  min. 3. Meanwhile, heat the remaining butter in a skillet and add the
  ham. Cook briefly, stirring. Add the shallots and cook briefly,
  stirring. Stir in the sherry and heat through. 4. Add the cream sauce
  to the skillet and turn off the heat. Stir well to blend. 5. Spoon
  the ham in cream sauce over the toast.
  
  This dish: Jambon a la creme
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Chili Con Carne
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Tex/mexican, Rice, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Boneless pork loin
      3 tb Safflower oil
  2 1/2 c  Cored, seeded green peppers
           Cut into 1-in. cubes
      1 tb Garlic, minced
      3 c  Drained, canned mexican
           Green tomatoes, or use
           Peeled, seeded and chopped
           Ripe tomatoes
      6 oz Can chopped green chilies
      2 tb Cumin
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      2 tb Fresh chopped coriander
      1 c  Dry white wine
 
  1. Cut the meat into 1 1/2-in. cubes 2. Heat the oil in a pressure
  cooker. When it is quite hot, add about 1/3 of the meat cubes. Cook,
  stirring, until nicely browned. 3. Using a slotted spoon, transfer
  the cubes to a platter. Add another third of the meat cubes and brown
  them. Transfer them to the platter. Brown the remaining meat cubes
  and transfer them to the platter. 4. Add the green peppers to the fat
  remaining in the cooker and cook until wilted. Add the garlic and
  cook about 5 sec., stirring. 5. Return the meat cubes to the cooker.
  Add the remaining ingredients and mix well. Cover with the lid and
  add the pressure regulator. Cook 20 min. 6. Remove the lid according
  to the manufacturer's instructions. Cook down, uncovered, about 10
  min. or until the sauce is reduced slightly. Serve with cumin rice.
  
  This dish: Chili verde
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breaded Pork Chops
 Categories: Pork, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Loin pork chops, about
           1/2-in. thick you should
           Be able to get 8
      1 c  Flour
      1 lg Egg
      2 tb Water
      2 c  Soft bread crumbs
    1/3 c  Corn oil
      1 tb Butter
 
  1. Place the chops between to sheets of plastic wrap and pound
  lightly with flat mallet. 2. Dredge the chops lightly in flour,
  shaking off any excess. 3. Lightly beat the egg with the water. Dip
  the chops into the egg, smearing it over with your fingers so that it
  adheres. 4. Dip the chops into the bread crumbs so that they are
  coated all over. Pat dry with the flat side of a heavy knife to help
  the crumbs adhere. 5. Heat the oil and butter in a large, heavy
  skillet and add the chops. Cook until golden brown on one side, about
  3-4 min. It may be necessary to cook the chops in two batches if they
  will not all fit in the skillet at one time.
  
  This dish: Cotes de porc panees
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Endives Baked in Cheese Sauce
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Vegetable, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Unblemished heads belgian
           Endive, about 1 1/2 lb
           Total weight
      5 tb Butter + 1 tsp
    1/2    Juice of lemon
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Flour
  2 1/2 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
           Cayenne or tabasco to taste
    1/4 lb Gruyere cheese, grated
      2    Egg yolks
    1/2 lb Should be able to get 8 thin
           Slices
 
  1. Rinse the endives and drain. Heat 2 tbsp of butter in a heavy
  skillet in which the endives will fit in one layer. Arrange the
  endives in the pan. Sprinkle with the lemon juice and water. Cover
  closely and cook 30 min. or until tender. Watch carefully that the
  cooking liquid does not boil away and the endives burn. If necessary,
  add a little more water to prevent sticking. 2. Meanwhile, melt 3
  tbsp of butter in a saucepan and add the flour, stirring with a wire
  whisk. When blended, add the milk, stirring rapidly with the whisk.
  Add the nutmeg and cayenne to taste. Cook, stirring often, about 5
  min. 3. Add about 1 cup of the cheese and stir until melted. Add the
  egg yolks, stirring rapidly. Bring just to a boil, stirring, but do
  not boil or the sauce will curdle. 4. Preheat the oven to 425. 5.
  Place the ham slices on a flat surface. Place an endive on each
  slice, crosswise in the center. Roll the ham slices to enclose the
  endive. 6. Use the remaining butter to grease a baking dish. Arrange
  the ham rolls in the dish, in one layer. Spoon the sauce over all.
  Sprinkle with the remaining cheese. 7. place the dish in the oven and
  bake 10 min. If the top is not uniformly brown, run the dish briefly
  under the broiler.
  
  This dish: Jambon et endives au gratin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage-Stuffed Zucchini
 Categories: Pork, Meat, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 md Zucchini
      6 sm Linked sausage
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
    3/4 ts Anise seeds
    3/4 c  Water
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Fresh coriander, chopped
           Fine
      3    Cloves garlic
    1/4 c  Tomatoes, peeled, seeded
           And diced
           Salt
 
  1. Trim off the ends of each zucchini. Cut the center portions of each
  zucchini into 2-in. lenghts. Cut the remaining ends into 1/2-in.
  rounds. 2. Using a knife or a melon baller, hollow out the centers of
  each lenght of zucchini. The hollowed-out portions should be just
  large enough to hold 1 small link of sausage; reserve the
  hollowed-out pulp. 3. Roll the link sausages in the cayenne. 4. Heat
  the oil in a skillet and add the sausages. Cook, turning often, until
  browned and cooked through. Sprinkle with anise seed, coating the
  sausages evenly. 5. Stuff 1 sausage inside each piece of zucchini.
  Put the stuffed pieces back into the skillet. Add the small zucchini
  rounds and hollowed-out pulp. 6. Combine the water, turmeric, cumin,
  paprika, coriander, garlic, tomato and salt to taste and pour over
  the zucchini. Cook, turning the zucchini pieces, about 5 min. Cover
  closely and continue cooking 30 min. Turn the pieces often in the
  cooking liquid so that they cook evenly. If, as the zucchini cook,
  the water becomes too little, add up to 1/2 cup more. When ready, the
  zucchini should be very tender and the sauce cooked downed to about
  1/3 cup. 7. Remove and discard the garlic cloves. Serve hot or cold.
  
  This dish: Courgettes farcies marocaine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Armenian Eggplant Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Londontowne
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Eggplant, lg
      4    Tomatoes
      1    Green pepper, diced
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2    Clove garlic, finely minced
           Pepper, freshly ground
      1    Onion, med, sliced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Sour cream (optional sauce)
 
  Pare and dice eggplant. Heat oil in skillet, add onion, green pepper,
  and eggplant. Stir over low heat until eggplant is soft. Add
  tomatoes(may substitute canned Italian solid pear shape, drained),
  salt, and pepper. Simmer a few minutes. At this point you can add
  basil, chives, parsley, tarragon or oregano to taste. Turn into
  casserole dish and bake at 325 degrees for 40 minutes. Casserole may
  be served hot or cold, with sour cream. Mrs. Henry D. Chaplin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Pepper Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish, Meat, Londontowne
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Green peppers, med
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
  1 1/2 c  Rice
      2 tb Onions
      1 c  Corn, whole kernel
    1/2 ts Salt
      8 oz Tomato sauce
 
  Cut tops off peppers and clean inside. Cook peppers in water to cover
  for 20 minutes. Brown ground beef and onions. Add seasonings, rice,
  corn, and tomato sauce. Heat until bubbly. Spoon filling into
  peppers; place in casserole dish. Place extra filling, if any, around
  peppers. Bake at 350 degrees for 20-25 minutes. Mrs. Robert F. Lewis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grits Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Londontowne
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Milk
      1 c  Hominy grits
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1    Roll garlic cheese
      2    Eggs, well beaten
    1/2 c  Cheese, grated
 
  Bring 3-1/2 c milk to boiling in medium saucepan. Gradually stir in
  grits. Gook over medium heat , stirring constantly, until thick
  (about 10 minutes). Remove from heat. Add butter and garlic cheese;
  stir until melted. Stir in eggs and remaining milk. Pour into 2 quart
  casserole. Bake in preheated 375 degree oven uncovered for 30
  minutes. Sprinkle grated cheese over top. Bake 15 minutes longer.
  Mrs. Harold T. Cook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Scallop Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 lb Haddock
      2 lb Scallops
      2 lb Lobster meat; cooked
      1 c  Butter or margarine;
           - about 6 cups
           - (1/2 pound)
 
  ~--
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: COLOSSUS Date: 12-04-92 (00:01) Number: 2244 From: ROBERT
  ROSTRUP Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: RECIPES *CR* Conf: (125)
  COOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: John Wayne's Cheese Casserole
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 cn Diced green chiles
      1 lb Jack cheese; coarsely grated
      1 tb Flour
      1 cn Evaporated milk; small
      1 lb Cheddar cheese;coarsely grtd
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes
           Salt/pepper to taste
      4    Eggs
      6 sl To 8 sl fresh tomatoes; OR
 
  Separate egg yolks from egg whites.  Beat evaporated milk and flour
  in with egg yolk.  Season with salt and pepper.  Add stiffly beaten
  egg whites, folding them in gently.  In a deep, well-buttered,
  casserole dish, mix the shredded cheese with the diced green chiles.
  Pour the egg mixture over the cheese and "ooze" it through with a
  fork.  Place casserole in a preheated 325F degree oven and bake for
  30 minutes.  Remove casserole and bake an additional 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brown Rice Casserole
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked brown rice
           Half block of tofu
      1 lg Onion
      2 md Carrots
      2    Celery stalks
      1    Green pepper
      2 md Zucchini
           -=OR=- other summer squash
      6 oz Mushrooms, wiped clean
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Butter
      3    Garlic cloves;
           - finely chopped
      1 ts Nutritional yeast (optional)
      1 ts Ground cumin seeds
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Mushroom broth; -=OR=-
           - Vegetable stock, or water
      6 oz Grated cheese
           -(Jack, muenster, Cheddar
           - or Gouda)
           Pepper
           Fresh herbs, for garnish
           -(Parsley or Cilantro,
           -Thyme, Marjoram)
 
  This was one of the most popular dishes at Greens Restaurant in San
  Francisco.
  
  COOK RICE. SET THE TOFU on a slanted board or pan to drain, and
  prepare the vegetables. Chop the onion, carrots, celery, pepper, and
  zucchini into pieces about 1/2-inch square. Quarter mushrooms if they
  are small, and cut them into sixths or eighths if they are large. Cut
  the tofu into 1/2-inch cubes. Heat the olive oil and the butter and
  fry the onion over medium heat until it is lightly browned, about 5
  minutes. Add the garlic, nutritional yeast, if using, cumin and salt.
  Stir until blended and cook for 1 minute. Add the carrots, celery,
  green pepper and 1/2 cup of the liquid, cover pan, and braise the
  vegetables until they begin to soften, about 5 minutes. Add the
  zucchini and mushrooms and cook 7 to 10 minutes. The vegetables
  should be nearly, but not completely, cooked. If the pan gets dry
  while they cook, add a little more liquid. Preheat oven to 350F.
  Combine the vegetables with rice and cheese. Season with salt and
  plenty of freshly ground black pepper. Gently mix in the tofu, and
  put mixture into lightly oiled casserole. Add a little more liquid to
  moisten. Cover with foil and bake 1/2 hour. Remove foil and bake 15
  minutes. Garnish with fresh herbs.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Christmas Casserole
 Categories: Holiday, Fish, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Salmon; 6 1/2 oz or 233 g
      2 c  Soda crackers-coarsely crush
      1 cn Corn; creamed, 14 oz
      1 c  Cheddar cheese; grated
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Green pepper, cubed
      1    Egg
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Butter
      2 tb Almonds; thin sliced
 
    Preheat oven to 450F. Drain salmon in large bowl. Remove skin and
  bones. Flake. Crush soda crackers with rolling pin coarsely. Add to
  salmon, reserving 2 Tbsp. Add corn, cheese, milk, green pepper and
  pepper. Mix. Beat egg lightly with fork in small bowl and add to
  salmon-corn mixture. Mix well. Put in greased 6 cup casserole dish
  with lid. Smooth top. Top with reserved crushed soda crackers and dot
  with butter. Sprinkle top with thin sliced almonds.
   Bake covered 30 minutes at 35O. Uncover for last 5 minutes.
  
  Good if you don't want to bother making stuffing.
  
  This is based on my grandmother's recipe and was originally made with
  oysters (they came in on trains to Iowa at Christmas time at the turn
  of the century and were only available then. Unfortunately, they
  fairly expensive here in Toronto :)
  
  Serves:4 Source: Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carolina Casserole
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground Beef
      1 cn Niblets Corn
      1 c  Onions, chopped
      1 cn Tomato Puree
      1 cn Tomato Sauce
      1 cn Red Beans
      1 tb Chilli Powder
 
  Brown beef and onions together in a large skillet. Add remaining
  ingredients, stir well. Cover and simmer 35-45 minutes. Season to
  taste.
  
  Source: "The Yankee Kitchen" 03-18-93 (#5) [Bev]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy Beef Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Cheese/eggs, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Lean Ground Beef
      1 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Onion; Minced
    1/4 ts Garlic
     16 oz Tomato Sauce; 2 Cn
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 c  Cottage Cheese; Creamed
  1 1/4 c  Carrots; Sliced, Cooked
      8 oz Md. Noodles; Cooked & Drain
      1 c  Cheddar; Md, Shredded
 
  Brown the ground beef in the butter and add the onions and garlic.
  Stir in the tomato sauce, salt and pepper.  Combine the sour cream,
  cheese and carrots.  Add the combination to the noodles and mix.
  Alternate layers of the meat mixture and the noodle mixture in a
  3-quart casserole, beginning and ending with the noodle mixture.  Top
  with the cheddar cheese.  Bake at 350 degrees F. for at least 45
  minutes and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice and Cheese Casserole
 Categories: Rice, Cheese/eggs, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
  2 1/2 cup cooked brown rice      3 green onions, chopped 1 cup low-fat
  cottage cheese     1 tsp dill weed 1/4 cup freshly grated Parmesan
  1/2 cup low-fat milk 1/2 tsp Dijon-style mustard Nonstick vegetable
  spray Directions: Combine all but the last ingredient in a mixing
  bowl. Pour into a casserole dish coated with nonstick vegetable
  spray. Bake in a preheated 350 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Reuben Casserole
 Categories: Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Swiss cheese; shredded
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 cn Sauerkraut; rinsed & draine
      2 tb Butter
      1 cn Corned beef; chopped, 12 oz
    1/4 c  Thousand island dressing or:
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise & dash ketchup,
           -relish
      2    Tomatoes; sliced (optional)
      1    Green pepper; cut in rings
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :12 Put
  sauerkraut in buttered 1 1/2 casserole dish. Top with corned beef,
  broken into bits, then cheese. Combine mayonnaise and Thousand Island
  dressing (or substitute made with mayo, ketchup and relish) to equal
  3/4 cup ) and spread over cheese. Top with tomatoes or green pepper.
  Melt butter in microwave and blend with bread crumbs, spread over
  top.  Cook 12 minutes on HIGH (100%).
  
  quick and easy, uses cupboard ingredients a recipe from mom (Florida)
  N.B. serving are very generous, could serve 6 posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Country Pork Chop Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      4    Pork chops (3/4")
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      1    Apple, diced
      1 cn VEG-ALL Mixed Vegetables
           -(16 oz)
      1 cn Chicken broth (12 oz)
      1 tb Sugar
  1 1/3 c  Quick cooking rice
 
  1. Brown pork chops in oil in heavy skillet.
  
  2. Stir in onions and apple. Cover and cook 10 minutes.
  
  3. Drain VEG-ALL, reserving liquid.
  
  4. Stir in liquid, chicken broth and sugar; bring to boil. Reduce
  heat and simmer until pork chops are cooked, approximately 25
  minutes. Remove chops.
  
  5. Bring liquid to boil; stir in vegetables and rice. Remove from
  heat and let stand 5 minutes.
  
  6. Serve pork chops on rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Roll Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Hamburger
      1 tb Oil
      1    Onion; sliced thin
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Rice; uncooked, converted,
      1 cn Tomato soup; 10 oz
      1 cn -Water
      3 c  Cabbage; shredded
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 1:00
     Preheat oven to 325F. In large frypan, brown meat in oil for few
  minutes. add onion, salt and pepper. Drain. Add rice, mix well. Add
  soup and water. Put cabbage in baking dish, pour rest over it and do
  NOT stir. Bake in 325F oven for 1 hour, uncovered.
  
  Tastes like cabbage rolls but without the bother posted by Anne
  MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chile Relleno Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Main dish, Tex/mexican, Chili, Chilies
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------CHILE RELLENOS----------------------------
     20 oz Whole green chiles
      1    Lg onion
      1 tb Cumin
      1    Salt to taste
      8 oz Sharp cheddar, grated
     13 oz Can evap. milk
     13 oz Can tomato sauce
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      3 tb Chile powder
      8 oz Monterey jack, grated
      4    Eggs, beaten
      1 tb All purpose flour

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPINGS-------------------------------
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Chopped pecans (optional)
      1 c  Raisins (optional)
 
  Rinse chiles, open flat and remove seeds. Drain on paper towels.
  Brown meat with onion and garlic. Drain. Add 1 tsp cumin, 1.5 tbs
  chili powder and salt. Stir. In a greased 9x13" pan, layer chiles,
  beef and additional chiles. Combine cheeses and sprinkle over chiles.
  Beat together eggs, milk and flour. Pour over cheese mixture. To the
  tomato sauce add 2 tsp cumin and 1.5 tbs chili powder. Pour over all.
  Bake 30-45 min at 350 F. (Note: If preparing ahead of time, do not
  cover with tomato sauce until time to bake.)  Serve toppings in
  seperate bowls and let guests help themselves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Huevos Ranchero Casserole Souffle
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Unsalted butter; softened
      6    Bell peppers, about 6" long
     12    Eggs; separated
      4 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
      2 c  Fresh or frozen corn kernels
      1 c  Milk
      2    Fresh jalapeno peppers
           - seeds & membranes removed
           - and minced,   -=OR=-
           - Use pickled jalapenos tha
           - have been rinsed
           - and prepared the same way
      1 ts Salt; or to taste
           Freshly ground black pepper
      6 c  Purchased or homemade salsa
           - warmed
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 450F. Butter a 9-by-13-inch oven-proof glass or
  earthenware casserole dish. Make an incision along the length of each
  bell pepper and remove the stem, seeds and membranes, keeping the
  peppers whole. Fill a medium-size saucepan or skillet halfway with
  water and bring it to a boil. Add the peppers, let the water return
  to a boil and cook until the peppers are just softened, about 3
  minutes. Remove and blot them very dry with paper towels. Let them
  cool completely and then line the bottom of the casserole with them.
  Separate the eggs into 2 large bowls. Beat the yolks until smooth,
  then stir in the cheese, corn, milk, jalapeno peppers and salt and
  black pepper. Whisk the whites until soft peaks form, then fold them
  into the yolk mixture, gently stirring just until almost blended.
  Scrape the mixture into the prepared dish and transfer it to the
  middle rack of the preheated oven. Bake just until the eggs are puffy
  and the top is lightly browned, about 7 minutes. Reduce the heat to
  325F and continue cooking until the eggs are baked through but not
  dry, 22 to 25 minutes. Test by inserting a knife into the center. It
  should come out almost clean. Remove the pan and let it sit for a few
  minutes before cutting the casserole into 12 rectangles. Serve each
  portion with some salsa spooned on top.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Game
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Pheasant, cooked and boned
      2    Onions, chopped
      4 c  Pheasant or chicken broth
    1/4 c  Soy Sauce
           Pepper
      1 tb Parsley flakes (opt.)
      2 c  Celery, chopped
      2 c  Raw brown rice
      1 cn Soup, Cream of Mushroom
      1 cn Mushrooms (opt.)
 
  Blend all and bake in casserole at 300-350 degrees for 2 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guvec or Turlu - Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Long eggplants; -OR-
      1 md -Oval eggplant
           Salt
      4 sm Zucchini
      3 sm Sweet green peppers
    250 g  Okra; optional
    250 g  Green beans
      4 sm Tomatoes, ripe, peeled
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      3 sm Onions; sliced
      2    Garlic cloves; crushed
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  -Water
 
  There is some confusion about the name of this dish.  To the Turks,
  Turlu is a lamb or chicken and vegetable casserole.  Yet in other
  countries of the region Turlu is prepared as an all-vegetable
  casserole, with cooks admitting to it being a Turkish dish.  Guvec on
  the other hand is a casserole of meat or poultry and vegetables, or
  vegetables on their own.
  
  Oven temperature: 180 C (350 F) Cooking time: 1-1/2 to 2 hours
  
  Remove stem from eggplant, wash well then peel off 1 cm (1/2 inch)
  strips of skin lengthwise at intervals giving a striped effect.  Cut
  long eggplants in 1 cm (1/2 inch) slices; oval eggplant should be
  quartered lengthwise, then cut into chunky pieces.  Spread eggplant
  on a tray and sprinkle liberally with salt.  Leave for 30 minutes,
  then pat dry with paper towels.
  
  Trim zucchini and cut into 4 cm (1-1/2 inch) pieces.  Remove stem and
  seeds from peppers and quarter.  Wash, trim and (if desired) de-fuzz
  okra. Soak in vinegar to remove slime.  Drain.
  
  String beans if necessary and slit in half (French cut).  Slice
  tomatoes.
  
  Heat half the oil in a frying pan and fry eggplant until lightly
  browned. Remove to a plate - do not drain.
  
  Add remaining oil to a pan, add sliced onions and fry gently until
  transparent.  Stir in garlic, cook 1 minute, then remove pan from
  heat.
  
  Place a layer of eggplant in the base of a casserole dish.  Top with
  some of the zucchini, peppers and beans.  Spread some onion mixture
  on top and cover with tomato slices.  Sprinkle with salt, pepper and
  some of the parsley.  Repeat until all ingredients are used,
  reserving some tomato slices and parsley.
  
  Place prepared okra on top if used and cover with last of tomato.
  Sprinkle with parsley, salt and pepper and add water and oil drained
  from eggplant.
  
  Cover casserole and cook in a moderate oven for 1 to 1-1/2 hours until
  vegetables are tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Green Bean Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 cn Green beans(16oz)
      1 cn Bean sprouts,drained(16oz)
      1 cn Cream/celery soup(10.75oz)
      1 cn Onion rings,Frnch-fried(3oz)
 
  1. Mix together green beans, bean sprouts and soup in a greased
  2-quart casserole.~ 2. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 30 minutes.~ 3.
  Sprinkle with onion rings; bake 5 minutes longer, or until onion
  rings are golden brown.~
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodle-Cheese-Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Noodles,egg,medium(4cups)
      1 tb Salt
      3 qt Water,boiling
      1 cn Yogurt,plain(8oz)
      1 cn Cottage cheese,creamed(8oz)
      1 pk Green beans,frozen(10oz)
    1/2 c  Onion,minced
      1 c  Cheddar cheese,shredded
 
  1. Gradually add noodles and salt to rapidly boiling water so that
  water continues to boil.~ 2. Cook, uncovered, stirring occasionally,
  until tender; drain in colander.~ 3. While noodles are cooking,
  combine yogurt and cottage cheese.~ 4. In a 2-quart round baking
  dish, combine noodles, yogurt mixture, beans and onion.~ 5. Top with
  Cheddar cheese.~ 6. Bake in preheated 400'F. oven 20 to 25 minutes,
  or until cheese is melted and browned.~
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bulgur, Lentil & Tofu Casserole
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Lentils
      3 c  Stock
      1 ts Rosemary
      1 ts Tarragon
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Sesame oil
      1    Carrot, thinly sliced
      4    Garlic cloves, pressed
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      8 oz Tofu, pressed
    3/4 c  Corn
    3/4 c  Bulgur
 
  In a large pot, cook the lentils in the stock along with the spices
  for about 25 minutes.  Remove the bay leaf.
  
  While the lentils are cooking, heat the oil in a skillet.  Add the
  carrot, garlic, onion & tofu.  Saute for 5 minutes.  Add the corn &
  bulgur.  Stir to mix well.  Remove from the heat & add the lentils &
  cooking liquid. Pour into a greased casserole.  Bake qt 350F for 20
  minutes.
  
  Gary Null, "The New Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato-Zucchini Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 tb Parsley flakes
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Onion powder
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper,ground
      3 c  Zucchini,thinly sliced,fresh
      1 lb Tomatoes,fresh,sliced
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs,white,fresh
      1 tb Vegetable oil
 
  1. Combine chili powder, 1 1/2 teaspooons parsley flakes, garlic and
  onion powders, salt and pepper in a small bowl.~ 2. Place half the
  zucchini in a lightly greased 6-cup casserole, or layer with half the
  tomatoes.~ 3. Sprinkle with half the seasoning mixture.~ 4. Repeat
  the layers.~ 5. Combine bread crumbs, oil and remaining parsley
  flakes; sprinkle over vegetables.~ 6. Bake, uncovered, in preheated
  375'F. oven, until vegetables are tender, about 40 minutes.~
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant-Cheese Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Spaghetti sauce mix(1.5oz)
      1 cn Tomato sauce(8oz)
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Salt,seasoned
    1/2 c  Onion,minced
      1    Eggplant,large
    1/2 c  Salad oil
    1/2 lb Mozzarella cheese,thin slice
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese,grated
 
  1. Combine spaghetti sauce mix, tomato sauce, water, seasoned salt and
  onion in a saucepan; bring to a boil.~ 2. Reduce heat and simmer,
  uncovered, 20 minutes.~ 3. Peel eggplant; cut in 1/4-inch slices.~ 4.
  Saute eggplant slices in hot oil in a skillet until brown, adding oil
  as needed; drain well on paper towels.~ 5. Pour a third of the sauce
  into a 8-inch-square baking dish; cover the sauce with half the
  eggplant and mozzarella slices.~ 6. Repeat layers, ending with sauce;
  top with Parmesan cheese.~ 7. Bake, uncovered, in preheated 350'F.
  oven about 20 minutes.~
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Bean & Onion Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
      1 tb Mustard,prepared yellow
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
      1 cn Green beans,undrained(16oz)
           Milk
      1 cn Onions,small whole(16oz)
      1 c  Bread cubes,buttered
 
  1. Melt butter; add flour, stirring until smooth.~ 2. Add mustard,
  salt, Tabasco and bean liquid plus milk to make 1 1/2 cups; cook
  until thick.~ 3. Add beans and drained onions.~ 4. Place in a greased
  1-quart casserole; border with buttered bread crumbs.~ 5. Bake in
  preheated 375'F. oven 30 minutes, or until bread crumbs brown.~
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroni Supper Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Elbow macaroni(8oz)
           Salt
      3 qt Water,boiling
      2 tb Corn oil
      3 c  Onion,pearl whole
      1    Garlic clove,large,crushed
      1 cn Tomatoes,undrained(16oz)
      2 ts Sugar
      1 cn Tomato paste(6oz)
      2    Eggs
      1 cn Cottage cheese(16oz)
      2 pk Spinach,chopped(10oz)
      3 c  Cheddar cheese,grated(3/4#)
      1 ts Sage,ground
 
  1. Gradualyy add macaroni and 1 tablespoon salt to rapidly boiling
  water so water continues to boil.~ 2. Cook, uncovered, stirring
  occasionally, until tender; drain in colander.~ 3. Heat oil in large
  saucepan.~ 4. Add onions and garlic; saute over medium heat, stirring
  constantly, until onions are almost tender, about 3 minutes.~ 5. Stir
  in undrained tomatoes; break up tomatoes with spoon.~ 6. Stir in
  sugar, tomato paste and 1/2 teaspoon salt.~ 7. Beat eggs in a bowl
  until light; stir in cottage cheese, spinach, 1/2 cup Cheddar cheese,
  sage and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Mix well.~ 8. In an ungreased 13x9-inch
  baking dish, arrange in layers; a third of the tomato sauce, half the
  macaroni, a third of the Cheddar cheese and half the spinach
  mixture.~ 9. Repeat layering; spread the remaining sauce on the
  spinach layer and spinkle the remaining cheese around the edges of
  the casserole.~ 10. Cover with foil and bake in preheated 400'F. oven
  25 minutes.~ 11. Uncover and bake 5 minutes longer, or until mixture
  is hot and bubbly and cheese is melted.~
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Much Lighter Chicken Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Corn-oil margarine
      6 tb Unbleached flour
  1 1/4 c  Defatted chicken stock
      1 c  Non-fat milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      4 c  Cooked diced chicken
           - without skin
    1/4 c  Calorie-reduced mayonnaise
      2 c  Diced celery
      2 tb Chopped onion
      2 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
      2 c  Cooked cooled rice
    1/4 c  Sliced almonds
           - toasted in preheated
           - 350-degree oven
           - 8 to 10 minutes
 
     Melt margarine in medium saucepan.  Add flour and stir over medium
  heat 1 minute.  Do not brown.  Add chicken stock and milk.  Using a
  wire whisk, stir over medium heat until mixture comes to a boil.  Add
  salt, garlic powder and pepper; continue to cook 1 minute more.
     In large mixing bowl, combine sauce with chicken, mayonnaise,
  celery, onion, lemon juice and rice.  Mix well and pour into a
  casserole sprayed with non-stick vegetable coating.  Top with toasted
  almonds.  Bake in preheated 350-degree oven 50 to 60 minutes until
  hot and bubbly.  Makes about 7 cups OR 6 (1-cup) servings.
  
  NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION:  Each serving contains approximately 399
  calories; 83 milligrams cholesterol; 17 grams fat; 449 milligrams
  sodium.
  
  Printed in the June 20, 1991, issue of the Los Angeles Daily News.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Fish Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Halibut,frozen(14.54oz)
      1 pk Noodles,wide egg(8oz)
      1 pk Vegetables,mixed,frozen(10oz
    1/2 c  Half-and-half
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 cn Cream/mushroom soup(10.75oz)
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Onion powder
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
 
  1. Bake halibut (breaded or batter-dipped) according to package
  directions; set aside.
  
  2. Cook noodles and vegetables according to directions on each
  package.
  
  3. Meanwhile, combine remaining ingredients in a shallow 2-quart
  casserole.
  
  4. Drain noodles and vegetables; add to casserole, stirring to
  combine.
  
  5. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 20 minutes.
  
  6. Remove dish from oven and place fish on top; bake, uncovered, 10
  minutes longer, or until heated through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quickie Salmon-Potato Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Red salmon(16oz)
      1 cn Potato soup,condensed(10.5oz
    1/2 c  Milk,evaporated
    1/4 ts Celery salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper
  1 1/2    Shredded wheat biscuits
      1 tb Butter
 
  1. Drain salmon; remove dark skin and bones.
  
  2. Break salmon into 1-inch pieces.
  
  3. Heat potato soup with milk, celery, salt and pepper; add salmon.
  
  4. Pour mixture into a well-greased casserole.
  
  5. Cover with shredded wheat; dot with butter.
  
  6. Place under broiler a few minutes to brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato-Cabbage Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes,Idaho,unpeeled(3lg)
           Water,boiling
    1/2 lb Bacon,cut into 3" strips
      1 c  Onion,sliced
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Thyme,dried
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Beer(12oz)
    1/2 c  Milk
      6 c  Cabbage,fine shredded(1.5lb)
      1 c  Swiss cheese,shredded
 
  1. Steam potatoes in 1 inch boiling water 30 to 40 minutes, or until
  tender.
  
  2. Slice potatoes, unpeeled, into 1/2-slices; set aside.
  
  3. Cook bacon in a large skillet until crisp; set aside.
  
  4. Pour off all but 2 tablespoons bacon fat; saute onion in same
  skillet until golden.
  
  5. Stir in flour, thyme and salt.
  
  6. Gradually add beer and milk; stir, over low heat, until mixture
  boils and thickens.
  
  7. In 3-quart casserole, layer half the cabbage, potatoes, bacon,
  cheese and sauce; repeat with remaining ingredients.
  
  8. Cover and bake in preheated 375'F. oven 30 minutes.
  
  9. Uncover and bake 15 minutes longer, or until cabbage is tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese-Ham Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Green beans,French cut(10oz)
      4 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Onion,minced
      4 tb Flour,all-purpose
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 c  Ham,cooked,chopped
      2    Eggs,hard-cooked,chopped
      1 c  Cheddar cheese,shredded(4oz)
      2 tb Pimiento,chopped
      1 tb Parsley,chopped
    1/2 c  Croutons,herb-flavored,crush
 
  1. Cook beans according to package directions; drain and reserve 1/2
  cup liquid.
  
  2. Melt butter in a 2-quart saucepan; saute onion.
  
  3. Stir in flour and salt until well blended.
  
  4. Remove from heat; stir in milk and reserved 1/2 cup liquid.
  
  5. Heat to a boil, stirring constantly; boil and stir 1 minute.
  
  6. Remove from heat; stir in ham, eggs, cheese, pimiento andparsley.
  
  7. Place beans in baking dish; cover with ham sauce and sprinkle
  croutons over top.
  
  8. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 20 to 25 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tangy Touchdown Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 cn Pork and beans(31oz)
    3/4 lb Kielbasa,sliced
    1/4 c  Brown sugar,firmly packed
    1/4 c  Onion,chopped
    1/4 c  Catsup
      2 tb Green pepper,chopped
    1/4 ts Chili powder
      5    Pickles,Mexican,w/1T liquid
      1 ds Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Cumin
 
  1. Place all ingredients in a greased 2-quart casserole; mix well.
  
  2. Cover and bake in preheated 350'F. oven 35 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato & Egg Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Potatoes,medium-size
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      3 tb Bacon fat
    1/2 c  American cheese,grated
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Milk,evaporated,undiluted
 
  1. Peel potatoes; slice thinly.
  
  2. Sprinkle potatoes with salt, pepper and nutmeg.
  
  3. Heat bacon fat in a skillet; add potatoes and cook until browned
  and tender, stirring frequently.
  
  4. Spread potatoes evenly in a greased 1-quart casserole; sprinkle
  with cheese.
  
  5. Break eggs carefully over cheese; cover with cream.
  
  6. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 15 to 20 minutes, or until eggs are
  set.
  
  7. Serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miss Allie's Chicken and Rice Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken,3-4 lb*
           Salt
           Pepper
      1    Onion,lg,mild,peeled/chopped
      1 cn Mushrooms,drained (4 oz)
      4 tb Butter,cut into small pieces
      3 c  Chicken stock,boiling
      1 c  Rice,long-grained,uncooked
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350'F.
  
  2. Place half of the chicken in a Dutch oven (or heavy casserole with
  tight-fitting lid) and season with salt and pepper.
  
  3. Cover with the onions, mushrooms and half of the butter. Cover with
  remaining chicken, season, and dot with butter. Cover and bake for
  about 45 minutes. Remove chicken pieces; add rice and stir into
  cooking fat. Add the boiling stock. Place chicken over mixture.
  Recover and bake for about 1 hour, or until rice and chicken are
  tender and almost all liquid has been absorbed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Bean Casserole
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn French style green beans
      1 cn Cream of celery soup
      1 cn Chow mein vegetables
      1 cn French fried onions
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped almonds
 
  Drain the green beans and chow mein vegetables.  Mix all ingredients
  into casserole dish and cover, saving some French fried onions, then
  bake at 350 degrees for 20 minutes.  Remove cover, add onions and
  bake 10 minutes more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed Grain Mushroom Casserole
 Categories: Side dish, Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Wild rice
    1/2 c  Pearl barley
    1/2 c  Brown rice
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 lg Onion; thinly sliced
      4    Garlic cloves; chopped
      4 tb Unsalted butter or margarine
           -OR- Oil
    1/2 lb Mushrooms; thickly sliced
  3 1/2 c  Broth
      1 ts Crushed dried thyme
    1/2 ts Crushed dried oregano
           Salt & pepper; to taste
 
  Combine grains in a mixing bowl and set aside. Pour the oil into a
  2-3 qt. casserole which is safe for both stovetop and oven cooking,
  and place on med. heat. When hot , saute onion and garlic until
  tender and translucent, about 5-6 mins. Add the mixed grains and
  saute for 1 min., stirring constantly.
  
  Meanwhile melt butter or margarine (if using) in a separate pan on
  med. high heat. When hot , add mushrooms and saute quickly, stirring
  frequently, until the shrooms are hot and have just absorbed the
  "butter" (about 1 min.). Immediately remove from heat.
  
  Add the broth, herbs, and mushrooms to the casserole with the onions
  and grains, and bring to a boil. Season with salt and pepper to
  taste, cover tightly (use aluminum foil between pot and cover if
  necessary for a good seal), and bake at 350 degrees F for 1 hr.
  
  NOTES: I use alot less oil (only as much as needed to keep things from
  sticking in my cast-iron dutch oven), add hot peppers and fresh herbs
  (rosemary is especially delicious; i dislike dried oregano so i use
  less or none), add soy sauce instead of salt, and saute the mushrooms
  first in the same pan (taking them out when done) so i dont have to
  wash two pans :^>. Frankly i can't see where they get 8 servings
  from, this lasts me maybe 3 meals....It's really a hearty dish, so
  save it for a cold day (some of us still have a few left, despite the
  advent of spring). Enjoy!
  
  (8 servings as a side dish, less as an entree)
  
  From: karpen@nrlfs1.nrl.navy.mil (Judy Karpen) @Newsgroups:
  rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maine Lobster Casserole
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Chicken lobsters,boiled
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb All purpose flour
      5 sl Bread
      1 c  Milk or cream
 
  Salt and paprika to taste Bread crumbs or crushed cereal flakes for
  topping
  
  Melt butter in top of double boiler.  Add flour, mustard, salt and
  paprika. After making a paste of these, slowly, add cream or milk.
  Stir constantly to make smooth and continue to stir and cook until
  thickened. Add the lobster meat which has been cut into serving
  pieces. To the creamed lobster, add the bread, crusts removed, which
  has been broken into pieces, not too small.  Mix well and pour into
  casserole dish.
  
  Top mixture with buttered coarse bread crumbs or crushed cereal
  flakes. Bake in a 350 degree oven only long enough to reheat mixture
  and lightly toast topping.
  
  Makes 4 generous servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Make-Ahead Brunch Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 c  White bread,cubed
      4 oz Cheddar cheese,shredded
      4 oz Swiss cheese, shredded
    1/4 c  Green onion,chopped
    1/4 c  Green pepper,diced
    1/2 c  Tomato,seeded & diced
     10    Eggs,beaten
      4 c  Milk
      1 tb Parsley,chopped
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lb Bacon,fried & crumbled
 
  Generously grease 13 x 9-inch pan. Arrange bread cubes in bottom of
  dish. Layer cheese, green onions, green pepper, mushrooms and
  tomatoes on top of bread. In large bowl, combine eggs, milk, and
  seasonings; mix well. Pour egg mixture over bread; sprinkle bacon
  evenly over top. Cover; refrigerate overnight. Heat oven to 325 F.
  Bake uncovered 50 to 60 minutes or until center is set. Stand 10
  minutes before serving. Makes 12 servings.
  
  From "1993 fresh Produce & More";Minnesota Grown Farmer to Consumer
  Directory;Minnesota Department of Agriculture;90 West Plato
  Blve;St.Paul,MN 55107-2094
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tater Tot Casserole
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lg Onion
           -chopped
      3    Celery stalk
           -chopped
      6    Morning Star Grillers
           -cut up
           Tater Tots
      2 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 cn Water
           Cheese
           Parsley
 
  Chop up onion and celery, put in bottom of 9x13 pan.  Cut up Grillers
  and place on top of onion/celery.  Cover with frozen tater tots.  Mix
  the 2 cans mushroom soup with the one can water, pour over the top of
  mixture in pan.  Sprinkle cheese and parsley.
  
  Bake 1 hour at 350F.
  
  From Donna Bellchambers, Cindy's Aunt
  Charrin' off the Ol' Point..from the   O :-)
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 08-12-93 (10:31) Number:
  62714 From: LAWRENCE KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd:
  NO Subj: recipe Conf: (149) COOKING
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Company Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 cn Corn,whole kernel wht(17oz)
      1 cn Green beans(16oz)
      1 cn Cream/celery soup(10.75oz)
    1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
      1 c  Cheddar cheese,sharp,grated
    1/2 c  Celery,chopped
    1/2 c  Onion,chopped
    1/4 c  Green pepper,chopped
    3/4 c  Cracker crumbs,cheese-flavor
      2 tb Butter or margarine
 
  1. Combine corn, green beans, soup, sour cream, cheese, celery, onion
  and green pepper in a greased 2-quart casserole. 2. Bake in preheated
  325'F. oven 30 minutes. 3. Blend cracker crumbs and butter; sprinkle
  over casserole; bake 10 minutes longer.
   MMMMM Charrin' off the Ol' Point..from the O
  :-)
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 08-12-93 (10:32) Number:
  62720 From: LAWRENCE KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd:
  NO Subj: recipe Conf: (149) COOKING
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Lasagne Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Salad oil
      1 cn Tomatoes(28oz)
      1 cn Tomato sauce(8oz)
      1 pk Spaghetti sauce mix
    1/2 ts Garlic powder w/parsley
      1 ts Salt,seasoned
    1/2 ts Pepper,seasoned
    1/2 lb Lasagne noodles,broad
           Water,salted
    3/4 lb Mozzarella cheese,sliced
    3/4 lb Ricotta cheese
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese,grated
 
  1. Heat salad oil in a large skillet. 2. Add tomatoes, tomato sauce,
  spaghetti sauce mix and seasonings; blend thoroughly. 3. Bring to a
  boil; reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 25 minutes. Set aside. 4.
  Boil the tomato mixture in the bottom of a 12x8x2-inch baking dish;
  layer with a third of the lasagne noodles and a third each
  mozzarella, ricotta and tomato sauce. 5. Repeat layers 2 times,
  ending with tomato sauce; sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. 6. Bake,
  uncovered, in preheated 350'F. oven 30 minutes; let stand 10 minutes
  before cutting in squares.
   MMMMM Charrin' off the Ol' Point..from the O
  :-)
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 08-12-93 (10:32) Number:
  62721 From: LAWRENCE KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd:
  NO Subj: recipe Conf: (149) COOKING
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroni Meal-In-A-Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Salt
      3 qt Water,boiling
      2 c  Macaroni,elbow(8oz)
      1 cn Peas,sweet,undrained(17oz)
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Mustard,dry
      2 c  Milk
      1 c  Ham,cubed cooked(opt,1lb)
  1 1/2 c  Cheddar cheese,sharp,grated
    1/2 c  Olives,pimiento-stuffed
      2 tb Onion,chopped

MMMMM--------------------CHEESE CRUMB TOPPING-------------------------
    1/4 c  Cheddar cheese,sharp,grated
      2 tb Butter or margarine,melted
      2 tb Bread crumbs,dry
 
  1. Add 1 tablespoon salt to rapidly boiling water; gradually add
  macaroni so water continues to boil. 2. Cook, uncovered, stirring
  occasionally, until tender; drain in colander and set aside. 3. Drain
  peas, reserving 1/2 cup liquid. 4. Melt butter over medium heat; stir
  in flour, pepper, mustard and remaining tablespoon salt. 5. Gradually
  stir in milk and reserved liquid from peas; cook, stirring
  constantly, until sauce boils for 1 minute. 6. Combine sauce, peas,
  ham, cheese, olives and onion with macaroni. 7. Turn mixture into 2
  1/2-quart casserole; sprinkle with Cheese Crumb Topping. 8. Bake in
  preheated 375'F. oven 20 to 25 minutes, or until bubbling hot. ***
  CHEESE CRUMB TOPPING *** Combine all ingredients.
   MMMMM Charrin' off the Ol' Point..from the O
  :-)
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 08-12-93 (09:05) Number:
  62724 From: RANDY RIGG                   Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd:
  NO Subj: Oriental Popcorn               Conf: (149) COOKING
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Tortilla Casserole
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Bread, Main dish, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Basic Red Sauce
           Southwest Guacamole
    1/2 c  Vegetable Oil
     10    Corn Tortillas; *
      1 lb Ground Beef
      2    Anaheim Chiles; **
    1/2 c  Onion; Chopped, 1 Medium
     15 oz Pinto Beans; Drained, 1 cn
      8 oz Cheddar Cheese; Shredded, 2C

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Dairy Sour Cream
 
  *    Tortillas should be 6 to 7-inches in diameter and be cut into **
  Chiles should be seeded and finely chopped.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- Prepare Basic Red Sauce and Southwest Guacamole; set aside.  Heat
  oil in 10-inch skillet until hot.  Cook tortilla strips in oil until
  light golden brown, about 1 minute; drain.  Cook and stir ground
  beef, chiles, and onion until beef is brown; drain.  Heat oven to 350
  degrees F.  Arrange tortilla strips in bottom of greased rectangular
  baking dish 13 X 9 X 2-inches. Top with beef mixture, Basic Red
  Sauce, beans, and cheese.  Bake until hot and bubbly, 25 to 30
  minutes.  Serve with Southwest Guacamole and Sour Cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Peach Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Fruit, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Cut up chicken
      2 tb Margarine
      1 tb Oil
      1    Sliced onion
      1    Green pepper, cut in strips
      1    Large can peaches
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb White wine venegar
      2    Peeled sliced tomatoes
 
  Skin chicken and brown in oil.  Cover and simmer for 10 minutes;
  remove and put into casserole.  Sautee onion and pepper in skillet.
  Drain peaches, reserving syrup. Mix cornstarch, soysauce, vinegar and
  1 cup peach syrup; boil until clear. Add peaches and tomatoes.  Pour
  contents of skillet over chicken.  Cover caserole and bake 40 minutes
  at 375 degrees. Serve with rice to which some peaches and strips of
  pepper have been added
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Rice Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken; cut up, skinned
  1 1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Yellow onions; halved,sliced
      2 tb Minced fresh gingerroot
      4 lg Cloves garlic; minced
    3/4 lb Shiitake mushrooms; or
    3/4 lb -regular mushrooms
           -stemmed, halved, quartered
           -if big
      1    Yellow pepper; diced
      3 c  Chicken broth
  1 1/2 c  Jasmine rice

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
    651 x  Calories
     46 x  G protein
     76 x  G carbohydrate
     17 x  G fat
    101 x  My cholesterol
   1213 x  Mg sodium
 
  1.  Place chicken in bowl.  In cup, mix thyme, paprika, 1/2 t salt
  and 1/4 t pepper; sprinkle over chicken.  Turn to coat.
  
  2.  In Dutch oven, heat oil over medium-heat; brown chicken in
  batches, 3 to 4 minutes each batch, removing chicken to plate after
  browning.  To drippings in pan, add onions; saute 1 minute.  Add
  remaining ingredients and remaining salt and pepper.  Mix; top with
  chicken.  Cover; bake 35 to 40 minutes or until chicken and rice are
  cooked.
  
  From:  McCalls September 1993
  Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 08-04-93 (17:07) Number:
  60102 From: LAWRENCE KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd:
  NO Subj: recipe Conf: (149) COOKING
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mediterranean Seafood Casserole
 Categories: Seafood, Cheese/eggs, Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1    Clove garlic; minced
      1    Onion; chopped
      1    Bay leaf; crumbled
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 c  Dry white wine (or stock)
      1 cn (28 oz) tomatoes
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 lb Large raw shrimp
  1 1/2 lb Halibut steak
    1/2 lb Feta cheese
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Melted butter
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Heat oil in pan, and cook onion and garlic 3 minutes. Stir in bay
  leaf, thyme, sugar, wine, tomatoes, parsley (2 TB) and bring to a
  boil. Simmer covered, 30 mins. Shell and clean shrimp. Skin and bone
  halibut and cut into 1" cubes. Butter a large shallow baking dish.
  Crumble Feta cheese and spread it into the dish evenly. Pour tomato
  mixture over the Feta. Set the shrimps and halibut in the pan in a
  single layer, pressing down so each piece is covered by the sauce.
  Combine bread crumbs, melted butter and parsley. Spread this mixture
  over the top of the fish. Bake for 20-25 minutes until the fish is
  tender.
  
  From: "Recipes Only" Cookbook of the Home Maker's Magazine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Gulch Corn Casserole
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    3/4 c  Minced onion
      1 md Red bell pepper,stemmed,
           -seeded,and diced
      2 cn Cream-style corn
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/3 c  Tomatoes,peeled,seeded and
           -chopped
      2 tb Cornstarch,blended with
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Sharp cheddar or jack
           -cheese,shredded
 
  Uneasy sit the haunches of those constrained to ride the fluttery
  windup planes that carry travelers beyond the hub airports to land -
  or rather, skip and frolic - on gopher-pocked grassy fields. Most of
  these nervous passengers merely bite their nails; the tough-minded
  struggle to get some work done, take notes, or make plans.
  
  Dr. Gary Fauskin prefers to devise recipes, and his French Gulch Corn
  Casserole is the happy result of his self-adminstered in-flight
  psycho-therapy.
  
  On a recent trip from San Jose to Redding en route to French Gulch, he
  warded off apprehension by considering the inadequacies of existing
  corn casseroles and planning improvements. This is his winning
  formula.
  
  Melt butter in a 10-12" frying pan over medium-high heat. Add onion
  and bell pepper; stir often until vegetables are limp, 5-8 minutes.
  Remove
  
  from heat and mix in corn, cilantro, tomatoes, cornstarch mixture,
  and salt and pepper to taste.
  
  Scrape mixture into a shallow 1-1/2 quart casserole; sprinkle with
  cheese. Bake in a 350'F. oven until bubbling around edges, 30-40
  minutes.
  
  Per serving: 159 calories; 4.2 grams protein; 5.8 grams fat; (3.4
  grams saturated fat); 26 grams carbohydrates; 418 milligrams sodium;
  15 milligrams cholesterol.
  
  ~ Dr. Gary Fauskin, El Cajon, California
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basque Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Italian Sausage
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 lb Canned tomatoes
      6 c  Pared and diced potatoes (4)
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      1 c  Sliced celery
      2 tb Chopped celery leaves
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2    Beef bouillon cubes
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  In large saucepan or kettle, brown sausage over medium heat. Add
  onion and cook for 5 minutes.
  
  Add remaining ingredients.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer
  uncovered 40 minutes or until potatoes are tender.
  
  A little tabasco sauce to taste is good with this.  It actually
  improves in flavor as a leftover.
  
  Enjoy! Gloria Martin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Fried Rice
 Categories: Asian, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Water
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3    Green onions & tops, chopped
      3 c  Cold, cooked rice
    1/4 lb Cooked baby shrimp, chopped
      3 tb Kikkoman Soy Sauce
 
  Beat eggs with water just to blend; set aside.  Head oil in hot wok or
  large skilled over medium heat.  Add green onions; stir-fry 30
  seconds. Add eggs and scramble.  Stir in rice and cook until heated;
  gently separating grains.  Add shrimp and soy sauce; cook and stir
  until heated through.  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ketjap Manis
 Categories: Asian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Water
    2/3 c  Molasses
      1 c  Soy sauce
      1 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Coriander
 
  Bring water and sugar to a boil, then add the remaining ingredients.
  Simmer for 5 minutes.  Let cool.  Store in refrigerator in
  tightly-covered container.  Always shake before using.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Li Hung Chang's Rice
 Categories: Asian, Chinese, Pork
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 c  Cold cooked rice
    1/2 lb Roast pork, minced
    1/2 c  Chicken soup
      1    Green pepper, chopped
    1/4 c  Green peas, cooked
    1/4 lb Bamboo shoots, sauteed
           Salt, pepper to taste
           Soy sauce
           Peanut oil
 
  Combine pork, pepper, peas, bamboo shoots, salt, pepper and soy sauce
  to taste and sautee in a little peanute oil.  Saute the cold rice in
  a large pan in peanut oil.  Add the soup slowly and continue cooking
  and stirring until all moisture is absorbed and rice is dry and
  lightly browned.  Mix in other sauteed ingredients.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lasagna Deliciousa
 Categories: Italian, Pork, Beef, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 lb Uncooked Creamette Lasagna
      1 lb Bulk italian sausage
    1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Chopped onion
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 c  (28 ounces) tomatoes,
           Cut up, undrained
      2 c  Tomato paste
      2 ts Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Salt, divided
  1 1/2 ts Dried basil, crushed
    1/2 ts Fennel seeds
    1/4 ts Pepper
     15 oz Ricotta cheese
      1    Egg, beaten
      1 tb Parsley flakes
      1 c  Sliced pitted ripe olives
      4 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
    3/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Prepare lasagna according to package directions; drain.  Cook sausage,
  ground, beef, onion and garlic in large skillet over medium-high heat
  until sausage is no longer pink and onion is tender.
  
  Stir in tomatoes, tomatoe paste, sugar, 2 teaspoons of the salt, the
  basil, fennel seeds and pepper.  Bring to a boil over high heat.
  Reduce heat to low.  Simmer, uncovered, for about 20 minutes.
  
  In small bowl, blend ricotta, egg, parsley and remaining 1/2 teaspoon
  of salt.  Spoon 1 1/2 cups of meat sauce into 13x9 inch baking dish.
  Layer 1/3 each of the lasagna, remaining meat sauce, ricotta mixture,
  olives, mozzarella and Parmesan cheese into dish.
  
  Repeat layers.  COver with foil.  Bake at 375 F for 25 minutes.
  Uncover. Bake about 20 minutes more or until heated through.  Let
  stand 10 minutes before cutting.
  
  Makes about 8 to 10 servings....
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Lasagna
 Categories: Italian, Cheese/eggs, Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Can Tomato Sauce
    1/4 ts Basil leaves
    1/8 ts Fresh Ground Pepper
      1 c  Ricotta cheese
      1 ts Parsley
      1 lg Tomato
      1 md Onion, chopped
    1/4 ts Salt, optional
    1/4 ts Oregano leaves
    1/2 c  Shredded Mozzarella Cheese
      3 md Zucchini, about 9-in.long
      2 tb Grated Parmesan Cheese
 
  1.     Combine tomato sauce, onion, basil, salt, pepper & oregano in
  small mixing bowl; set aside.  In medium bowl, combine ricotta,
  mozzarella and parsley.  Set aside. 2. Peel zucchini and cut off
  ends. Slice zucchini lengthwise into strips. Arrange strips in
  8x8-in. baking dish. Cover with wax paper. 3. Microwave at High for 6
  to 8 minutes, or until fork tender, rearranging after half the time.
  Drain liquid; place zucchini on towels to absorb excess moisure; cool
  slightly. 4. Layer 4 to 6 of the strips in the bottom of baking dish.
  Reserve 6 strips for second layer. Spread ricotta mixture over
  zucchini. Layer with sliced tomatoes. 5. Spread half of tomato sauce
  mixture over tomatoes; top with zucchini slices. Pour remaining sauce
  over zucchini and sprinkle with Parmesan. 6. Reduce power to 50%
  (medium). Microwave uncovered 20 to 25 minutes or until zucchini is
  tender and mixture is hot in center.  Let stand 5 minutes before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minnestrone Soup
 Categories: Italian, Soup/stew, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Hamburger
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Can beef broth
      2    Cans water
      3 ts Beef soup base (heaping)
  1 1/2 ts Italian seasoning OR
    1/2 ts EACH fresh oregano,
           Basil, sage, rosemary,
           And thyme.
     16 oz Can whole tomatos --broken
           Into byte sized pieces
      8 oz Can kidney beans/undrained
  1 1/2 c  Sliced carrots
      1 c  Frozen green beans
      1 c  Frozen lima beans
      1 c  Small seashell macaroni
 
  Brown hamburger, onion, garlic and pepper.  Add rest of ingredients
  except macaroni. cook for at least 20 min add macaroni and cook until
  macaroni is done. If you can find the fresh herbs use them, I think
  it makes a big difference in the soup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Parmesan
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      2 lg Cans tomatoes
           (approx. 32 oz ea)
    1/2 c  Ketchup
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Oil
        md Eggplants
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      1 c  Italian bread crumbs
      1 c  Plain bread crumbs
      1 tb Oregano (optional)
    1/2 lb Mozzarella cheese,
           Thinly sliced
 
  Add 1 or 2 creole tomatoes, if they are in season (These are tomatoes
  local to New Orleans.  They are delicious!!)
  
  Simmer onion, garlic, tomatoes, ketchup, salt and pepper for 30
  minutes. Add 1/2 c oil to frying pan while other mixture is
  simmering. Slice eggplant into 1/2 inch slices (slice only enough to
  fit into fry pan) Do NOT slice ahead of time.)  Add eggplant to HOT
  oil. Fry until slightly browned.  Press each slice against side of
  pan to drain oil before removing.  Add more oil as needed.
  
  Mix Parmesan cheese, parsley, bread crumbs, and oregano in a bowl.
  
  Place one layer of eggplant in a flat casserole dish. Sprinkle with
  bread crumb mixture and cover with tomato mixture.  Alternate layeres
  and top with mozzarella cheese.
  
  Bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Lasagna
 Categories: Italian, Beef, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Onion, minced
      1    Clove garlic menced
      1 lb Ground beef
      2 ts Shortening
      1 md Can whole tomatoes
      1 cn Tomato sauce
      1 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 lb Lasagna noodles
  2 1/2 qt Boiling water
    1/2 lb Sliced Mozzarella cheese
      1 c  Cream cottage cheese
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese
 
  Saute onion, garlic, and meat in shortening about 20 minutes.  Add
  next four ingredients. with 1 tsp salt.  Simmer for 40 minutes.  Cook
  noodles with 1 tbsp salt for 20 minutes; drain.
  
  Put 1/3 meat mixture in baking dish.  Add layer of noodles, add 1/2
  cottage cheese, 1/3 Mozzarella, and 1/2 Cheddar.  Repeat layers,
  ending with remaining meat mixture and top with remaining 1/3
  Mozzarella cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Broccoli and Tomato Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Broccoli
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, fresh
    3/4 c  Black olives, pitted, drain
      1 c  Tomatoes, cherry

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Vinegar, white wine
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Parsley, fresh chopped
      1    Onion, green, minced
      1    Garlic, clove, minced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper, freshly ground
 
  PREP TIME: 20 MIN        MARINADE TIME: 3 HOURS OR MORE 1. Trim
  flowerets from broccoli, you should have about 1 quart. Reserve stems
  for another use. 2. Drop broccoli flowerets into boiling salt water
  for 1 min. or just until they turn bright green; drain. 3. Trim
  mushroom stems to 1/2-inch. 4. Combine broccoli, mushrooms, olives
  and tomatoes in bowl. 5. Measure oil, vinegar, lemon juice, parley,
  onion, garlic, salt and pepper into small bowl.  Whisk until blended.
  6. Pour dressing over vegetable mixture. 7. Turn gently to coat
  vegetables.  Cover and refrigerate 3 or more
    hours until ready to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cannoli  (Cream Rolls)
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 c  Ricotta cheese
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Finely chopped candied
           Citron
    1/4 c  Semi=sweet chocolate pieces

MMMMM---------------------------SHELL--------------------------------
      3 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Shortening
      2    Eggs, well beaten
      2 tb White vinegar
      2 tb Cold water
      2 oz Pistachio nuts
      1    Egg white, slightly beaten
 
  FOR FILLING:  Combine and beat until smooth (about 10 min. with an
  electric mixer at medium-high speed) Stir in, mixing thoroughly,
  citron and chocolate pieces Place mixture in refrigerator to chill.
  FOR SHELLS: Sift together first 4 ingredients into a bowl. Cut
  shortening in with a pastry blender until pieces are size of small
  peas. Stir in eggs. Blend in, a tablespoon at a time, the vinegar and
  cold water. Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead until
  smooth and elastic, about 5 to 8 minutes. Use a small amount of
  additional flour if necessary to get a smooth dough. Wrap in waxed
  paper and chill in refrigerator for 30 minutes.
  
  Set out six aluminum cannoli tubes (6 inches long, about 3/4-inch
  diameter).  Set out deep saucepan or automatic deep-fryer. Add
  vegetable oil (or half vegetable oil and half olive oil) and heat to
  360 F. Cut an oval shaped pattern from cardboard (about 6 x 4 1/2
  inches). Blanche in boiling water, then cool and finely chop
  pistachios. Roll chilled dough an lightly floured surface to 1/8 inch
  thickness. Cut with a pastry cutter and the oval pattern. Wrap dough
  loosely around tubes slightly overlapping opposite edges. Seal edges
  by brushing with egg white. press edges together to seal.
  
  Fry only as many shells as will float uncrowded one layer deep in the
  hot oil.  Fry about 8 minutes or until golden brown, turning
  occasionally in the oil.  Drain over the pan before removing to paper
  toweling. Cool slightly and remove tubes, then cool completely.
  Continue forming and frying cannoli shells.
  
  When ready to serve, fill with the chilled ricotta filling. Sprinkle
  ends with the chopped nuts and dust with confectioners' sugar.
  
  Yield: About 16 to 18 cannoli
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Verdura Mista  (Mixed Vegetablse)
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 bn Broccoli
      1    Head cauliflower,
           Cut into flowerets
      3    Potatoes, peeled and
           Sliced 1/4 inch thick
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Safflower oil
      3    Cloves garlic, finely
           Chopped
      2 c  Chopped tomatoes, fresh
           If possible (drain canned)
     22    Black olives (about)
           Hot pepper flakes to
           Taste (Optional)
      1 tb Dried oregano
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper to taste
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  Skin broccoli stems and quarter them lengthwise.  Cut flowerets into
  large pieces.  Blanch broccoli, cauliflower, and potatoes in boiling
  water then drain.  Heat the oils in a medium skillet and add one
  third the chopped garlic.  When garlic begins to color, add tomatoes
  and simmer, covered, for 5 minutes. Place the blanched vegetables in
  a large, shallow baking dish, add the rest of the ingredients,
  including the remaining chopped garlic. Toss lightly, then spread the
  tomatoes on the surface. Cover and bake in a preheated 500 F oven
  until vegetables are cooked, about 20 minutes.  Do not overcook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Vegetables
 Categories: Italian, Rice, Side dish, Salad
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    3/4 c  Rice
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Water
      6 tb Oil
      2 tb White wine vinegar
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Turmeric
    1/4 lb Spinach
    1/2 c  Sliced green onion
      4    Crumbled slices crisp
           Bacon
 
  Simmer rice, covered, in salted water until rice is done. Drain.
  Combine oil, vinegar, soy, pepper, turmeric. Stir into the still warm
  rice. TEAR the spinach into small pieces. Toss spinach, onion and
  bacon into the rice.
  
  Eat it as a cold salad, or warm as a side dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Dough (Manual Pasta Machines Only)
 Categories: Italian, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/3 c  All purpose flour
           (for better pasta, use
  1 1/3 c  AP flour and
      1 c  Semolina flour)
      2 lg Eggs
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Water
 
  Mix 2 cups flour and salt in bowl, reserve 1/3 cup for later. Make a
  well in the center Mix eggs, olive oil and water and pour into well.
  Stir flour into egg mixture until dough forms into a ball. Turn out
  onto floured surface and kneed for about 10 minutes, adding extra
  flour if too moist. Kneed until dough is smooth and elastic. Cover
  with towel and rest for 30 minutes. Cut into 4 portions, keep pieces
  covered until used.
  
  Get out your machine and set dial on widest setting (1 on the Atlas).
  Flatten dough ball and run through rollers several times until smooth
  (you may add a bit of flour here too). Move rollers to next setting
  and roll again once. Continue to roll until pasta is the proper
  thickness (5 or 6 on the Atlas).  You may cut sheet in half if it's
  too long. Continue with other pieces and then put the finished sheet
  aside to dry for about 3 minutes.  Attach desired pasta cutters and
  run the sheets through.
  
  You can use right away or spread out the pasta to dry overnight and
  then freeze extra.
  
  To cook, drop into large pot of boiling water with a bit of salt and
  oil. Cook until al dente, which should only take about 2 minutes for
  fresh.
  
  A tip - be sure the dough is fairly dry, otherwise it won't cut into
  separate strands.
  
  Another tip - You can substitute heavy cream for the 1/3 c water for a
  richer pasta. Great for fettuchini alfredo.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coquilles Saint-Jacques Sautees a la Provencale
 Categories: Italian, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Or about 2 c. scallops
           Cut into 1/2 inch pieces
           Lemon juice, salt, and
           Pepper
    1/2 c  Flour
           Olive oil or cooking oil
           A 10 inch frying pan
           (preferably a no-stick
           Pan)
      2 tb Minced shallots or
           Scallions
      1    Clove garlic, mashed
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Minced fresh parsley
 
  Dry the scallops in paper towels, then place on a large sheet of waxed
  paper.  Sprinkle with drops of lemon juice, then with salt and
  pepper. The moment before sauteing, dredge with flour and shake in a
  sieve to dislodge excess flour. Film the frying pan with a 1/16-inch
  layer of oil. When almost smoking, add the scallops. Toss for 4 to 5
  minutes until scallops are lightly browned.  Then toss for a moment
  with the shallots or scallions, and garlic; finally toss with the
  butter and parsley and serve. Suggested accompaniments: If the
  scallops are a first course, accompany with French bread. For a main
  course, accompany with broiled tomatoes and green beans. Notes:
  Sauteed scallops should be crisp light brown outside and moistly
  tender inside. Keys to success are: have your sauteing oil very hot
  before the scallops go in, and have no more than one layer of
  scallops in the pan.  Otherwise the scallops will steam, exude
  moisture, and will not brown. You may find, in using frozen scallops,
  that they will start out nicely, then suddenly release juices in the
  pan; to avoid this, blanch them before cooking by dropping them in a
  large pan of rapidly boiling water and bringing them quickly back to
  the boil, then drain immediately, dry them, and proceed with the
  recipe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Stuffed Shells
 Categories: Italian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 sm Onion, diced
     28 oz Can tomatoes
      6 oz Can tomato paste
      2 ts Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Oregano leaves
           Salt and pepper to taste
     12 oz Pkg. jumbo macaroni shells
     20 oz Frozen creamed spinach in
           Boiling bags
     15 oz Container ricotta cheese
      8 oz Shredded mozzarella cheese
 
  In a large saucepan over medium heat, heat oil and cook onion until
  tender, stirring often. Add tomatoes(chopped or squished with your
  hands) with their liquid, tomato paste, brown sugar, oregano (oops I
  just realised I forgot-1 clove garlic, minced), garlic, 1 1/2 t. salt
  and 1/4 t. pepper (or to taste). Heat to boiling; then reduce heat to
  low, cover and simmer for 20 minutes.  Meanwhile, prepare macaroni
  shells as label directs; pour into collander and cool slightly.
  Prepare spinach as label directs, pour into bowl and cool (again)
  slightly. Stir in ricotta and mozzarella (I also add 1/4 c.
  parmagian), 1 t. salt and 1/4 t. pepper. Fill each cooked shell with
  about 1 T.  cheese mixture.  Preheat oven to 350. Spoon sauce evenly
  into 14"X10" (or 13"X9") roasting pan, arrange filled shells in
  sauce. Cover roasting pan with foil and bake 30 minutes or until hot
  and bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ravioli with Ricotta Filling
 Categories: Italian, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 36 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------BASIC PASTA DOUGH--------------------------
      4 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      4    Eggs
      6 tb Very cold water

MMMMM----------------------RICOTTA FILLING---------------------------
      3 c  Ricotta cheese (about
           1 1/2 lbs)
      2    Eggs, well beaten
      1 tb Parmesan cheese
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  BASIC PASTA DOUGH Stir into a large bowl a mixture of: 4 c sifted
  flour and salt. Make a well in center of flour.  Add eggs, one at a
  time, mixing slightly after each addition: Add gradually about: 6
  Tablespoons very cold water Mix well to make a stiff dough. Turn
  dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead for 3 to 5 minutes
  until smooth and elastic. (Use shorter time if you are using a pasta
  machine to roll the dough.) RICOTTA FILLING Combine in a large bowl
  all filling ingredients. ASSEMBLY Divide dough into fourths.  Lightly
  roll each portion 1/8 inch thick and cut lengthwise into 5 inch wide
  strips.  Use the strips immediately--do nt allow to dry. Place 2
  teaspoons of the filling 1 1/2 inches from the narrow end and in the
  center of the strip. Continue along the strip, placing the filling at
  about 3 1/2 inch intervals.  Fold the strip in half lengthwise,
  covering the mounds of filling.  To seal, press the edges together
  with the tines of a fork.  Press gently between the mounds to form
  rectangles about 3 1/2 inches long. Cut apart with a pastry cutter
  and press the cut edges with the tines of a fork to seal. COOKING In
  a large saucepan bring to a boil: 7 quarts water 2 Tb salt Gradually
  add the ravioli (about one-half at a time).  Boil rapidly, uncovered,
  about 20 minutes or until tender. Remove raviolis with a slotted
  spoon and drain.  Palce on a warmed platter and top with tomato
  sauce.  Sprinkle with: grated Romano or Parmesan cheese Serve
  immediately.
  
  Makes about 3 dozen ravioli.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti Carbanara
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Bacon cooked and crumbled
      1 md Onion, diced
      1    Green pepper, diced
      1 sm Clove garlic crushed
      2 tb Bacon fat fom above

MMMMM---------------------------PASTA--------------------------------
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Olive oil
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Water
 
  Saute the onion and pepper. Cook pasta and drain. Add pepper, onion
  and bacon Add 2 eggs and stir over med heat until egg starts to cook.
  You don't want the eggs to become scrambled. It should be on the
  creamy side. Add pepper and parmesan to taste. PASTA: Mix the flour,
  salt and olive oil, then beat in the eggs, (a food processor, or a
  mixmaster does this very easily).  When well combined, add all of the
  water. Work until this becomes a dough ball, and then knead for two
  minutes, stretching out the dough, and folding it. Put in a plastic
  bag, and store in the fridge for at least a half an hour. Divide the
  dough into four pieces, and run through the machine, adding flour
  (this is a good place to work in some semolina) so that the dough is
  not sticky. After kneading on the widest setting for about 10/15
  passes, reduce the size of the roller one step at a time until you
  reach the thinnest size. Put through the cutter of your choice, and
  dry on a rack or a line. Use fresh, or freeze unused portions. Easy,
  and quick and impresses the hell out of your guests! I sometimes add
  thyme, or oregano to my dough when mixing (about 2 t) and this adds
  nicely to the taste of the dough.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Garlic Soup
 Categories: Italian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Garlic heads (about 1/2
           Pound total), unpeeled
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      6 tb (3/4 stick) unsalted
           Butter
      4    Leeks (white part only),
           Chopped
      1    Onion, diced
      6 tb All purpose flour
      4 c  Chicken stock or canned
           Broth, heated
    1/3 c  Dry Sherry
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Fresh lemon juice
           Salt and fresh ground
           White pepper
      2 tb Chopped fresh chives
 
     Preheat oven to 350F.  Cut off top 1/4 inch of each garlic head.
  Place garlic heads in small shallow baking dish.  Drizzle oil over.
  Bake until golden, about 1 hour.  Cool slightly.  Press individual
  garlic cloves between thumb and finger to release garlic.  Chop
  garlic.
     Melt butter in heavy large saucepan over medium heat.  Add garlic,
  leeks and onion and saute until onion is translucent, about 8
  minutes. Reduce heat to low.  Add flour and cook 10 minutes, stirring
  occasionally. Stir in hot stock and Sherry.  Simmer 20 minutes,
  stirring occasionally. Cool slightly.  Puree soup in batches in
  blender or processor. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.  Cover and
  refrigerate.)
     Return soup to saucepan.  Add cream and simmer until thickened,
  about 10 minutes.  Add lemon juice to taste.  Season with salt and
  white pepper. Ladle into bowls.  Garnish with chives.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Meat Ravioli
 Categories: Pasta, Italian, Poultry, Meat, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Chicken breast OR veal OR
           Canned tuna; chopped
      2 tb Shallots; finely chopped
      2    Plum tomatoes; chopped
      1 ts Dried leaf sage; crumbled
    1/4 ts Mace
    1/4 c  Parmeson or Romano cheese;
           Grated
    1/2 c  Parsley; chopped
    1/2 ts Black pepper; coursely
           Ground
      1 tb Brandy or dry sherry
           Pasta dough

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Olive oil
      4    Scallions; thinly sliced
      2    Cloves garlic; minced
      1 c  Tomatoes; crushed
      1 c  Tomato sauce
      1 tb Basil
 
  Place all ingredients, except pasta, in a large mixing bowl and
  combine thouroughly.  Fill ravioli with mixture.
  
  Heat oil over medium heat.  Stir-fry scallions and garlic for about 30
  seconds.  Add tomatoes, tomato sauce and basil.  Stir.  Simmer for
  10-15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saltimbocca #1
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Veal scallopine, each
           Piece about 5" square
      1 ts Dried sage
    1/4 lb Thin slices of prosciutto
      3 tb Butter
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
 
  Sprinkle veal slices with sage.  Cover each slice with a slice of
  prosciutto and trim this to the same size as the meat.  (Reserve
  trimmings for sauces.)  Pin prosciutto slices to the veal slices with
  toothpicks. Heat the butter in a large frying pan.  Add meat in one
  layer and cook for 2 to 3 minutes.  Turn with a pancake turner and
  cook  until golden on both sides.  Season to taste.  Place the slices
  of meat, ham side up, on a heated serving platter and remove the
  picks.  Keep  meat warm.  Add the wine to pan, scrape the brown bits
  from the bottom, and bring quickly to the boiling point. Pour the
  sauce over the meat and serve immediately. 4 to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saltimbocca Alla Genovese (From Liguria Area)
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Veal scallops, sliced 1/4"
           Thick, pounded thin
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           Fresh sage, dried sage or
           Ground sage
    1/2 lb Thin slices of prosciutto
           Flour
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Marsala or dry white wine
    1/2 c  Hot beef bouillon
 
  Trim the veal scallops so that they are approximately all the same
  size. (Save trimmings for sauces.)  Sprinkle a little salt and pepper
  on each slice of meat.  Place 2 or more leaves of fresh or dried sage
  on each veal slice, or sprinkle about a scant 1/4 teaspoon ground
  sage on each. Cut prosciutto to the same size as veal slices.  Top
  each veal slice with a prosciutto slice.  Roll up and secure with
  toothpicks or tie with kitchen thread.  Coat each veal roll lightly
  with flour, shaking off excess flour. Divide butter between 2 large
  frying pans; heat it  without browning. Over medium heat, cook veal
  rolls about 5 minutes, or until golden brown on all sides.  Reduce
  heat and add 1/2 cup marsala  and 1/4 cup beef bouillon to each
  frying pan.  Cover frying pans and  cook for 5 to 10 minutes longer;
  cooking time depends on the size and  thickness of the rolls. Shake
  the pans frequently to prevent sticking.  If necessary, add a little
  more beef bouillon; there should be 1 to 2 tablespoons sauce for each
  veal bird. Transfer the cooked veal birds  to a heated serving dish
  and spoon the sauce over them.  Serve  immediately and very hot with
  a tossed green salad.  6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Almendrado
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Onion, Chopped, (1/2 Cup)
      2 tb Margarine Or Butter
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
      1 c  Chicken Broth
    1/4 c  Slivered Almonds
      1 tb Ground Red Chile Flakes
           (Not Red Pepper)
      1 ts Vinegar
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Ground Cinnamon
      4    Boneless Chicken Breast
           Halves
           Slivered Almonds For A
           Garnish
 
  Cook and stir onion in margarine and oil in 10-inch skillet until
  tender. Stir in broth, 1/4 cup almonds, the ground red chiles,
  vinegar, sugar and cinnamon.  Heat to boiling; reduce heat.  Simmer
  uncovered for 10 minutes.
  
  Spoon mixture into blender container; cover and blend on low speed
  until smooth, about 1 minute.  Return sauce to skillet.  Dip chicken
  breasts into sauce to coat both sides.  Place skin sides up in single
  layer in skillet. Heat to boiling; reduce heat.  Cover and simmer
  until done, about 45 minutes.
   Serve sauce over chicken; garnish with slivered almonds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Pesto Quiche
 Categories: Italian, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    9" prebaked pastry shell
      3 sm Zucchini (halved and cut
           In 1/4" slices
      2 tb Pesto
      2 c  Swiss cheese, grated
  1 1/4 c  Jack cheese, grated
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  Red bell pepper, chopped
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Half-and-half
 
  Precook zucchini (saute in butter or microwave 5 minutes). Cool and
  drain off excess moisture.  In mixing bowl, combine zucchini, pesto,
  cheeses, seasonings, and pepper.  Mound filling in pastry shell.
  Whisk eggs and half-and-half until smooth. Pour over filling. Bake in
  preheated 375 oven for 30 minutes or until done. If top begins to
  brown too fast, cover with foil.  Quiche is done when knife inserted
  in center comes out clean. Allow to stand on wire rack 5-10 minutes
  before cutting. Serve hot. Quiche may be reheated.  Great with sour
  cream.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Pesto
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped basil leaves,
           Cleaned and dried
      3    Cloves garlic
    1/2 c  Pine nuts or walnuts
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Good quality olive oil
 
  In a blender, combine basil, garlic, nuts, and cheese.  Slowly add oil
  while blender is running.  Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saltimbocca Alla Romana
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Veal scaloppine, each
           Piece 5 inches square
      1 ts Dried sage
    1/4 lb Thin slices prosciutto
      3 tb Butter
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
 
        Sprinkle veal slices with sage.  Cover each slice with a slice
  of prosciutto and trim this to the same size as the veal, reserving
  the trimmings for sauces.  Pin the prosciutto slices to the veal
  slices with toothpicks.  Heat the butter in a large frying pan.  Add
  the meat in one layer and cook for 2 to 3 minutes.  Turn with a
  pancake turner and cook until golden on both sides.  Season to taste.
  Place the slices of meat, ham side up, on a heated serving platter
  and remove the toothpicks. Keep the meat warm.  Add the wine to the
  pan and scrape the browned bits from the bottom; bring quickly to the
  boiling point.  Pour the sauce over the meat and serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Manicotti (Mamma Leone's)
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      4    Eggs
  4 1/2 ts Cold water
           Pinch   salt
      1 tb Olive oil
      3 c  Meat sauce
    1/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese

MMMMM-------------------STUFFING FOR MANICOTTI------------------------
    3/4 c  Ricotta cheese
    3/4 lb Mozarella cheese, diced
      3    Eggs, lightly beaten
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
        pn Black pepper
 
        Place flour on a pastry board and make a well in the center.
  Break the eggs into the well and add the water, a little at a time,
  and the salt. Knead for about 10 minutes.  Let stand, covered, for
  about 1 hour. Cut dough into 4 pieces and roll as thin as you can.
  Cut into rectangles 4 inches wide by 6 inches long.  Place between
  pieces of waxed paper. You should have about 12 pieces.  Cook, half
  at a time, in 4 quarts salted boiling water with olive oul added.
  Cook for 5 minutes. Drain and place between 2 towels.
        Divide stuffing into 12 parts.  Place a mound of stuffing on
  each dough rectangle about 1/3 inch from a long edge.  Mound should
  be about 1/2 inch thick and 1/2 inch wide.  Fold dough over twice.
  Spread a thin layer of the meat sauce on the bottom of a baking pan.
  Arrange manicotti about 1/4 inch apart in the pan and spoon the rest
  of the sauce over the top. Sprinkle a teaspoon of Parmesan cheese
  over each of the manicotti. Bake in a preheated slow (300 F) oven for
  15 to 20 minutes. Drain the ricotta cheese.  Combine all of the
  ingredients and mix well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese-Stuffed Manicotti
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------CHEESE FILLING----------------------------
    1/2 lb Fresh mozzarella cheese,
           1/2-inch dice
      2 lb Ricotta cheese (or 2
           15-ounce containers)
    1/4 lb Prosciutto, 1/4-inch dice
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Freshly graterd Parmesan
           Cheese
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
     14    Manicotti shells
      3 c  Tomato sauce (Meat or
           Marinara)
    1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
        TO MAKE THE FILLING:  combine all the filling ingredients and
  mix very thoroughly.
        Heat 4 to 6 quarts of salted water to the boil in a large pot;
  add 2 tablespoons oil to help prevent pasta from sticking.  Add half
  of the manicotti and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, or until not quite al
  dente. Stir occasionally with a long-handled fork.  Hold a strainer
  over the pot and use a slotted spoon to remove 1 or 2 manicotti at a
  time from the boiling water, placing them in the strainer.  Shake
  manicotti free of water over the pot.  Spread a clean kitchen towel
  on the kitchen counter. Place the manicotti side by side on the
  towel, which will absorb all the remaining moisture.  (The shells
  must be completely dry before stuffing.) Repeat until all shells are
  cooked.  Cool.  Generously butter a baking dish, 13 x 10 inches.
  Fill each shell with some of the stuffing, letting a little of the
  stuffing come out on either end.  This is best done with a pastry
  tube and a large nozzle; otherwisew use a regular teaspoon. Lay the
  stuffed manicotti side by side in the buttered dish and surround them
  with any manicotti shells you may not have sufficient stuffing for.
  Pour half the tomato sauce over the shells and sprinkle with 1/2 cup
  Parmesan cheese. Bake in a preheated moderate oven for 15 to 20
  minutes. Heat remaining tomato sauce to serve separately.  Serve with
  additional Parmesan Cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three-Cheese Manicotti
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn (8 ounces) tomato sauce
      1    Envelope spaghetti sauce
           Mix
      2 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
      1 c  Cream-style cottage cheese
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/4 c  Snipped parsley
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      8    Manicotti shells, cooked
           And drained
 
   Blend tomato sauce, spaghetti sauce mix, and 1 1/2 cup water. Simmer,
  uncovered for 10-12 minutes.  Meanwhile, combine 1 cup mozzarella,
  cottage cheese, and Parmesan.  Add eggs, parsley, salt, and pepper;
  mix lightly. Stuff manicotti shells with cheese mixture, using about
  1/4 cup for each. Pour 1/2 cup of sauce mixture in to 12 x 7 1/2 x
  2-inch baking dish. Arrange manicotti in dish; pour remaining sauce
  atop. Sprinkle with remaining mozzarella.  Bake uncovered at 350
  until bubbly, 25-30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne in Tomato Sauce with Crabmeat
 Categories: Italian, Seafood, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 md Onion, minced
      3 tb Minced Italian parsley
      1 cn (28 ounce) plum tomatoes,
           Chopped coarsely with
           Juices reserved
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 lb Lump crabmeat, picked over
           And flaked
           Salt and ground black
           Pepper
     12 oz Penne (or rotini, med.
           Shells)
 
  Heat olive oil in a medium skillet.  Add the onions and parsley; saute
  until onions soften, about 3 minutes.  Add reserved juices from the
  canned tomatoes; simmer until thickened slightly, about 10 minutes.
  Add tomatoes and wine; simmer to blend flavors, about 5 minutes.  Add
  the crabmeat; simmer until heated through, about 3 minutes. Season
  with 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon ground pepper or to taste.
  
  Meanwhile, bring 6 quarts water to boil in a soup kettle.  Add 1
  tablespoon salt and penne; cook until just tender, about 9 minutes.
  Drain and return penne to soup kettle.  Add sauce; toss to combine.
  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fideo
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Oil
      4    Coils of fideo ( coil
           Vermicelli)
      2 tb Minced onion
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Canned tomato sauce
      3 c  Water
           Salt, pepper
 
  Heat oil, add fideo and cook until lightly browned.  Add onion and
  cook until tender.  Add garlic, tomato sauce and water and season to
  taste with salt and pepper.  Bring to a boil.  Lower heat, cover and
  simmer for 10 minutes.
  
  Thats the plain version...add ground beef, fry it on the side...then
  add the cooked, drained beef when you add the garlic etc.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Pesto Pasta
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Cloves garlic, sliced
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Fresh Basil leaves
    1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Light-colored miso
      1 tb Lemon juice
      6 tb Toasted Pine nuts
      9 oz Dry durum wheat pasta
      1    Sweet red pepper, cut
           Into slivers
 
  Saute garlic in olive oil.  Place in blender or food processor
  container with basil, 1/4 cup water, miso, lemon juice and 3 Tblsp.
  pine nuts. Process until smooth, adding remaining 1/4 cup water if
  thinner consistency is desired. Cook pasta al dente according to
  package directions. Drain. Serve sauce over pasta, sprinkled with 3
  Tblsp. pine nuts and garnished with red pepper slivers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saltimbocca #2
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Veal cutlets, very thinly
           Sliced
      2 ts Bon Appetit
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Rubbed sage
    1/8 ts MSG
    1/2 lb Prosciutto, sliced thin
      6 tb Sweet butter
    1/2 ts Beef flavor base
    1/4 c  Hot water
      2 tb Dry white wine
 
  Cut veal into serving-size pieces.  Sprinkle with mixture of Bon
  Appetit, pepper, sage and MSG.  Place a slice of prosciutto on each
  piece of veal; fasten with a toothpick or small skewer.  Melt 4
  tablespoons of the butter in large skillet.  Saute meat 2 to 3
  minutes on each side, ending with the prosciutto side up.  remove to
  hot platter. To the drippings in skillet, add beef flavor base, water
  and the remaining butter, stirring to mix well. Heat until butter is
  melted, then add wine and simmer 2 to 3 minutes. Spoon sauce over
  meat.  Serve immediately with sauteed mushrooms and zucchini. You
  will find this recipe good for the chafing dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Piccata
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless veal round,
           (about 9-10 small pieces)
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      3 tb Flour
    3/4 ts Dried oregano
      3 tb Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic
      1 lg Onion, chopped
  1 1/2 c  Beef broth
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
      8    Thin slices lemon
      2 tb Capers
    1/4 c  Finely minced fresh
           Parsley
 
  Rub the veal pieces with the salt, pepper, flour, and oregano. Heat
  the oil over moderate-low heat in a 12-inch skillet. Add the garlic
  and onion and saute for 3-5 minutes or until soft but not browned.
  With a slotted spoon remove the onion and garlic and set aside. Raise
  the heat to medium-high and brown the veal slices on both sides.
  Return the onion and garlic to the pan and add the broth. Bring to a
  boil, cover, then turn to simm for 10-15 minutes. Stir in the lemon
  juice and coat the veal slices evenly with the juice. Arrange on a
  heated serving platter and garnish with the lemon slices, capers, and
  parsley. A nice accompaniment is Gnocchi a la Romaine.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gorgonzola and Fresh Thyme Sauce for Pasta
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      6 oz Aged gorgonzola cheese,
           Crumbled
      1 ts Fresh thyme OR
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      3    Generous grates nutmeg OR
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
           Salt
           White pepper
           Hot cooked pasta
 
  Stir together cream, cheese, thyme, and nutmeg in a large skillet.
  Cook gently over medium heat until mixture reduces by one-fourth. Add
  salt and pepper to taste. Toss with pasta to coat well. Serve with
  extra nutmeg, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linguine with Mushroom and Garlic Cream Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      8 oz Mushrooms, sliced
      3 md Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 ts Dried rosemary, crumbled
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
           Salt
      4 oz Dried linguine
      2 oz Bel Paese cheese, cut
           Into small cubes
           Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Melt butter in heavy large skillet over medium-low heat.  Add
  mushrooms, garlic, rosemary and generous amount of pepper.  Cook
  until mushrooms exude their juices, stirring occasionally, about 5
  minutes. Add cream and simmer until sauce thickens slightly, about 3
  minutes. Season with salt. Meanwhile, cook pasta in large pot of
  boiling salted water.  Drain well. Add pasta and cheese to sauce and
  stir until cheese melts.  Sprinkle with parsley and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Sauce for Fettuccine Alfredo
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Salt and WHITE pepper
           To taste
    1/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
  Melt butter in a large skillet.  When butter foams, add cream. Simmer
  over medium heat about 2 minutes until slightly thickened. Season
  with salt and white pepper
  
  When your fettuccine has been cooked, drain noodles and place in the
  skillet with the cream.  Add 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese.  Toss noodles
  and sauce over medium heat until sauce coats noodles, 20 to 30
  seconds. Serve immediately with additional Parmesan cheese. Makes 4
  to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yellow and Red Bell Peppers Filled with Tuna And Capers
 Categories: Italian, Fish, Appetizer
      Yield: 16 servings
 
     10    Yellow bell peppers, cut
           Lengthwise into thirds
     10    Red bell peppers, cut
           Lengthwise into thirds
      1 c  Plus
      2 tb Olive oil
      5 tb Fresh lemon juice
      5    Garlic cloves, pressed
           Salt and freshly
           Ground pepper
      3 cn Albacore tuna packed in
           Water, drained
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      5 tb Drained capers
           Fresh parsley sprigs
           Imported black olives
           (such as Kalamata or
           Nicoise)
 
  Arrange pepper skin side up in broiler pan (in batches if necessary)
  and broil until blackened.  Wrap in paper bag and let stand 10
  minutes to steam.  Peel and pat dry.
  
  Mix olive oil, lemon juice and garlic in large bowl.  Season with
  salt and pepper.  Add peppers and marinate at least 30 minutes. (Can
  be prepared 1 day ahead.  Cover and refrigerate.  Bring to room
  temperature before continuing.)
  
  Drain peppers, reserving marinade.  Combine tuna, chopped parsley and
  capers in another bowl, breaking up tuna with a fork.  Mix in enough
  reserved marinade to season to taste.  Season with salt and pepper.
  Place 1 tablespoon tuna mixture on inside of each piece of pepper at
  one end. Roll up.  Arrange seam side down on serving platter.  Pour
  remaining marinade over rolls.  (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead.
  Cover and refrigerate.) Garnish with parsley sprigs and olives before
  serving. 16 appetizer servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Chicken Piccata
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Boneless chicken
           Breast halves, skinned
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Vermouth
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Capers, drained, rinsed
           Lemon slices
 
  Pat chicken dry.  Season with salt and pepper.  Melt butter with oil
  in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat.  Add chicken and cook
  until springy to touch, 4 minutes per side.  Remove from skillet;
  keep warm.
  
  Increase heat to high.  Stir broth and vermouth into skillet.  Boil
  until reduced by half, scraping up any browned bits.  Remove from
  heat. Mix in lemon juice and capers.  Place chicken on plates and
  pour sauce over. Garnish chicken with lemon slices.  4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Panzarotti (Fried Cheese-Filled Crescents)
 Categories: Italian, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
  2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Plus
      3 tb Butter
           Salt
      1    Egg yolk

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      4 oz Mozzarella
      3 oz Cooked ham
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
           Pinch of nutmeg
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      2    Eggs, beaten
           Oil for frying
 
  Sift the flour into a mound, make a well in the center and add the
  butter, cut into pieces, a pinch of salt and an egg yolk. Mix
  together, kneading and gradually adding sufficient water to obtain a
  smooth elastic dough. Shape into a ball, cover and leave to stand in
  a cool place for at least 1/2 hour. Roll out, folding the dough over
  on to itself a few times, as if making flaky pastry, then roll out
  into a thin sheet.  Cut into circles about 3 inches in diameter.
  Dice the Mozzarella, cut the ham into pieces and place in a bowl with
  the 2 whole eggs, grated Parmesan, pinch of nutmeg and chopped
  parsley. Mix well, then spoon a little into the center of each
  circle. Brush the edges with beaten egg, fold over and press gently.
  Heat plenty of oil in a skillet.  When hot, dip the crescents in
  beaten egg and then fry, a few at a time, until golden brown and
  puffed up. Drain well on paper towles and serve piping hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread Salad with Tomatoes and Basil
 Categories: Italian, Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Loaf (1 pound) Italian
           Bread, cut into 1-inch
           Thick slices
      2 lg Tomatoes, cut into med dice
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Minced basil
           Salt and ground black
           Pepper
 
  Dip each slice of bread into a large bowl of cold water, then
  transfer to a colander set aside in the sink; let drain for 15
  minutes. Gently squeeze each slice of bread to remove excess water,
  then cut the slices into medium dice.
  
  Transfer bread cubes to a large nonreactive bowl.  Add the remaining
  ingredients including 1 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper; toss
  the ingredients to combine.  Cover and chill for 1 hour. Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Cacciatore #2
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken, quartered
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black Pepper
    1/4 c  Butter or Olive oil
           (can be mixed )
      1 md Onion, sliced
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, fresh sliced
      1    Clove Garlic, minced
     12    Olives, ripe whole
      4 oz Tomato puree OR
      1 c  Canned
    1/2 c  Claret wine or sherry
 
  Dust chicken parts with flour which has been well mixed with salt and
  peppe. Saute in butter(or olive oil) until golden brown. Add remaining
  ingredients, cover, and simmer over low heat for 20-30 mins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Zucchini Andalouse (Zucchini Ham Beef)
 Categories: Italian, Beef, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Zucchini, small
      2 tb Onion chopped
      3 tb Mushrooms chopped
      3 tb Green Pepper chopped
    1/3 c  Tomato chopped
    1/4 c  Ham cooked chopped
    1/2 ts Garlic minced
    1/2 c  Beef cooked chopped
  1 1/3 c  Bread crumbs soft
           Lightly piled
    1/2    Clove   Garlic chopped
      2 tb Broth if needed
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper
 
  Cook zucchini in salted water 5 mins; cut in half length-wise remove
  pulp. Combine pulp with remaining ingredients; pile this into
  zucchini and bake in moderate oven (350 degF) 30 mins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brothers' Scampi
 Categories: Italian, Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb De-tailed, butterfly
           Shrimp
      1    Stick margarine
      1 tb Olive oil
      4    Cloves minced garlic
  1 1/2 tb Flour
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
      1    Juiced lemon
    1/4 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
           Flakes parsley
 
  Remove shells & tails from shrimp. Butterfly them. In pan, heat up
  margarine & oil & garlic until bobbly. Add shrimp & fry for a short
  while. Meanwhile, combine flour and 3/4 cup chicken broth in gravy
  shaker. When shrimp are ready, add flour/broth to pan. The gradually
  add the remaining chicken broth, lemon juice (use 2 1/2 Tbsp juice if
  not using a real lemon), and wine. Sprinkle with parsley flakes
  before serving over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scaloppine Di Vitello All'agro
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Veal scaloppine
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Olive oil
           Juice of 2 lemons
      3 tb Chopped parsley
      2    Garlic cloves - chopped
      2 tb Capers
 
   Place scaloppine between 2 pieces of waxed paper and pound until
  thin. When pounding meat do not use a straight up-and-down movement.
  Use a sliding action so meat is stretched more than flattened (I use
  the edge of a saucer for this).  Coat meat lightly with flour.
  Sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Melt 3 tablespoons butter with oil in
  a large heavy skillet. When butter foams, add veal.  Cook over high
  heat about 1 minute on each side. Veal should be light golden outside
  and pink inside.
   Place veal on a warm platter.  Add 1 tablespoon butter and lemon
  juice to skillet.  Deglaze skillet by stirring to disolve meat juices
  attached to bottom of skillet.  Stir in parsley, garlic and capers.
  Taste and adjust sauce for seasoning, then spoon over veal. Serve
  immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Florentine Chicken (Pollo Alla Fiorentina)
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Frying chicken (2-1/2 lb)
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper to taste
      1 tb Parsley - chopped
    1/2 c  Olive oil
           Juice of 1 lemon
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2    Eggs
           Oil for frying
 
   Cut chicken into 14 to 16 small pieces or ask butcher to do so.
   Wash and dry pieces thoroughly.  Place chicken pieces in a large
  bowl. Season with salt and pepper and sprinkle with parsley.
   Add oil and lemon juice; mix well.  Let stand 2 to 3 hours.  Beat
  eggs with salt and pepper in a medium bowl.  Remove chicken from
  marinade and pat dry with paper towels.  Coat chicken lightly with
  flour. Dip into beaten eggs; let excess egg drip off.  Pour oil 2
  inches deep in a large saucepan of deep-fryer.  Heat oil to 375F, or
  until a 1-inch cube of bread turns golden brown after 1 minute. Fry
  chicken pieces 10 to 12 minutes or until golden on all sides. Drain
  on paper towels. Place chicken pieces on a warm platter, sprinkle
  lightly with salt.  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Zabaglione (Zabaglione Caldo)
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Dry Marsala wine,
           Sherry or port
 
   In a large bowl or the top part of a double boiler, beat egg yolks
  and sugar until pale and thick.  Set bowl or top part of double
  boiler over simmering water, do not let water boil.  Add Marsala,
  sherry or port slowly, beating constantly.  Zabaglione is ready when
  mixture has tripled in volume and it is soft and fluffy, after 4 to 6
  minutes. Spoon into individual glasses.
   Serve immediately.
  
   Cold Zabaglione (Zabaglione Freddo):
  
   As soon as Zabaglione swells up into a soft mass, set bowl or top
  part of double boiler over a bowl of ice water.  Continue stirring
  until cool. Spoon into glasses and refrigerate until ready to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-Dried Tomato & Basil Pasta Sauce/dressing
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10    Basil leaves, fresh, large
      2    Garlic clove, large
      4    Sun-dried tomatoes,
           Large, oil-packed
      6 tb Olive oil
    1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar, OR
           Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes, dried
 
  Insert steel knife in food processor. Place basil in work bowl. With
  machine running, drop garlic through feed tube and mince. Scrape down
  sides of bowl. Add drained sun-dried tomatoes and process until
  finely chopped, scraping down bowl as needed. Add olive oil, vinegar,
  salt, sugar and red pepper flakes. Process until tomatoes are pureed,
  about 1 1/2 minutes. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead. Transfer to
  small bowl. Cover and let stand at room temperature. Re-whisk before
  using if necessary.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant in a Carriage (Melanzane In Carrozza)
 Categories: Italian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      2    Long, narrow eggplants
           (about 1 lb. each), sliced
           Crosswise 1/4-inch thick
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
      6 oz Fresh mozzarella cheese,
           Sliced 1/8-inch thick
      1 cn (2 oz.) anchovy fillets
    1/4 c  Fresh basil leaves plus
           Several sprigs for garnish
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      3 c  Fresh Italian bread crumbs
           Marinara Sauce as
           Accompaniment (optional)
 
  1.  Layer the eggplant slices in a colander, sprinkling each layer
  with the salt.  Set aside to drain for at least 1 hour.  Pat the
  eggplant dry with paper towels. 2. Preheat the oven to 375F. Using
  1/4 c. of the olive oil, brush both sides of each eggplant slice.
  Arrange the slices in a single layer on 2 large baking sheets.  Bake
  for 15 to 20 minutes, turning once, until the eggplant is tender when
  pierced with a fork but still holds its shape. 3. Remove from the
  oven; season with eggplant with the pepper. Cover half the eggplant
  with mozzarella.  Finely chop the anchovies and basil together;
  sprinkle over the cheese.  Cover with the remaining eggplant slices
  to form sandwiches. 4. In a medium bowl, beat the eggs with 2
  teaspoons of water and 2 teaspoons of the olive oil. Coat the
  eggplant sandwiches with the flour, dusting off any excess. Dip into
  the beaten egg, then coat the sandwiches thoroughly with the bread
  crumbs, pressing gently to adhere. 5. In a large heavy skillet, heat
  the remaining oil over moderately high heat to 375F or until a small
  bread cube browns in about 1 minute.
   Fry the eggplant sandwiches in small batches until golden, 1 to 2
  minutes per side.  Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper
  towels. Arrange the sandwiches on a platter or plates and serve on
  their own or with Marinara Sauce, garnished with sprigs of fresh
  basil.
   (The eggplant sanndwiches can be assembled and fried early in the
  day.
   Set aside on a cookie sheet at room temperature and reheat in a 400F
  oven for about 5 minutes just before serving.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Little Corner Restaurant Cake - Dolce Del Cantoncino
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Unsalted butter
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 oz Semisweet chocolate, chopped
    1/4 c  Rum
  1 1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
      9    Blanched almonds

MMMMM------------------------SPONGE CAKE-----------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
      6    Eggs, room temperature
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  All-purpose flour

MMMMM-----------------------CUSTARD CREAM----------------------------
      3 c  Milk
      8    Egg yolks, room temperature
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour

MMMMM---------------------COFFEE ZABAGLIONE--------------------------
      5    Egg yolks, room temperature
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Espresso coffe, room temp.
 
  A rich, luscious dessert from the famous Il Cantoncino Restaurante in
  Bologona.
  
  Prepare Sponge Cake.  Prepare Custard Cream.  Prepare Coffee
  Zabaglione. Cream butter in a large bowl until pale and fluffy.
  Gradually add cooled zabaglione to butter, beating vigorously after
  each addition.  Refrigerate mixture 2 to 3 minutes to stiffen
  slightly.  Whip cream and refrigerate. Preheat oven to 200F (95C).
  Put chocolate into a small ovenproof bowl and place in oven until
  chocolate has melted, 4 to 5 minutes.  Cut cake into 2 layers.
  Sprinkle rum over 2 cut surfaces of cake.  Spread 1 layer with
  Custard Cream.  Top with second layer.  Spread zabaglione mixture
  evenly over top of cake.  Hold cake in 1 hand and spread zabaglione
  mixture around sides of cake.  Gently press walnuts onto sides of
  cake.  Put whipped cream into a pastry bag fitted with a medium star
  tube.  Pipe a cream border around edge of cake.  Decorate center of
  cake with 9 cream rosettes. Dip almonds into melted chocolate and
  place on top of rosettes. Refrigerate cake until serving.  Cake can
  be prepared up to 24 hours ahead. Let cake stand 30 minutes at room
  temperature before serving. Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  
  SPONGE CAKE: Preheat oven to 350F (175C). Butter and flour a 10-inch
  cake pan with a removable bottom; shake off excess flour. Melt butter
  in a small saucepan; cool slightly.  Put eggs, sugar and vanilla in a
  large bowl. Set bowl in a larger one containing hot water or use a
  double boiler off the heat.  Beat at high speed 10 to 12 minutes or
  until mixture is pale and thick and has tripled in volume.  Sift
  flour over batter in several batches, gently folding in with a
  spatula after each addition.  Gradually add cooled butter, folding
  gently until well blended.  Pour batter into prepared pan.  Cook 20
  to 25 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in center of cake comes
  out dry.  Cool cake in pan 20 to 30 minutes, then transfer to a rack.
  Cake can be prepared 1 or 2 days ahead, covered with plastic wrap and
  stored at room temperature.
  
  CUSTARD CREAM: In a medium saucepan, bring milk just to a boil. Put
  egg yolks, sugar and vanilla into a medium bowl. Beat 2 to 3 minutes
  until mixture is pale and thick. Gradually beat in flour. Very slowly
  stir half the hot milk into yolk mixture. Pour mixture into pan
  containing remaining hot milk.  Whisk over medium heat 2 to 3 minutes
  or until custard has a medium-thick consistency. Do not let mixture
  boil. Place custard in bowl. Cover and refrigerate.
  
  COFFEE ZABAGLIONE: In a large bowl or the top part of a double
  boiler, beat egg yolk and sugar until pale and thick. Set bowl or top
  part of double boiler over simmering water; do not let water boil.
  Gradually add coffee, beating constantly. Continue beating until
  zabaglione has doubled in volume and is soft and fluffy, 4 to 6
  minutes. Remove from heat and set pan or bowl over a bowl full of ice
  water. Stir with a whisk until mixture has cooled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Calzone with Sun-Dried Tomatoes
 Categories: Italian, Pizza, Sausage, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Deep-Dish Pizza Dough
      1 tb Oil from sun-dried tomatoes
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      1    Clove garlic, minced
           Or pressed
      1 c  (8 oz) ricotta cheese
    1/4 c  Chopped sun-dried tomatoes
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 lb Sliced prosciutto or dry
           Salami, cut into strips
      2 c  (1/2 lb) shredded whole-
           Milk mozzarella cheese
           Cornmeal (for baking sheet)
           Olive oil
 
  1. Prepare Deep-Dish Pizza Dough and let it rise.
  
  2. While dough rises, prepare filling. In a medium frying pan heat
  tomato oil over moderate heat; add onion and cook, stirring often,
  until soft but not browned. Mix in garlic, then remove from heat.
  
  3. In a medium bowl mix ricotta cheese with dried tomatoes and
  parsley; stir in cooked onion mixture.
  
  4. Divide dough into two equal portions. Roll each half out on a
  floured suface to a 12-inch circle. Spread half of the ricotta
  filling over half of each circle of dough, leaving about a 1/2-inch
  margin.
  
  5. Sprinkle half of each circle with half of the prosciutto strips
  and 1 cup of the mozarella cheese. Fold circles in halves over
  filling, moistening and pinching edges together (or pressing with
  tines of a fork) to seal.
  
  6. Preheat oven to 450~ F. Sprinkle a large, greased baking sheet
  lightly with cornmeal. Place calzone well apart on prepared baking
  sheet. Let rise until puffy (12 to 15 minutes). Brush tops lightly
  with olive oil, then serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aioli
 Categories: Salad, Dressing, Italian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    White bread, thin slice
      3 tb Milk
      4    Clove garlic, medium,
           Minced
      2    Egg yolk, large
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Olive oil
           Salt
           Pepper, white
           VARIATION: Rouille
      1    Red bell pepper
           VARIATION: Skordalia
    1/2 c  Almonds, blanched,
           Finely ground
 
  Remove crust from bread- preferrably Italian white bread.  In a small
  bowl, combine bread and milk.  Let soak 5 minutes.  Squeeze the bread
  with your hands to get rid of any excess liquid.  Place bread,
  garlic, egg yolks, and lemon juice in blender or food processor
  fitted with a steel blade. Process 10 seconds, or until completely
  smooth.  With machine running, slowly drizzle in oil until thickened.
  Season with salt and pepper to taste.
  
  VARIATION: Rouille Add 1 peeled, seeded, roasted red pepper to Aioli
  recipe.  Combine in blender or food processor with bread, garlic, egg
  yolks, and lemon juice. Follow the rest of the Aioli recipe.
  
  VARIATION: Skordalia Add 1/2 cup finely ground blanched almonds and 2
  tbsp chopped parsley to one Aioli recipe.
  
  At a true Provencal feast, Aioli is served with mounds of boiled
  vegetables ~ leeks, cauliflower, green beans - boiled eggs, poached
  flaky salt-cod, and crusty French bread.  Or the dip may accompany
  sea snails or bourride - a Provencal fish stew.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Marengo
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Quartered broiler-fryers
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Olive or salad oil
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
    1/2 ts Dried basil leaves
      4    Ripe tomatoes (2 lb)
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Flour
    1/8 ts Pepper
      4 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      3 tb Tomato paste
      2    Tabasco drops
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      2    Chicken livers, washed
      2    Mushrooms, finely chopped
      8    White toast slices
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onions
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
           Chppped parsley
 
  1. Wash chicken under cold water; dry well on paper towels. On sheet
  of waxed paper, combine flour, salt and pepper; mix well. Roll
  chicken pieces in flour mixture, coating evenly. In a 5-quart Dutch
  oven, slowly heat the olive oil and 2 tablespoons butter.
  2. Add chicken pieces to hot fat in a single layer; saute on all
  sides, turning with tongs, until nicely browned - 10 minutes. Remove
  chicken as it browns. Brown rest of chicken; remove and set aside.
  Add the garlic, thyme, basil and parsley to Dutch oven.
  3. Saute herbs, stirring, over medium heat 5 minutes. If using fresh
  tomatoes, scald in boiling water; peel skins. Cut tomatoes in
  quarters; add to Dutch oven. (if using canned tomatoes, add with
  liquid.) Add tomato paste, sugar, Tobasco and 3/4 cup of the wine.
  4. Stir to mix well. Place chicken in sauce. Bring to boiling; reduce
  heat; simmer, covered, 40 minutes. Meanwhile, wash mushrooms; slice
  through stem, 1/4 inch thick. In 2 tablespoons remaining butter in
  small skillet, saute mushrooms about 5 minutes, stirring.
  5. Add sliced mushrooms to chicken; cook, covered, 10 minutes longer.
  About 10 minutes before serving, drain chicken livers on paper
  towels; halve. Saute livers, chopped onion and chopped mushrooms in 2
  tablespoons hot butter, stirring, about 5 minutes.
  6. Mash with fork; add 1 tablespoon soft butter; mix well. Cut toast
  with heart-sharp cutter; spread with remaining butter, then with
  liver mixture. Stir 1/4 cup wine into sauce. Arrange chicken, with
  sauce and toast, on a platter.  Sprinkle with parsley
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Artichokes
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      3 lg Artichokes
      5 oz Parmesan cheese, grated
      1 lg Clove of garlic, minced
      1 c  Italian bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Olive oil (this needs to
           Be olive oil, NO
           Substitute)
           Lemon juice
 
  Cut the stems and the tops (Just low enough to remove the pointy ends
  of the leaves) off of the artichokes. Mix cheese, garlic,and crumbs.
  Spread the artichoke leaves so you can fill each layer, from the
  outside in, with the crumb mixture.
  
  Place the artichokes in a pot with about 1-2 inches of water.  Drizzle
  olive oil and lemon juice over the top of each artichoke. Cover and
  steam 45 minutes or longer, checking occasionally that the water has
  not completely evaporated. The artichokes are done when a leaf can be
  easily pulled off.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bow Ties with Sausage, Tomatoes and Cream
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 lb Sweet Italian sausage,
           Casings removed, crumbled
    1/2 ts Dried red pepper flakes
    1/2 c  Diced onions
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
      1    28-oz. can Italian plum
           Tomatoes, drained,
           Coarsely chopped
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 ts Salt
     12 oz Bow tie pasta
      3 tb Minced fresh parsley
           Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Heat oil in heavy large skillet over medium heat.  Add sausage and
  pepper flakes.  Cook until sausage is no longer pink, stirring
  frequently, about 7 minutes.  Add onion and garlic to skillet and
  cook until onion is tender and sausage is light brown, stirring
  occasionally, about 7 minutes. Add tomatoes, cream and salt. Simmer
  until mixture thickens slightly, about 4 minutes. Cook pasta in large
  pot of boiling salted water until just tender but still firm to bite,
  stirring occasionally to prevent sticking. Drain.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melanzane Sott'olio D'oliva (Marinated Eggplant in Olive 
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Eggplants (about 3 1/2 lbs)
    1/2 c  Salt
      1 qt White vinegar
      1 c  Extra virgin olive oil
      3 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Chopped garlic
      1 ts Crushed red pepper
      1 tb Dried oregano OR
  2 1/2    Fresh oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  1. Slice the skins off the eggplants, and slice them about 1/4 inch
  thick from top to bottom. Then slice across to get pieces the size of
  French fries. Put the eggplant strips in a bowl and toss with the 1/2
  cup of salt. 2. Move the eggplant strips into a colander, arraying
  them in a relatively uniform layer up the sides. Put a bowl the same
  size as the colander inside the colander and weigh it down with three
  or so pounds of weight. [I find a foil covered common solid brick is
  a handy kitchen tool] Put the entire apparatus in the sink to drain
  for 45 minutes. This will remove any bitterness from the eggplant. 3.
  Rinse the salt off the eggplant with cold water. Drain it well, then
  SQUEEZE it dry. Put the eggplant in a bowl with the vinegar, and
  marinate it for 30 minutes. [It will return to shape like a wet
  sponge] 4. Drain the vinegar from the eggplant and squeeze it dry
  again. Put the eggplant into a bowl with all the other ingredients.
  5. Pour the contents into a canning jar. Make SURE therre is enough
  olive oil to completely cover all the eggplant about 1/2 inch deep.
  Tightly seal and refrigerate the jar. Marinate for at least a week;
  the ideal time is actually three months, and the eggplant will keep
  getting better even after that.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Bean and Red Onion Salad
 Categories: Italian, Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Green beans
      1 sm Red onion, very
           Thinly sliced
    1/3 c  Finely minced parsley
      2 tb Minced fresh mint
    1/3 c  Coarsely shredded Parmesan
      3 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black
           Pepper
      1 ts White wine vinegar.
 
  1.  Bring a large pan of water to the boil.  Trim the green beans,
    cut in halves or thirds if long.  Put the beans into the boiling
    water and time about five minutes, or until tender.  Drain and rinse
    with cold water until completely chilled.  Pat dry with paper
    towels.
  
  2.  Soak the red onion in cold water 5 minutes to reduce the acidity.
    Drain and pat dry.  Combine with the green beans, the parsley,
    mint, Parmesan, olive oil, salt and pepper.  Mix well.  The salad
    can be refrigerated at this point.
  
  3.  Serve the salad at room temperature.  Just before serving, stir in
    the vinegar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bagna Caudi (On Ziti with Carrots)
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Olive oil
     15    Cloves garlic, chopped fine
      4 oz Anchovies, chopped
      1 qt Heavy cream
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      2 tb Roast Garlic mashed
    1/2 lb Ziti, cooked
    1/4 c  Matchstick-sliced carrots,
           Par-boiled
 
  The Sauce: Saute the chopped garlic in butter and oil until lightly
  browned. Add the chopped anchovies. Cook until the anchovies are
  dissolved. Add the cream, mustard and roast garlic. Reduce by
  one-fourth. Final assembly: Heat the sauce, then add the cooked ziti
  and carrots. Toss until thoroughly coated and serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tripe Florentine
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Tripe
      4 tb Peanut oil
      2    Carrots, grated
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
      1    Yellow onion, peeled &
           Chopped
    1/2 c  Parsley, chopped
      3    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1    (8-oz) tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Beef stock
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      1 ts Oregano
      1    Bay leaf, crushed
    1/2 ts Basil
           Salt & pepper to taste
      2    1" pieces lemon peel
    1/2 c  Parmesan or Romano
           Cheese, freshly grated
 
  Parboil tripe for about 30 minutes.  Drain & cool.  Slice up tripe
  into 1/2" wide pieces.  Saute very quickly in a little of the oil in
  a large frying pan.
  
  Saute in a little of the oil the carrots, celery, onion, parsley &
  garlic. Add the tomato sauce, beef stock and wine.  Add the
  seasonings and lemon peel.  Simmer the sauce for a few minutes, and
  then add the tripe. Cook it on top of the stove, covered, for 1-1/2
  hours or until tender. Or bake it in a moderate oven. When ready to
  serve, sprinkle on the Parmesan or Romano. Serve with pasta.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage with Friggione
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Sweet Italian sausage
      2 c  Of water

MMMMM-------------------------FRIGGIONE------------------------------
      5 tb Olive oil
      4    Potatoes, peeled,
           Cut into small pieces
      2 lg Onions, thinly sliced
      2    Red or green sweet
           Peppers, seeded, cut
           Into strips
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper to taste
      2 c  Canned crushed
           Italian-style or whole
           Tomatoes
 
   Pierce sausages in several places with a fork. Put sausages in water
  in a large skillet.
   Bring water to a boil.  Cook 10 to 15 minutes over medium heat,
  turning sausages during the cooking.  By the end of the cooking time
  water should have evaporated leaving sausages and some of their fat
  in skillet. Brown sausages on all sides.
   Add Friggione to skillet.  Cook Friggione and sausages 5 to 8 minutes
  longer.  Serve immediately.  Makes 4 to 6 servings.
   *FRIGGIONE* Heat oil in a large skillet. Add potatoes, onions and
  peppers.
   Season with salt and pepper.  Cook uncovered over low heat 30
  minutes, stirring several times.  Press tomatoes through a food mill
  or a sieve to remove seeds.  Add tomato pulp to skillet.
   Cook uncovered over medium heat 25 to 30 minutes or until mixture
  reduces to a medium-thick consistency.  Add salt and pepper to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Pasta with Sausage
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Vermicelli
     12 oz Hot Italian sausage,
           Removed from casing
      2 md Onions, sliced
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      2    Red or green bell peppers,
           Seeded, cut in 1" cubes
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil, OR
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1 tb Dried basil
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      4    Plum tomatoes, chopped
  1 1/3 c  Marinara Sauce
      2 tb Olive oil

MMMMM-----------------------MARINARA SAUCE----------------------------
      1 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
     16 oz Canned tomatoes, chopped
      2 tb Dry red wine
      1 tb Tomato paste
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Dried basil
    1/8 ts Pepper
           Dash of dried oregano
 
   Preparation: Cook vermicelli according to package directions. Drain.
  In 10" skillet, over medium-high heat, cook sausage 5 minutes stirring
  frequently to break up. Add onions and cook until onions are softened.
   Stir in garlic, bell peppers, basil and pepper. Cook until sausage
  is no longer pink and vegetables are tender. Stir in tomatoes and
  Marinara Sauce. Remove from heat. Wipe out skillet. In same skillet,
  over high heat, heat oil. Add vermicelli, cook two minutes. Reduce
  heat to medium and cook until edges are browned and crisp, about 5
  minutes. With pancake turner, loosen from skillet. Invert vermicelli
  onto serving plate. Spoon sausage mixture over vermicelli. MARINARA
  SAUCE Preparation: In 1 qt. saucepan heat oil over medium heat. Add
  onion and cook, stirring often, until soft. Stir in remaining
  ingredients. Simmer, stirring occasionally, 25 minutes until thick.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Chocolate Terrine
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      8 oz German sweet chocolate
    1/3 c  Water
      8 oz Pkg cream cheese, softened
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanila
     12 oz Pkg whipped topping,
           Thawed (about 4-3/4 c)
      1 tb Milk
      2 tb Almond liqueur
 
   Lightly grease 8x4" loaf pan; line bottom and sides with waxed
  paper. Melt chocolate with water in saucepan over low heat, stirring
  constantly. Cool slightly. Beat cream cheese and sugar until smooth.
  Beat in vanilla and chocolate mixture.  Fold in 3 C of the La Creme.
  Stir in milk. Spread into lined pan.  Chill until firm, about 4 hours.
     Unmold and remove waxed paper.  Add liqueur to remaining La Creme.
   Cut terrine into slices and serve with topping mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Pepperoni
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Pasta noodles
    1/2    Stick pepperoni
    1/3 c  Flour
      1 lb Boneless chicken breast
      2 cn (8oz) tomato sauce
           Fresh pepper
           Oregano
           Basil
           Tarragon
           Garlic powder
           Onion powder
 
  Dice pepperoni into 1/4" cubes. Cook in frying pan over medium heat
  until mostly degreased. Remove from pan and set aside. Cut chicken
  into bite-sized pieces. Season flour and toss chicken pieces until
  coated. Brown in pepperoni fat (and olive oil, if needed). Set aside.
  Stir tomoto sauce and remaining flour together in pan. Stir in
  chicken and pepperoni. Add 1/3-1/2 cup water to cover meat. Allow to
  simmer 30-45 minutes or until chicken is tender. Serve over a bed of
  pasta.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Medallions of Pork with Red-Wine Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Slices boneless loin of
           Pork, 3 oz each,
           Trimmed of fat
      1    Whole clove
    1/2 c  Red wine
      1 ts Balsamic vinegar
      2 ts Honey
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Freshly grated ginger
    1/2 ts Dried thyme OR
      2    Sprigs of fresh
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Place pork slices on a flat surface.  Pound lightly with a mallet.
  Sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Combine ginger, thyme, vinegar, bay
  leaf, clove, wine, and honey in a bowl and blend well.  Place sliced
  pork in a dish and pour mixture over it.  Marinate for 10 minutes.
  Drain the pork medallions and pat dry.  Reserve marinate. Place meat
  in a single layer in skillet in the hot oil.. Cook for 5 minutes,
  turn and cook for 5 minutes more over medium high heat.  Reduce heat
  and cook meat for 2 minutes more. Transfer meat to a dish and keep
  warm.  In skillet add the shallots and cook stirring until wilted.
  Add the reserved marinate and cook, stirring and scraping the botton.
  Cook until marinate is reduced to 3/4 its original amount.  Swirl in
  the butter and pour the sauce over the medallions. Remove bay leaf
  and sprigs of thyme before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Cacciatore
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Italian Sausage
           (hot/sweet/both)
      1 lb Green bell peppers
    3/4 lb Spanish onions
      3 cl Garlic
    1/2 lb Canned mushrooms
      3 c  Italian tomatoe sauce
 
     Fry sausage until 3/4 cooked ( about 15min ). Remove. Cut and core
  peppers and slice into strips. Peel and slice onions into strips. Fry
  pepper strips in sausage grease add oil if not enough grease. Fry
  about 5 min and onions and continue frying chop garlic and add
  mushrooms and fry about 5 mins. Add sausage and sauce and simmer on
  low until meat is hot about 10 min. I usually serve this as a "hot"
  dish in a hot and cold buffet. It can serve as a main dish with a
  side of pasta or rice. Also makes a great hot sandwich on Italian
  bread.or great pocket sandwich on syrian (pita) bread. It also makes
  great table art when you drop it on a white tablecloth (smile). Its a
  very versitle dish can substitute with any kind of meat.Enjoy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coq Au Vin (Burgundy Chicken)
 Categories: French, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Flour
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper to taste
    1/2 ts Paprika
      3 lb Chicken, cut into joints
    1/2 c  Butter
      4 oz Shallots
      6    Slices bacon, roughly
           Chopped
      2 cl Garlic, crushed
    1/2 ts Dried marjoram
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Fresh parsley, finely
           Chopped
  1 1/4 c  Dry red wine (like
           Burgundy)
  1 1/4 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Buttom mushrooms
    1/3 c  Brandy
 
  Combine the flour, salt, pepper and paprika and coat the chicken
  joints well, shaking off the excess.  Reserve this excess flour.
  
  Melt 1/4 c of the butter in a flameproof casserole over a gentle heat.
   Add the chicken joints and fry lightly for 5 minutes on eaach side.
   Add shallots, bacon and garlic.  Continue to fry gently for 5
  minutes, stirring occasionally, until the shallots have softened but
  not browned.
  
  Sprinkle in the herbs and stir in the wine and stock.  Bring to the
  boil. Cover ;and cook in a moderate oven, 350F, for 50 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, melt 2 T of the remaining butter and gently fry the
  mushrooms for 2 minutes. Pour over the brandy and ignite. Rotate the
  pan until the flames die down. Remove the casserole from the oven and
  add the mushrooms and liquor. Cover and cook for another 10 minutes.
  
  Melt the remainaing 2 T of butter in a saucepan over gentle heat and
  stire in the reserved flour.  Cook the roux for 1 minute.  Strain
  1-1/4 c of the liquid from the casserole into the roux.  Bring to the
  boil, stirring constantly.  Simmer for 2 minutes then pour into the
  casserole.
   Return to the oven and cook for a further 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Francesa
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lg Boneless chicken breasts
           (halved)
      1 c  Milk enough to soak chicken
      1 c  Breadcrumbs
      1 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 c  Olive oil
      1 c  Chicken broth
           Grand Marnier Liqueur
           Salt
           Pepper
      1    Lemon
      1 c  White wine
           Butter
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Remove the tenderloin from each half chicken breast and save. Fillet
  each half chicken breast into two slices to yield 12 pieces. Use flat
  of meat pounder and lightly pound each piece,inculding tenderloins.
  Soak all the chicken in milk about 10 mins. Mix breadcrumbs,parmesan
  cheese,chopped parsley and dredge each slice of chicken in the
  mixture making sure each slice is well covered. Add oil to a large
  skillet and quickly braise breasts on each side untill lightly
  browned. Do not over cook. Place one slice of lemon on top of each
  breast and place in a lightly buttered baking dish. Remove all but 1
  tbsp. of oil from skillet leaving residue from chicken. Add white
  wine and boil untill liquid is reduced by half. Add lemon juice and
  chicken broth and boil till reduced by half then pour over chicken
  breasts. Next drizzle Grand Marnier over each slice of chicken breast
  according to taste. Bake at 350 F untill liquid begins to bubble
  between 20-25 mins and your finished. Serve with buttered noodles and
  any green vegetable.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettuccine Alfredo (Prince)
 Categories: Pasta, Salsa/sauce, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 oz Fettuccine
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Cream, heavy or light
  1 1/2 c  Parmesan, grated
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper, white, dash
           Romano cheese to taste
 
  We add a little romano to this for extra flavor- not in the original
  recipe- about 1 or 2 tablespoons.
  
  Cook fettuccine according to package directions.  While fettuccine
  cooks, heat butter or margarine and cream in a small sauce pan until
  butter melts. Stir in parmesan cheese., salt and pepper.  Keep warm
  over low heat. Drain fettuccine, return to pan, pour sauce over
  noodles, toss gently until noodles are well coated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Delicate Homemade Pasta
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Flour, whole wheat pastry
      1 c  Flour, unbleached
      1 ts Salt
      2    Eggs, large
      2 ts Olive oil
      2 tb Water, more as necessary
 
  Sift together the flours and salt and pour out on a clean, dry board.
  Shape into a mound, then make a well in the center with the "walls"
  of the flour even all around.  Crack the eggs into the well and add
  the oil. Using a fork, mix the flour together with the egg mixture,
  keeping the "well" intact by cupping one hand around the wall of
  flour while you brush flour from the top of the wall into the well,
  incor-porating it into the egg mixture.  The mixture of eggs and
  flour will get very sticky; keep incorporating flour with the fork
  while you con-tinue to confine the flour with your other hand so it
  doesn't scatter itself all over the working surface.  (You won't be
  able to get all the flour incorporated, and some flakes of the
  mixture won't be absorbed, but don't be concerned with this small
  amount---you'll have plenty of pasta.)
  
  When you have incorporated all the flour you can into the egg mixture,
  sprinkle with the water.  This may make the mixture sticky. Sprinkle
  with a little more flour---just a little---so you can handle the
  dough, and mix the dough vigorously with your hands.  When the dough
  is smooth and elastic, knead it for 5 minutes.  Shape the dough into
  a ball, wrap it in a damp towel, and let rest for 30 minutes to an
  hour.
  
  Divide the dough into eight. Roll out as thin as possible---start at
  the thickest setting your machine allows, and run each piece through
  many times, each time setting the machine one notch thinner.  The
  dough will shrink back a little, so roll it thinner than you want it.
  Run through the cutters, or cut with a knife into the desired shapes,
  and place on waxed paper until ready to cook.  If storing, allow to
  dry and wrap in plastic. Keep in a cool, dry place.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Parmesan with Prosciutto
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Veal, thin sliced, pounded
           Thin (1/8" thick)
      1    Shallot (minced)
      1 cl Garlic (minced)
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Prosciutto (chopped-up
           Into 1-inch long strips)
      3 tb Olive oil
           Fresh grated parmesan cheese
           Flour
           White pepper
           Chopped parsley
 
   Sprinkle pepper on both sides of veal and roll in flour. Put oil in
  skillet and heat to medium-high. Add prosciutto and cook for 1
  minute. Add veal and cook for 1 minute on each side. Remove veal and
  set aside.
   Scrape sides of skillet. Add shallot and garlic and saute for 1
  minute. Pour in wine, stir, set heat to high and reduce fluid for 3-5
  minutes. Set heat to medium and add veal to pan for another minute
  without turning.
   Arrange veal on dinner plate with prosciutto on top of each piece.
  Drizzle liquid over veal and sprinkle with parmesan cheese. Add a
  touch of parsley and serve.
   Great with cold-pasta salad, or a simple green salad with vinegar
  and oil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Lasagna
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    UNCOOKED lasagna noodles
     32 oz Jar spaghetti sauce (I use
           Prego Green Label) mixed
           With
    1/2 c  Water
      1 lb Ricotta Cheese mixed with
      1    Egg
           Pepper to taste
     12 oz Mozzarella, either
           Shredded or sliced
    1/4 c  Parmesan
 
  layer in this order, in a 9x13 pyrex pan: sauce, 1/2 the noodles, 1/2
  ricotta, 1/2 mozzarella, sauce, noodles, ricotta, mozzarella, sauce.
  
  Cover tightly with Saran wrap.  My microwave is a 650 watt machine,
  with a carousel.  I cook it on HIGH for 8 to 8 1/2 minutes, and
  MEDIUM LOW for 32 mins.  Remove saran, sprinkle w/ Parmesan, recover
  and let stand for 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sorrel-Chive Herb Paste (Pesto)
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sorrel
      4 tb Finely minced shallots
      4 tb Pine nuts, ground
      3 tb Chopped parsley
      3 tb Chopped chives
           Grated peel of 4 oranges
    1/4    Red onion, chopped
      1 tb Dry mustard
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper
           Pinch cayenne
    3/4 c  Olive oil
 
  1.  Wash the sorrel and dry it well, by hand or in a salad spinner.
  Chop
    the sorrel coarsely, and again squeeze away any liquid.
  
  2.  Blend the sorrel, shallots, pine nuts, parsley, chives, orange
  peel
    and onion in a food processor or blender.  (If using a blender, make
    sure these ingredients are already finely chopped.)
  
  3.  Add dry mustard, salt, pepper and cayenne, and mix again.  SLOWLY
    drizzle in the oil while the blade is moving.  Transfer to tempered
    glass jars and store in refrigerator (for up to 8 to 10 weeks) or in
    the freezer for up to a year.
  
  NOTES:  Sorrel's peak season is summer, although you can find hothouse
        sorrel year round in some stores.  You may reduce the amount of
        orange peel by 1/4 or 1/2 if you'd like to emphasize the sorrel
        or other flavors.  Walnuts or almonds may be substituted for
        the pine nuts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thyme-Lemon Zest Herb Paste
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 tb Chopped shallots
           (about 4 shallots)
      3 tb Ground almonds
           (about 24 almonds)
           Grated peel of 4 lemons
      2 tb Fresh thyme (heaping)
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 tb Chopped shives
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
    3/4 c  Olive oil
 
  1.  In a food processor or blender, blend the shallots, almonds, lemon
    peel, thyme, parsley and chives.
  
  2.  Mix in the salt and white pepper.  SLOWLY drizzle in the oil
  while the
    blade is turning.  Transfer to tempered glass jars and store in the
    refrigerator (8-10 weeks) or freezer for a year.
  
  NOTE:  You may wish to include up to 4 T. minced garlic in step 1.
  
  This goes well in tomato-based sauces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Pasta Salad
 Categories: Pasta, Salad, Vegetable, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Spinach spaghetti
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      2 tb Rice wine vinegar
      1 ts Curry powder
      5    Asparagus spears
      2    Med-size zucchini
    1/4 lb Snow peas
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced 1/4" thick
      1 pt Cherry tomatoes, halved
    1/4 c  Minced parsley
    1/4 c  Minced basil
 
  1. Break the spaghetti strands into thirds.  Cook the spaghetti in a
  large quantity of boiling water until tender (about 8 min).  Drain
  and set aside. 2. Whisk together in a small bowl the mayonnaise,
  garlic, vinegar, and curry powder.  Add this to the cooked spaghetti
  and gently mix. 3. Scrape the asparagur and cut each spear on the
  diagonal into 1" pieces. Steam these pieces into a small amount of
  boiling water 5 min.  Drain and stir into the spaghetti. 4. Cut the
  zucchini in half lengthwise. Slice each half crosswise into 1/4"
  pieces. Stir these into the spaghetti. 5. Cut the snow peas on the
  diagonal into 3/4" slices.  Stir these into the spaghetti. 6. Stir in
  the mushrooms and tomatoes. 7. Combine the parsley and basil. Shower
  the salad with the combined herbs but do not toss. 8. Salad can be
  served now or covered and refrigerated.  If chilled, let it return
  nearly to room temperature for best flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Riccota
 Categories: Italian, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 qt Milk
      3 tb Distilled white vinegar OR
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
           Salt (if desired)
 
  Pour the milk into a heavy stainless-steel or enameled saucepan and
  stir in the white vinegar or lemon juice.
  
  Set the pot over very low heat and bring the milk very slowly to a
  simmer (a reading of 200 degrees on a thermometer).  There will be
  fine beads around the edge of the milk, which will look foamy but
  will not appear to be boiling.
  
  Remove the pot from the heat and set it, covered, in a spot where it
  can remain undisturbed and where the temperature will remain fairly
  uniform at a reading between 80 and 100 degrees.  (An unheated oven,
  without a pilot light, is a good spot.)  Let the milk stand for about
  6 hours, or until a solik curd floats above the liquid (the whey).
  More or less time may be required, depending on the temperature of
  the environment and the characteristics of the milk.
  
  Line a fine sieve with doubled, dampened cheesecloth (or, better yet,
  two layers of very fine-mesh nylon curtain netting, dampened) and set
  it over a bowl.  Dip the curds and whey into the sieve and allow the
  whey to drain off until the ricotta is yogurtlike.  If you want
  firmer cheese, tie the corners of the cloth to form a bag and hang it
  up to drain further.  (In warm weather, the draining might well be
  completed in the refrigerator.)
  
  When the texture of the ricotta is to your liking, add a little salt
  (from 1/4 to 1/2 t) if you wish.  Store the cheese, covered, in the
  refrigerator. It will be at its best after it has chilled for 24
  hours, and will keep well for 4 or 5 days.
  
  Author's notes:  Unlike most other fresh cheeses-cottage and cream
  cheese, for example-the curd of this bland, light cheese is fromed
  from the direct addition of acid to the milk, not by fermentation.
  For that reason the time required to make it is generally short.
   If you haven't used this Italian favorite before, try it in place of
  cottage cheese, as well as in Italian recipes for such dishes as
  lasagne and manicotti.  You'll find it is a bit creamier than most
  cottage cheeses, with a much finer curd.
   For a pleasant light milk dessert, sweeten ricotta slightly and top
  it with a sprinkling of grated chocolate or cinnamon.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti Squash
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Spaghetti squash, 1 1/2
           To 2 lbs.
      1 c  Grated Cheddar cheese
      1 c  Grated Mozzarella cheese
  1 1/2 c  Grated zucchini or diced
           Green pepper
      2 c  Tomato sauce
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Salt (or less)
           Dash of pepper
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Cut squash in half lengthwise. Scoop out seeds. Place squash, cut side
  down, in 2" simmering water; cover and cook 15 minutes. (Now call the
  kids to watch!) Holding the hot squash in a potholder, run the tines
  of a fork across its pulp-and like magic, there is your spagetti! Mix
  the strands with the cheeses, zucchini or peppers, sauce, oregano,
  garlic, salt and pepper in a large bowl. Scoop back into squash
  shells, top with Parmesan, and bake at 350 for 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: (Crostini Napoletani) Neapolitan-Style Crostini
 Categories: Italian, Appetizer
      Yield: 16 servings
 
     16    Slices of Italian bread,
           Cut 1/2-inch thick
    1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
    1/3 c  Black or green olivada* OR
    1/3 c  (4 oz.) Calamata olives,
           Pitted or finely chopped
    1/2 lb Fresh mozzarella cheese,
           Cut in 14 1/4-inch slices
    1/2 lb Plum tomatoes, cut
           Lengthwise into 16 1/4-inch
           Slices
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  1.  Preheat the oven to 400F.  Brush one side of the bread slices
  with some of the olive oil and arrange on a baking sheet oiled side
  up. Bake until lightly browned and crusty, about 4 minutes. 2. Spread
  the olivada or chopped olives on each toast, cover each with a slice
  of mozzarella and top with a slice of tomato.  Brush the tomatoes
  with the remaining oil and sprinkle with the salt and pepper. Bake
  until the cheese is melted, about 8 to 10 minutes.  Serve at once.
  
  * Olivada is a puree of black or green olives packed in oil that is
  sold at specialty food stores.  You can substitute tapenade or make
  your own. (Note from me:  We have a batch of pesto in the
  refrigerator so I plan to use it instead of the olivada.)  I also
  plan to use Creole or homegrown tomatoes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Insalata De Peperoni Arrostiti (Roasted Pepper Salad)
 Categories: Italian, Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Anchovy paste OR
      1    Anchovy fillet--rinsed,
           Dried & mashed
      1 ts Red wine vinegar
      1 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
    1/2 md Red onion, minced
      3 tb Chopped parsley
      3 tb Capers--rinsed, dried &
           Finely chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 md Green bell peppers
           (about 2-1/2 lbs.)
      6 md Red bell peppers
           (about 2-1/2 lbs.)
    1/2 c  Fresh peas OR
    1/2 c  Thawed frozen peas
      1 lb Fresh mozzarella cheese,
           Cut into 1/4-inch slices
      6 md Ripe tomatoes
           (about 3 lbs), peeled and
           Sliced 1/4-inch thick
 
  1.  In a medium bowl, combine the mayonnaise, anchovy paste and
  vinegar. Slowly pour in the olive oil in a steady stream, stirring
  constantly. Stir in the onion, parsley, capers and salt.  (The sauce
  can be prepared up to 4 days ahead.  Cover and refrigerate.) 2.
  Preheat the broiler. On a baking sheet, broil the peppers, 6 at a
  time, as close to the heat as possible, turning occasionally, until
  charred all over, about 25 minutes per batch. Immediately transfer
  the peppers to brown paper bags, seal and set aside to steam for
  about 20 minutes. Peel and core the peppers, then cut them in half
  and remove the seeds and ribs. Slice lengthwise into 1-1/2-inch
  strips. 3. If using fresh peas, blanch them in boiling salted water
  for 5 minutes.  Drain, refresh under cold running water, drain again
  and set aside.  Arrange alternating red and green pepper strips
  around the edge of a large serving platter.  Layer alternate slices
  of cheese and tomato down the center and sprinkle the peas on top.
  Drizzle the dressing over the salad and serve.  (The salad can be
  completely assembled 3 to 4 hours ahead before serving and kept
  covered at room temperature.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinara Sauce (Food & Wine, 1990)
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
      2 sm Garlic cloves, minced OR
           Crushed and peeled*
  2 1/2 lb Plum tomatoes, peeled,
           Seeded and finely chopped
           OR one 35-oz. can and one
           14-oz. can of Italian plum
           Tomatoes, lightly drained
           And finely chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Shredded fresh basil
 
  1.  In a medium nonreactive skillet, heat the oil over moderately low
  heat. Add the garlic and cook, stirring, until golden, about 4
  minutes. Discard the garlic if desired. 2. Add the tomatoes, salt and
  pepper. Cook, stirring occasionally, until thickened, about 30
  minutes. Soft bits of tomato will remain, and the sauce should be
  thick enough to hold its shape on a spoon. (The sauce can be made
  ahead and kept covered in the refrigerator for up to 4 days or frozen
  for up to 3 months.)  Stir in the basil just before serving. *
  Crushed, peeled garlic cloves can be discarded after browning for a
  very subtle flavor or left in and discarded at the end of cooking for
  a slightly more emphatic garlic taste. More often than not I used
  minced garlic and leave it in.  This gives the sauce a strong garlic
  flavor. NOTE: Many southern Italians refer to a quick tomato sauce as
  "marinara" because it could be made at a moment's notice by a
  fisherman's wife upon her husband's return.  Serve over breaded or
  fried foods or mixed into baked pasta dishes or spaghetti, it is the
  most common southern Italian tomato sauce.  I like to make a simple
  marinara, which I can later adjust by adding sauteed onions, other
  fresh herbs, such as oregano, parsley, marjoram or rosemary, or by
  adding hot peppers. Food and Wine, August, 1990
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant in the Style of Modugno (Melanzane Alla Modugno)
 Categories: Italian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant (about 2 lbs),
           Sliced lengthwise 1/4-inch
           Thick
      1 tb Salt
      2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
      2 ts Minced garlic (3 medium
           Cloves)
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
  1 3/4 c  Grated mozzarella cheese
           (8 oz.)
    1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese (2 oz.)
           Freshly ground pepper
      1 c  Marinara Sauce
 
  1.  Layer the eggplant slices in a colander, sprinkling each layer
  with the salt.  Set aside to drain for at least 1-1/2 hours.  Gently
  squeeze out the excess liquid.  Pat dry with paper towels. 2. In a
  large skillet, heat the olive oil over moderately high heat to 375F
  or until a small bread cube browns in about 1 minute.  Add the
  eggplant slices in small batches and fry, turning once, until golden
  and cooked through, about 2 minutes per side.  Remove with a slotted
  spoon and drain on paper towels. 3. Preheat the oven to 375F.  In a
  medium bowl, combine the bread crumbs, garlic, parsley, mozzarella
  and all but 2 Tablespoons of the Parmesan. Stir in the egg and season
  with salt and pepper. 4. Spoon 3/4 c. of the Marinara Sauce into a
  nonreactive 8-by-12-inch baking pan. Spread about 1 Tablespoon of the
  mozzarella mixture on each slice of eggplant, roll up and place seam
  side down in the pan. Spoon the remaining 1/4 c. Marinara Sauce over
  the eggplant rolls and sprinkle the reserved 2 Tablespoons Parmesan
  on top. (This dish can be prepared to this point several hours ahead
  and kept covered at room temperature.) Bake until the mixture bubbles
  and the cheese is melted, about 20 minutes. Serve hot or at room
  temperature. These eggplant rolls are from Apulia, the region that
  forms the heel of the Italian boot.  They make a wonderful antipasto
  or a delicious luncheon dish.  Serve at room temperature to enjoy
  their fullest flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet and Sour Peppers with Almonds (Mandorlata Di Pepero
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/3 c  Dark raisins (2 oz.)
      3 md Red bell peppers
           (about 1-1/4 lbs.),
           Quartered and deribbed
      2 md Green bell peppers
           (about 3/4 lb.),
           Quartered and deribbed
      3 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
    1/3 c  Slivered almonds
           (1-1/2 oz.)
      2 tb Sugar
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  1.  In a small bowl, soak the raisins in warm water for 20 minutes;
  drain and set aside. 2. If you want to peel the peppers, cut the
  quartered peppers in half lengthwise and flatten slightly. Peel the
  pieces with a swivel-bladed vegetable peeler, then cut them
  lengthwise into 1/2-inch strips. Alternatively, slice unpeeled
  peppers into 1/4-inch strips. 3. In a large saucepan, heat the oil
  over moderate heat.  Add the almonds and cook, stirring occasionally,
  for 2 minutes.  Add the raisins and cook for 1 minute, then stir in
  the peppers, sugar, vinegar and salt. Cover and cook for 20 minutes.
  Uncover and continue to cook until the peppers are very tender and
  slightly glazed, 10 to 15 minutes longer. If the peppers begin to
  stick to the pan, add 1 to 2 Tablespoons of warm water. Serve at room
  temperature.  (This dish can also be made several hours ahead and
  reheated just before serving.) This delicious and unusual pepper dish
  is from Basilicata in the instep of the Italian boot. It is wonderful
  with grilled meat, especially Italian sausages. Peeling the peppers
  without roasting them first makes them particularly succulent, but
  peeling isn't mandatory. The dish is delicious either way.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Peppers with Mozzarella and Caramelized Garlic
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Yellow and red bell peppers
      2 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
     18    Garlic cloves, sliced
    1/4 c  Plus 1-1/2 teaspoons
           Balsamic vinegar
      2    Sprigs of fresh thyme OR
    1/4 ts Dried
      6 oz Fresh mozzarella cheese,
           Sliced as thin as possible
    1/4 c  Coarsely chopped flat-leaf
           Parsley or fresh basil
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  1.  Roast the bell peppers directly over a gas flame or under the
  broiler as close to the heat as possible, turning, until charred all
  over, about 5 minutes.  Enclose the peppers in a paper bag and set
  aside for 10 minutes to steam.  With a small knife, scrape off the
  blackened skin; remove the cores, seeds and ribs.  Rinse under
  running water. Slice the peppers lengthwise into 1-inch strips.  (The
  recipe can be prepared to this point up to 3 days ahead; cover and
  refrigerate.) 2. In a small nonreactive skillet, combine the olive
  oil and garlic. Cover and cook over very low heat until the garlic is
  very tender, 7 to 10 minutes. Uncover the pan, increase the heat to
  moderate and cook until browned, about 2 minutes. Stir in the vinegar
  and thyme and cook for 1 minute. 3. To assemble, decoratively arrange
  the pepper strips and mozzarella slices on 6 small plates.  Spoon the
  caramelized garlic dressing over the peppers and cheese and sprinkle
  the parsley and black pepper on top. Serve at room temperature.  (The
  salad can be assembled up to 2 hours before serving.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Home-Improved Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1    Garlic clove finely chopped
     16 oz Can tomato sauce
      1 sm Onion - finely chopped
      2 tb Fresh Parsley - freshly
           Chopped and divided
      1 ts Sugar (optional)
      1 tb Basil, Oregano, or Marjoram
           - finely chopped
           Pepper - freshly ground
           Salt to taste (optional)
 
  When fresh tomatoes aren't in season, here's a quick way to doctor up
  canned tomato sauce. In a Non-Stick VISIONS 1-quart saucepan, heat
  olive oil.  Add onion and garlic and saute over medium heat until
  onion is pale golden. (DON'T BURN IT!) Add tomato sauce and a
  tablespoon of the parsley and cook on medium-low heat about 15
  minutes to blend the flavors. Taste. If too acidic, add a teaspoon of
  sugar.  Add freshly ground pepper to taste and salt, if needed.
  Finish by stirring in another tablespoon of parsley and  your choice
  of Basil, Oregano, or Marjoram. This sauce came from the cookbook
  included with the new CORNING Ware VISIONS Non-Stick 1-quart Sauce
  Pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pesto with Spinach
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Tightly packed spinach,
           Washed and stemmed
      2 tb Broken pine nuts or
           Shelled walnuts
      2 lg Cloves of garlic, peeled
           Salt
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Freshly grated
           Parmesan cheese
      2 tb Freshly grated
           Romano cheese
 
        Place spinach, pine nuts, garlic, and 1/4 to 1/2 tsp. of salt,
  if desired, in a food processor fitted with the steel blade or a
  blender jar. Pulse several times to begin chopping and blending the
  ingredients. Then turn on machine at high speed and pour in the olive
  oil in a steady stream. Blend until the mixture is a smooth paste. If
  you are using a blender you will have to stop and start the machine
  occasionally to give the ingredients a stir. When the ingredients are
  pureed, transfer to a bowl and stir in the cheeses. Blend thoroughly.
  
  For parsley pesto, substitute 2 c. of parsley for the spinach.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Lasagne
 Categories: Italian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------TOMATO SAUCE-----------------------------
      2 tb Oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Garlic clove, chopped
     28 oz Can of tomatoes, chopped
           And undrained
      6 oz Tomato paste
  1 1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2 md Zuccini OR
      2 md Yellow squash OR
      1    Eggplant, chopped
      8 oz Fresh mushrooms, chopped

MMMMM-------------------------CASSEROLE------------------------------
      8    Long spinach lasagne
           Noodles
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
     16 oz Ricotta cheese
    1/2 lb Swiss or Mozzarella cheese,
           Grated + more for
           Topping (optional)
 
  Tomato Sauce:  Saute the onion and garlic in the oil in a large
  skillet. When tender, add tomatoes and tomato paste.  Stir in basil
  and oregano. Add squash and mushrooms.  Simmer about 1 hour, stirring
  occasionally, until sauce thickens.
  
  Casserole:  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease a 13x9 inch pan.
  Layer 1/2 the tomato sauce, 1/2 the lasagne noodles, half the ricotta
  cheese, 1/2 the Parmesan cheese, and half the Swiss or Mozzarella
  cheese. Repeat. Top with additionial Swiss or Mozzarella cheese, if
  desired. Bake 45 minutes. Let cool 15 minutes before cutting.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Focaccia
 Categories: Italian, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Unbleached flour
    2/3    Fresh cake yeast,
           Dissolved in 2/3 cup warm
           Water
     10 tb Olive oil
    1/3 c  Water
  2 1/2 ts Salt
 
   Mix 2 cups flour with the dissolved yeast.  Knead the dough for 10
  minutes, either by hand or in the bowl of an electric mixture with a
  dough hook.  Shape the dough into a ball, and put in an oiled bowl to
  rise until doubled in bulk, about 3 hours.
  
   Punch down, put the dough on a floured board, and knead again,
  incorporating the remaining flour, 1/3 cup olive oil, water, and salt.
  Knead until dough is smooth and elastic.  Let rise again in a covered
  bowl for another 3 hours.
  
   Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.
  
   Divide the dough in half and roll out on a well-floured board to
  circles or squares 1/2 inch thick.  Brush with the remaining olive
  oil and press the topping of your choice into the top of each circle.
   Bake on a baking sheet until golden brown, about 20 minutes.  Serve
  warm or at room temperature, cut into wedges, squares, or triangles.
  
   NOTE:  Slashes may be made in a decorative or random pattern in the
  breads before baking.
  
   TOPPINGS: * Thinly sliced rounds of yellow onion * Paper-thin
  crosswise slices of tomatoes and chunks of sun-dried
    tomatoes * Oregano leaves and slivers of garlic * Coarse salt and
  olive oil * Rosemary sprigs, coarse salt, and olive oil * Black olive
  halves and coarse salt * Sage leaves, coarse salt, and olive oil
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Pesto Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Loosely packed fresh basil
    3/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Pine nuts
      3    Garlic cloves
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese -
           Freshly grated
      3 tb Romano pecorino cheese OR
           Parmesan cheese
 
   Put basil, oil, pine nuts, garlic and salt into a blender or food
  processor.  Process until smooth.  Pour sauce into small bowl.
   Add Parmesan cheese and Romano pecorino cheese or extra Parmesan
  cheese. Mix to blend.  Taste and adjust for seasoning.
  
   If you plan to freeze the sauce, add the cheese after the sauce has
  thawed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pesto Sauce, Winter Style
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      5    Large Cloves Garlic
      1    Bunch   Parsley
  1 1/2 c  Olive Oil
      2 tb Dried Basil
      2 oz Bottle Pignoli (Pine Nuts)
           Or A Small Package Of
           Fresh Pignoli
      4 oz Parmesan Cheese, Grated
           (Plus More For Dusting
           Pasta)
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Peel and cut up the garlic cloves.  Rinse the parsley and remove the
  stems. Shake dry.  Add everything to the blender in the order given.
  Blend on HIGH until the sauce is smooth.  Refrigerate, covered, until
  needed.  This makes enough sauce for 2 lbs of pasta or 8 servings.
  
  NOTES:
  
  You will need extra grated Parmesan cheese to sprinkle over the pasta
  that you have added the sauce to.  Do this just before serving.
  
  Leftover sauce freezes well.  Use to flavor soups, or on broiled meat
  or fish, or as a spread on toasted French Bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Crabs
 Categories: Italian, Seafood, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2    Lemons
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      6    Cloves garlic, minced
      3    Stalks celery, chopped
           Parsley, chopped
 
  To cook crabs, place in boiling water with salt, crab boil and lemons
  for 20 minutes.
  
  Clean crabs, removing legs.  (This means: take tops off of crabs and
  remove the dead man's fingers -- the spongy material on either tip).
  Break in half if small, quarters if large. Slice lemons and squeeze.
  Combine lemon juice, olive oil, garlic, celery, and parlsey and pour
  over crabs. Turn occasionally while marinating.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polo Alla Cacciatora
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      3 lb Frying chicken cut
           Into 4 to 6 pieces
      3 tb Veg oil
      1 c  Flour
           Salt and pepper
    2/3 c  Dry wine (i.e. the Marsala)
    1/3 c  Thinly sliced yellow onion
      1    Green pepper, seeded, cut
           In thin strips
      1 md Carrot, sliced very thin
    1/2    Stalk celery, cut in
           Thin strips
      1    Clove garlic, peeled and
           Chopped very fine
    2/3 c  Canned Italian tomatoes,
           Coarsely chopped, with
           Their juices.
 
  Dredge chicken in flour, shake off excess; brown on both sides in oil
  in large skillet. Transfer to warm platter, season with salt and
  pepper. Draw off most of fat, add wine, boil rapidly til reduced by
  half; scrape up any residue in pan; lower heat to medium, add sliced
  onion, cook 5 mins. Add chicken pieces, all but breasts; add sliced
  pepper, carrot, celery, garlic, tomatoes and juice; adjust to low
  simmer and cover. After 10 mins add breasts, cook til tender, about
  30 mins. Turn and baste chicken a few times while cooking.  Transfer
  chicken to platter. If sauce in pan is too thin, boil briskly til it
  thickens; pour sauce over chicken and serve immediately. Marcella
  Hazan's "The Classic Italian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Liver Marsala  (Ny Times Cook Book)
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Sage
      2    Slices prosciutto, diced
      8    Bread triangles, sauteed
    1/4 c  Marsala
      1 tb Butter
 
  Cut livers in half, simmer in melted butter together with seasonings
  and prosciutto for 5 mins. Remove livers, place them on sauteed bread
  triangles. Add wine to pan gravy, cook 3 mins. Add remaining butter,
  mix well, pour over the livers. 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Romano
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Broiler-fryer
      2 tb Vegetable oil
           Salt
           Pepper
      1 md Omino, halved & sliced
     12 oz Chili sauce
      1 ts Dried oregano
           Grated parmesan cheese
 
  In large skillet, brown chicken in oil, drain excess fat and season
  with the salt and pepper. Add onion and cook covered for 30 minutes.
  Stir in chili sauce and cook uncovered 10 minutes longer, basting
  frequently. Skim excess fat from sauce. Sprinkle grated parmesan
  chesse and serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Scaloppine with Marsala
 Categories: Italian, Meat
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Scallopine of veal, cut
           Into 1/4 inch slices
           Flour for dredging
           Salt
           Freshly ground Pepper
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/4 c  Marsala wine
 
  Unless the scaloppine are very small, cut them into pieces measuring
  ab. 3 in. by 3 in or slightly larger.  Place them between sheets of
  wax paper and pound lightly to flatten.(use a rolling pin, bottom of
  a heavy skillet, pounder, etc.) Blend flour with salt and pepper to
  taste. Dip the meat into flour to coat lightly. Using a large, heavy
  skillet, heat the butter and oil and when it is very hot but not
  brown, add the meat in one layer. Cook over relatively high heat
  until golden brown on one side.  Turn and cook until golden brown on
  the other.  The cooking time should be from 4-6 min. Transfer meat to
  a serving platter or two plates and keep warm. To the skillet add the
  wine and stir to dissolve the particles in the pan. Reduce wine
  slightly and pour equal amounts over each serving. Naturally, these
  amts. may be increased to serve more people. For Chicken marsala, I
  don't see why you can't substitute chicken breasts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Saltimbocca
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Whole chicken breast
           (about 1 pound), halved,
           Boned & skinned
      1    Pkg of sliced jack cheese
      1    Pkg of sliced ham
      2 tb Butter/margarine
           Salt
           Pepper
           Ground nutmeg
      6 lg Mushrooms, sliced
      2 tb Cream Sherry  (this is
           Niggardly; I use *more*)
           Chopped parsley
 
  Place each piece of chicken on a piece of waxed paper; cover with
  another piece of waxed paper and pound meat firmly with a flat mallet
  until about 1/4" thick.  Place 1 slice of cheese & 1 slice of ham on
  each chicken piece; then fold each chicken piece in half to enclose
  cheese & ham; secure with a wooden pick.
  
  Melt butter in a shallow baking dish in the microwave 1 minute; turn
  chicken bundles over in butter to coat all sides.  Lift out and
  sprinkle lightly with salt, pepper and nutmeg.  Add mushrooms to dish
  and cook, uncovered, for 1 to 1-1/2 minutes.  Stir mushrooms, arrange
  chicken over top, cover, and cook 4-6 minutes or until chicken is
  opaque throughout when slashed in thickest portion.
  
  Lift chicken to a warm serving platter; if any melted cheese remains
  in dish, spoon over chicken.  Stir Sherry into pan juices; cook,
  uncovered, 1-1/2 to 2  minutes until liquid is reduced and slightly
  thickened. pour over chicken and garnish with parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hearty Pasta and Red Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad, Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Raw, med-size shaped pasta
      2 c  Cooked/canned red beans OR
      2 c  Kidney beans
      1 c  Diced zucchini (@ 1 med)
      1    Sm green pepper, fine chop
      1    Med ripe tomato, chopped
    1/3 c  Chopped green olives
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 c  Plain yogurt
    1/2 ts Chili powder r more to taste
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Dried sage
 
  Cook the pasta al dente and rinse with cool water.  Drain the pasta
  well and put it in a mixing bowl.  Add the remaining ingredients and
  mix thoroughly.  Serve at room temperature or chilled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Salad with Artichokes and Sprouts
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable, Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Raw sm shaped pasta
    3/4 lb Marinated artichoke hearts
    3/4 c  Firmly packed alfalfa sprout
      1 sm Green pepper finely chop
      1 md Carrot, coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Sliced/chopped black olives
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar, more/less
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/2 ts Dried summer savory
 
  Cook the pasta al dente, then rinse it with cool water.  Drain the
  pasta well and put it in a mixing bowl.
  
  Chop the artichokes into bite-sized pieces and add them to the pasta.
  Add the alfalfa sprouts, separating the strands as much as possible
  with a fork, and the remaining ingredients.  Mix well and allow to
  stand for 1 to 2 hours either at room temperature or refrigerated
  before serving.
  
  Variation: To serve as a main dish salad, garnish with hard-boiled
  eggs or add some diced mozzarella cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops and Pasta with Fresh Tomato Cream Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Bay scallops
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Minced shallots
      1 tb Chives
      1 ts Minced garlic
      2 tb Minced red bell pepper
    1/4 c  Shredded fresh basil
      1 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Chopped tomato *
      2 c  Cooked pasta shells
           Salt & Pepper

MMMMM----------------BASIC PEELED, SEEDED AND CHO---------------------
      2    Ripe tomatos
      1    Gallon boiling water
 
  Rinse the scallops. Heat the butter in a pan and add the scallops.
  Cook and toss for a minute and add the wine, shallots, chives,
  garlic, bell pepper. Cover the pan and let simmer for five minutes or
  until the scallops are just done.  Remove the scallops with a slotted
  spoon and reserve. Put the liquid into a glass dish. Add the basil to
  the liquid. Put the cream and tomato into the pan and reduce over
  high heat buy one-half. Add the reserved liquid and reduce by half
  again. Add the pasta to this to heat through and then the scallops
  for just a minute. Serve with freshly grated parmesan cheese.
  Servings: 4
  
  Plunge the tomatos into the water for 10 to 15 seconds or until the
  skin just begins to show a tiny split or two. Remove and let cool for
  a second or two and then peel the tomato under running water. Slice
  into halves and gently squeeze the tomato to force out the seeds.
  Chop the tomato quickly into a glass bowl until ready for use. (Glass
  or glazed china is important because of the acid)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta W/broccoli and Garlic
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Bunch broccoli, trimmed
           And cut into flowerettes
    1/2 c  Extra virgin olive oil
    1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter
      6 lg Garlic cloves, sliced
           Paper thin
      2 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
      1 lb Large shell macaroni,
           Cooked
 
   Cook broccoli to desired tenderness in lightly salted boiling water.
   RESERVE 1 CUP of BROCCOLI COOKING WATER.  Drain remaining water from
  broccoli and cut into bite-size chunks; set aside.
  
   In a medium size saucepan; heat olive oil over medium, add garlic
  slices and stir until lightly and evenly browned.  (At this point,
  you can remove and dicard the garlic, but I always leave it in!) Add
  the butter, stirring until melted.  Add red pepper flakes and simmer
  3 minutes. Add the reserved broccoli water and simmer another minute.
  Turn off heat and stir in broccoli.  Cover and set aside while
  cooking pasta.
  
   Place cooked pasta into large bowl.  Pour broccoli sauce over pasta.
   Toss to coat and serve with freshly grated Parmesan cheese and black
  pepper.  YUM.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brenda's Italian Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  5 1/2 c  Unsifted flour
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Sugat
      1 tb Butter or margerine
      2    Pkgs active dry yeast
  1 3/4 c  Very warm tap water
           (120 to 130 degrees)
           Cornmeal
           Corn or other vegetable oil
      1    Egg white
      1 tb Cold water
 
  With the metal blade in place, add 3 cups flour, salt, sugar, butter
  and yeast to bowl of processor. Turn machine on and off rapidly 2 or
  3 times or until butter is thoroughly cut into dry ingredients. Add
  half the water and turn processor on and off 4 times. Add 1 1/2 cups
  flour and remaining water. Repeat on/off turns 4 times, then let
  processor run until a ball of dough formson the blades.  If the dough
  is too sticky (wet), add remaining flour a few tablespoons at a time.
  When correct consistency, let processor run 40 to 60 seconds to knead
  dough.
  
  Turn dough out onto a lightly floured board and knead several times
  to form a smooth ball. Cover with plastic wrap and a towel. Let rest
  20 minutes. Divide dough in half. Roll each half into an oblong 15 x
  10 inches. Beginning at wide side, roll tightly Pinch seam to seal
  and taper ends by rolling gently back and forth. Place on greased
  baking sheets sprinkled with cornmeal. Brush dough with corn oil.
  Cover loosely with plastic wrap. Refrigerate 2 to 24 hours.
  
  When ready to bake, remove from refrigerator. Uncover dough carefully
  and let stand at room temperature for 10 minutes. Make 3 ro 4 cuts on
  top of each loaf with edge of metal blade or sharp knife. Bake at 425
  degrees for 20 minutes. Remove from oven and brush with egg white
  beaten with cold water.  Return to oven and bake 5 to 10 minutes
  longer or until golden brown. Remove from oven and cool on a wire
  rack.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basil-Parmesan Scones
 Categories: Bread, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Recipe buttermilk bisquits
    1/2 c  Parmesan
      1 tb Basil
           Dash garlic & onion
           Powder, black pepper
 
  There's a bakery near me called Aunt Mary's (are you listening,
  Sallie?) and they have the most wonderful basil-parmesan scones.  One
  day I experimented and was pleased to find a pretty good facsimile.
  
  Just add the above ingredients along with all the other dry
  ingredients and proceed as above.  These are a nice change of pace
  from Italian or garlic bread.  Or cut with smaller cutter and serve
  as appetizer (don't forget to reduce baking time if smaller).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Italian Sausage (1)
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Crushed red chile
    1/2 ts Cayenne powder
      2 lb Pork, coarsely ground
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 ts Coarsely ground black pepper
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Fennel seed
      1 ts Italian seasoning
      3 oz Dry red wine
      1 tb Sugar
 
   Knead together all ingredients in a large bowl.  Stuff the mixture
  firmly into hog casings, pricking any trapped air bubbles with a pin.
   Tie off in 4 to 6-inch lengths.
  
   Cook the sausages in your preferred manner and crumble them over
  lasagna, or slice and serve them with a spicy marinara sauce over
  spaghetti.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sicilian-Style Hot or Sweet Sausage #1
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      5    Feet medium (2-inch
           Diameter) hog casings
  4 1/2 lb Lean pork butt, cubed
    1/2 lb Pork fat, cubed
  2 1/2 ts Salt, or to taste
      3 ts Freshly coarse ground
           Black pepper
      3 ts Fennel seed
           Crushed red pepper to
           Taste for hot sausage
 
  1. Prepare the casings.
  
  2. Grind the meat and fat together through the coarse disk.
  
  3. Mix the remaining ingredients together with the meat and fat.
  
  4. Stuff the mixture into casings and twist off into three- or
  four-inch links.
  
  5. Refrigerate and use within three days or freeze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sicilian-Style Hot or Sweet Sausage #2
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      5    Feet medium (2-inch
           Diameter) hog casings
  4 1/2 lb Lean pork butt, cubed
    1/2 lb Pork fat, cubed
  2 1/2 ts Salt, or to taste
      3 ts Freshly coarse ground
           Black pepper
      3 ts Fennel seed
           Crushed red pepper to
           Taste for hot sausage
      2 cl Garlic, finely minced
      1 ts Anise seed
 
  1. Prepare the casings. 2. Grind the meat and fat together through the
  coarse disk. 3. Mix the remaining ingredients together with the meat
  and fat. 4. Stuff the mixture into casings and twist off into three-
  or four-inch links. 5. Refrigerate and use within three days or
  freeze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Northern Italian-Style Hot or Sweet Sausage
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      3    Feet medium (2-inch
           Diameter) hog casings
  2 1/2 lb Lean pork butt, cubed
    1/2 lb Pork fat, cubed
  1 1/2 ts Salt, or to taste
      2 ts Freshly coarse ground
           Black pepper
      2 ts Finely ground coriander
      2 cl Garlic, finely minced
      1 ts Crushed red pepper for
           Hot sausage, or to taste
 
  "This variety is easy to make and is delicious roasted or used to
  flavor tomato sauce. To make three pounds: 1. Prepare the casings. 2.
  Grind the meat and fat together through the coarse disk. 3. Mix the
  remaining ingredients together with the meat. 4. Stuff into the
  casings and twist off into three-inch links. 5. Refrigerate and use
  within three days or freeze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Italian Sausage (2)
 Categories: Italian, Pork
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  2 1/2 ts Coarse (kosher) salt
    1/2 ts Whole black peppercorns
      6    Dried hot red peppers
           (each about 1-1/2 inches
           Long), seeds removed, OR
      2 ts Crushed dried red pepper
           Flakes
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1 ts Fennel seeds
    1/2 ts Very finely minced garlic
  1 3/4 lb Lean, trimmed pork, cut
           Into 1-inch dice and
           Chilled
    1/2 lb Fresh pork fat, cut into
           1/2-inch dice and chilled
 
  1. Combine the salt, peppercorns, hot peppers, paprika, thyme, and
  fennel in a spice mill or a mortar and grind to a coarse texture, not
  a powder. Mix in a small bowl with the garlic. 2. Combine the meat,
  fat, and spices in a large bowl. 3. Put half the mixture in the
  container of a food processor and process to a medium-coarse grind
  (if you are using a meat grinder, follow the directions on page 4,
  using the medium disc). The meat and fat should be distinct from each
  other, but reduced to pieces of about the same size; do not
  overprocess. Scrape into a bowl. Repeat with the remaining
  ingredients, then knead the batches together, cover the bowl, and
  refrigerate for 12 to 24 hours. 4. Stuff the casings as indicated in
  the general sausage-making instructions on pages 4-5, tying off the
  links at 4 to 5 inches. If weather is cool, hang the sausages for a
  few hours, until they are just dry to the touch. If it's too hot or
  humid to hang the sausages, simply refrigerate them, uncovered, for a
  minimum of 12 hours. Store in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, or
  freeze for longer storage. TO COOK: Prick the sausages with a needle
  and arrange in a single layer in a baking pan. Bake in a 425-degree
  oven for 25 minutes, or until browned, tuning often. Or place the
  pricked sausages in a large skillet and add 1/4 inch of water. Cook
  over moderate heat, turning often, until the water has evaporated and
  the sausages are well browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Marsala with Provolone
 Categories: Meat, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Veal cutlets
           Flour
           Salt & pepper
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      4    Mushrooms, fresh, sliced
    1/2 c  Marsala wine
      4 tb Butter, cold
           Provolone cheese, sliced
 
  Pound veal cutlets between sheets of waxed paper til about 1/4" thick.
   Combine flour and salt & papper to taste.  Dredge cutlets in the
  flour mixture.  Combine 2 Tbsp butter with the 2 Tbsp olive oil in a
  large frying pan over medium high heat.  Cook cutlets until lightly
  browned- about 2-3 minutes per side.  Remove cutlets to a platter or
  pan suitable for use under a broiler.  Place sliced mushrooms in the
  frying pan and cook until tender, adding a little butter if needed.
  Add Marsala and reduce sauce to about half of the original volume.
  Pre-heat broiler. Lower heat under the frying pan to VERY low, or
  place pan in a larger pan of hot water. Whisk in cold butter, 1 Tbsp
  at a time, adding each just before the last is completely
  incorporated. Remove sauce from heat immediately when done. Place a
  slice of provolone on each cutlet and broil until cheese bubbles and
  just starts to brown. Serve sauce alongside the cutlets, or spoon
  over as they are served.  (This type of sauce will separate if it
  becomes too hot at any point- mine always does :) ).
  
  Other ideas:  Use chicken in place of veal.  Place a slice of
  prosciutto on the chicken or veal, then the slice of cheese before
  broiling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Patties with Vegetables Provencal
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground raw lamb
      1    Large egg
      2 tb Bread crumbs
  1 1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Rosemary
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Med onion cut in rings
      2 lg Cloves crushed garlic
      8 oz Zucchini cut in 1/4"
           Slices
 14 1/2 oz Canned tomatoes
     16 oz Can sm whole potatoes
           Drained
 
  Mix lamb, egg, bread crumbs, 1 t salt, 3/4 t rosemary and hot pepper
  sauce in bowl.  Shape into 8 patties.  Heat oil in large skillet over
  high heat. Add lamb patties and cook about 2 min per side until done
  as desired. Remove from skillet with slotted spoon.  Add onion and
  garlic to pan drips. Cook over med heat until onion is golden,
  stirring occasionally. Stir in zucchini and tomatoes.  Season with
  remaining salt and rosemary. Cover and simmer about 10 min until
  zucchini is tender. Stir in potatoes; put lamb patties on top of
  vegetables. Cover and heat through. Sprinkle with parsley.  Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne with Smothered Scallops, Tomato, Basil
 Categories: Pasta, Italian, Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Tomatoes - large, ripe OR
      2 cn Roma tomatoes
      1 lb Scallops
      1 tb Garlic - chopped fine
      1 ts Salr
      1 lb Dried penne
      2 tb Italian parsley
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/4 ts Crushed chilli pepper
      1 ts Lemon zest - grated
    1/2 c  Fresh basil leaves
      4 tb Parmesan cheese - grated
 
  Drop tomatoes, briefly into boiling water to loosen skins and peel.
  Remove most seeds and chop coarsely.  Slice scallops into thin rounds
  about 1/4-inch thick and place in bowl with lemon rind.  Saute garlic
  in oil until pale golden and add the tomatoes, salt and hot pepper
  flakes. Simmer for 5 minutes.  Boil a large pot of water, add salt
  and pasta. Cook for 7 to 9 minutes, until barely done.  Drain and
  immediately add to sauce. Add basil, chopped parsley and scallops.
  Cover pot tightly and remove from heat.  Let stand 4 minutes to cook
  scallops. Remove lid, stir in Parmesan and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettuccine with Shrimp
 Categories: Italian, Seafood, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 lb Shrimp - medium, uncooked,
           Peeled & deveined
      4 lg Tomatoes - seeded and
           Coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh basil - chopped
    1/3 c  Black olives -
           Sliced & pitted
      3 lg Garlic cloves - minced
      2 tb Shallots - minced
           Salt & freshly ground
           Black pepper
      1 lb Fettuccine, freshly cooked
           Romano cheese - grated
 
  Heat oil in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat.  Add shrimp,
  tomatoes, basil, olives, garlic and shallot.  Season with salt and
  pepper. Cook until shrimp turn pink,  stirring frequently, about 3
  minutes. Place pasta in serving bowl.  Pour sauce over and toss.
  Sprinkle with Romano. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Scallopine W/mushroom Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Italian, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------MUSHROOM SAUCE----------------------------
    3/4 c  Chicken Broth
      1 tb Flour
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Green Onion - finely
           Chopped (white part only)
      2 c  Mushrooms - thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Whipping Cream
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
           Nutmeg
           Cayenne Pepper

MMMMM--------------------------CHICKEN-------------------------------
      1 lb Chicken Breasts - boned
           And skinned,

MMMMM---------------------OR VEAL SCALLOPINE--------------------------
      2 tb Flour
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      1    Egg
      2 tb Water
  1 1/2 c  Breadcrumbs
      5 tb Olive Oil
      2 tb Butter
 
  CHICKEN:
    Pound meat between sheets of waxed paper until thin.  Combine
  flour, salt and pepper in pie plate.  Beat egg with water in shallow
  dish. Dredge meat in flour; dip in egg mixture; roll well in
  breadcrumbs. LET SIT ON WAX PAPER FOR 10 MINUTES!!!  Heat oil and
  butter in large skillet over medium-high heat.  Add meat in batches
  and saute until browned, turning once, about 3-5 minutes, adding more
  oil and butter if necessary. Keep warm and spoon mushroom sauce (see
  recipe). MUSHROOM SAUCE:
     Combine broth and flour in small bowl and stir until flour is
  dissolved. Melt butter in skillet over medium high heat. Add onion
  and saute until tender, about 1 minute.  Reduce heat to medium; add
  mushrooms; saute 2 to 3 minutes.  Stir in broth. Increase heat to
  medium high and cook until slightly thick, stirring occasionally,
  about 10 minutes. Blend in cream, salt and pepper.  Season to taste
  with nutmeg and cayenne pepper. VARIATION:  For thicker gravy, delete
  the whipping cream.  Gravy will also be browner too.  (Or add Kitchen
  Bouquet to darken sauce.) NOTE: We find that if we are making this
  for company it is best to use TWO frying pans to speed things up.
  Also, this is wonderful when served with Fettucine Alfredo and
  Stuffed Tomatoes!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Lover's Pizza Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian, Pizza
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 tb Olive Oil
    1/2 c  Onion; Minced, 1 Md.
    1/2    Green Pepper; Minced
      3    Cloves Garlic; Large, Minced
  1 1/2 c  Water
      6 oz Tomato Paste; 1 Cn
    1/2 ts Basil; Dried
    1/2 ts Oregano; Dried
      1 ts Parsley; Dried
           Salt & Pepper; To Taste
 
  Pour the oil into a deep, heavy skilled over medium-high heat.  Add
  the onion and green pepper then cook and stir for about 5 minutes.
  Add the garlic and continue to cook, stirring, until the vegetables
  are tender. Add the water and then stir in the tomato paste.
  Sprinkle the sauce with the basil, oregano, and parsley.  Lower the
  heat and let simmer for about 5 minuts.  Add the salt and pepper to
  taste.  If desired, add 2 to 3 dashes of hot pepper sauce.  Let
  simmer, stirring often, about 30 minutes or until the sauce if very
  thick.
  
  Makes about 3 Cups of sauce.  This is sufficient sauce for two 12 to
  14-inch round pizza or 1 oblong pizza or 1 deep dish pizza.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti Al Pomodoro E Basilico
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Fresh ripe tomatoes
    1/3 c  Italian olive oil
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      3 cl Garlic
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil
           Salt & pepper to taste
  1 1/4 lb Spaghetti
    3/4 c  Parmesan cheese
     20    Basil leaves
 
  Wash, peel & chop tomatoes, discarding seeds.  Heat oil in a
  moderately deep pan, add onion & garlic and saute until onion is
  limp.  Discard garlic and add tomatoes, chopped basil and salt &
  pepper.  Simmer for about 20 minutes over moderate heat. While sauce
  is simmering, bring a large pot of water to boil.  Add salt to taste
  and add spaghetti. Boil until spaghetti is "al dente," aprox 8 to 10
  minutes. Drain spaghetti, toss with the sauce and the grated cheese.
  
  Garnish each plate with some of the basil leaves.  Serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti All'aglio E Peperoncino Piccante
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      6 lg Ripe tomatoes, peeled
           And chopped
      3 cl Garlic, finely chopped
      1 ts Crushed red pepper
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Salt to taste
      1 lb Spaghetti
    1/2 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
   Heat olive oil in a large skillet and add tomatoes, garlic and
  crushed pepper.  Let simmer over low heat for 15 minutes.  Add
  parsley and salt and simmer 2 minutes longer.
  
   Meanwhile, heat 4 to 6 quarts water in a large pot.  Add salt to
  taste and the spaghetti.  Bring to boil and boil about 8 minutes,
  until spaghetti is "al dente."  Do not over cook.  Drain and add to
  the skillet.  Heat through and serve sprinkled generously with
  Parmesan cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple-Prosciutto Chicken
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Boned skinless chicken
           Breast halves (about 1 lb.
           Total)
      4    Slices prosciutto or
           Boiled ham
    1/2 c  Finely chopped apple
    1/8 ts Apple pie spice
           Apple pie spice
      2 tb Finely chopped green onion
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      1 tb All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Skim milk
    1/2 c  Shredded provolone
           Cheese (2 ounces)
           Hot cooked rice (optional)
 
  Rinse chicken, pat dry.  Place each breast half between 2 pieces of
  plastic wrap.  Pound from the center to the edges with the flat side
  of a meat mallet till 1/4 inch thick.  Remove plastic wrap. Place one
  prosciutto slice atop each breast half.  Combine apple and 1/8
  teaspoon pie spice. Place a fourth of the apple mixture on each
  breast. Fold in sides and roll up each half starting from a narrow
  end. Secure with wooden toothpicks. Sprinkle with additional apple
  pie spice.  Place in a 10x6x2 inch baking dish.  Bake, uncovered, in
  a 350 degree oven for 25 to 30 minutes until tender and no longer
  pink.  Remove picks. In a small saucepan cook onion in margarine
  until tender.  Stir in flour and dash pepper. Add milk. Cook and stir
  till thickened and bubbly; cook and stir 1 minute more. Stir in
  cheese till melted. Serve sauce over chicken rolls. Serve with rice
  or on a bed of rice, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Cacciatoria #2
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Italian, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken, cut up
      1 cl Garlic, peeled
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 cn Tomatoes (28 oz)
      8 sm White onions, peeled
      6 oz Tomato paste
      2 ts Sugar
      1    Bay leaf
 
  Rub chicken with garlic.  Mince garlic and save.  Combine flour, 1 tsp
  salt, and pepper in large paper bag; shake chicken pieces until
  coated. Heat oil in Dutch oven.  Brown chicken a few pieces at a time
  on all sides; drain on absorbent paper.  Pour off any oil remaining
  in pan. Return chicken to Dutch oven.  Add garlic, tomatoes, tomato
  paste, onions, sugar, 1 tsp salt, and bay leaf. Cover. Basting
  occasionally with sauce in the pan, simmer 1 hour or until chicken is
  tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne Pasta with Sun-Dried Tomatoes and Chile
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 tb Crushed red chile
    1/2 c  Sun-dried tomatoes,
           Cut in slivers
      1 c  Black olives, cured in
           Oil, pitted and halved
    1/2 c  Fresh basil, chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh Italian parsley,
           Chopped
      1 tb Grated lemon peel
      3 cl Garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Oil from the tomatoes
      2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    3/4 lb Parmesan cheese, grated
      1 lb Penne pasta
 
   Combine all ingredients, except the cheese and pasta, and let sit at
  room temperature for a couple of hours to blend the flavors.
  
   Cook the pasta in 4 quarts of boiling salted water until tender but
  still firm - 'al dente'.  Drain.
  
   Toss the pasta with the sauce and cheese until well coated and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghettini Alla Carrettiera
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 ts Ground red chile
      1 lb Fresh tomatoes, cut up
      3 cl Garlic
      2 tb Olive oil
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Vodka
     10    Sprigs Italian parsley,
           Coarsely chopped
      1 lb Spaghettini
 
   Combine the chile, tomatoes, garlic and olive oil.  Simmer the sauce
  for 30 minutes and run through a food mill to remove seeds and skins.
  
   Add the cream and vodka and simmer until the sauce is reduced.
  
   Cook the spaghettini in 4 quarts of boiling salted water until
  tender but still firm (al dente), being very careful not to overcook
  this thin spaghetti.  Drain.
  
   Mix the sauce with the spaghettini, top with the parsley and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parmesan Chicken Bake
 Categories: Italian, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Chicken breasts
    1/2 c  Melted butter
      1 c  Fine whole wheat bread
           Crumbs
    3/4 c  Parmesan cheese
      1 cl Garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  Rinse chicken breasts; pat dry.  Dip
  into melted butter; coat with mixture of the remaining ingredients.
  Arrange skin side up in shallow baking pan. Sprinkle with any
  remaining butter and crumb mixture. Bake for 50 minutes or until
  tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Stuffed Pasta Shells
 Categories: Pasta, Italian, Main dish, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Bulk sausage
      1 c  Canned chicken
    1/8 pk Saltines
      2 tb White wine
      5 oz Conchiglioni
    1/4 c  Parsley
      2    Scallions
    1/4 lb Mushrooms
      2 tb Parsley
    1/2 ts Celery salt
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
      1 tb Paprika
 
  Crumble sausage into casserole.  Add scallions.  Nuke on high three
  to four minutes.  Pour off fat.  Stir in chicken, sauteed mushrooms,
  crumbs, wine, parsley, and celery salt.  Mix well. Stuff 16 shells
  and place four in each gratin dish.  Pour Mornay Sauce over shells.
  Cover with plastic wrap. Nuke on high for seven to eight minutes,
  turning once. Spoon sauce over pasta before serving.  Sprinkle with
  parmesan, parsley and paprika.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Soup Veneto-Style-Pasta E Fagioli Alla Veneta
 Categories: Italian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Dried pinto beans
      4 c  Beef stock  OR
      3 c  Canned beef broth
      6 c  Water
      6 tb Olive oil
      2    Slices prosciutto rind OR
      2    Slices salt pork
      1    Carrot, chopped
      1    Celery stalk, chopped
      1    Medium onion, chopped
      1    Sprig fresh rosemary  OR
      1 ts Dried rosemary
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
      2    Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      2 tb Tomatoe paste
           Salt & pepper, to taste
    1/4 lb Small elbow macaroni  OR
    1/4 lb Arborio rice
    1/3 c  Parmesan cheese,fresh grated
           Additional Parmesan cheese
 
  Place beans in a large bowl.  Add enough cold water to cover and let
  stand overnight.  Drain and rinse beans thoroughly.  Prepare meat
  broth.  Place beans in a large saucepan.  Add water, broth, 2
  tablespoons oil, prosciutto rind or salt pork, carrot, celery and
  onion.  Cover and bring to a boil. Reduce heat.  Simmer 50 to 60
  minutes, stirring occasionally. Heat 3 tablespoons oil in a small
  saucepan.  Add rosemary.  Cook over medium heat until lightly
  browned.  Discard rosemary.  Add parsley and garlic; saute. When
  garlic changes color, stir in flour.  Cook and stir about 1 minute.
  Remove 1 cup cooking liquid from bean mixture.  Stir in tomato paste.
  Stir into flour mixture.  Season with salt and pepper. Cook 5 to 10
  minutes, stirring frequently.  Add to bean mixture.  With a slotted
  spoon, place a third of bean mixture in a blender or food processor.
  Process until smooth. Return to saucepan.  Bring soup to a boil. Add
  pasta or rice and cook over high heat 8 to 10 minutes.  Stir several
  times during cooking. Taste and adjust for seasoning.  Stir 1
  tablespoon oil and 1/3 cup Parmesan cheese into soup.  Serve hot with
  additional Parmesan cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 24-Hour Lettuce Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Head lettuce, torn
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Green pepper, diced
      1    Red onion, chopped
      1 pk Frozen baby green peas,
           Slightly thawed
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      2 ts Sugar or honey
      4 oz Cheddar cheese, grated
      8    Slices bacon, crumbled
 
  Layer first 5 ingredients in a glass bowl in order of listing.
  Spread on mayonnaise.  Sprinkle on sugar or honey, then cheese, then
  bacon.  Cover with foil and refrigerate overnight.  Toss lightly just
  before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Long Life" Noodles with Egg
 Categories: Chinese, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb "Long Life" egg noodles
      8 qt Salted water
    1/2 lb Spinach
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Sesame oil
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Cornstarch paste
      2    Green onions, minced
    1/4 c  Boiled ham, slivered
 
  Preparation:  Wash & trim spinach.  Wash, then boil noodles; drain;
  divide among soup bowls.  In same water, blanch spinach; drain; press
  dry; chop coarsely; put on noodles.
  
  Heat broth in sauce pan.  Add soy sauce, sesame oil, salt & cornstarch
  paste to thicken slightly.
  
  Poaching Eggs:  Put 4 cups of water in wok; bring to boil.  Break
  eggs in ladle one at a time; poach for 2 minutes.  Place egg on
  spinach.
  
  Finishing:  Pour hot soup over egg.  Garnish with minced onion & ham.
  Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ichiban Dashi ( Basic Soup Stock)
 Categories: Japanese, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 pt Cold Water
    1/2 oz Katsuobushi
      3    Inch Square Kombu
 
  Pour 4 pints of cold water into lg saucepan and bring it to boil.
  Drop in Kombu, and bring just to boil again, then remove the Kombu
  and set aside. Stir in the Katsuobushi and turn off heat.  Let rest
  for 2 minutes, then skim off scum.  Strain out Katsuobushi.  Set both
  aside.  The Stock may be used immediately or can be used up to 8
  hours later.  Can be kept in fridge for up to 2 days.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Niban Dashi (Vegetable Stock)
 Categories: Japanese, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 x  Inch Sq Cooked Kombu
      2 pt Cold Water
    3/8 pt Katsuobushi (Cooked)
      3 tb Pre-Flaked Katsuobushi
 
  The Kombu and the Katsuobushi may be taken from the Ichiban Dashi
  recipie. Put the cooked Kombu anf Katsuobushi with 2 Pt cold water in
  a medium sized saucepan and bring to boil.  Add all Katsuobushi,
  reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes.  Strain out Kombu and
  Katsuobushi, discard Kombu and Katsuobushi.  Can be kept at room temp
  for 8 hrs or refrigerated for 2 days.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Satsuma Jiru (Miso-Flavored Pork and Vegetable Stew)
 Categories: Japanese, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Boned Pork 1/4" Dice
           Section Canned Konnyaku
      1    Gobo
      1    1" Slice Daikon
      4 oz Aka Miso
      1    Green Onion
      1 lb Pork Neck Bones
      2    Shiitake
      1    Medium Carrot
      4 oz Sweet Potato, Pld 1/4" Dice
      1 pn MSG
           Hichimi Togarishi
 
  Cut Konnyaku into strips 1/4" wide and 2" long.  Peel Carrot and cut
  into strips 2" long and 1/4" wide.  Cut Daikon into strips 1/4" wide
  and 1" long. PREPARE IN ADVANCE: 1.Bring 3/8pt of water to boil and
  drop in diced pork.  Cook for 10 minutes 2. Cover pork bones with 2
  1/2 pt cold water, bring to boil uncovered. Reduce heat and simmer
  for 30 minutes strain broth.  Set aside pork and broth. 3. Bring 3/8
  pt water to boil and drop in Konnyaku, return to boil, ans set aside.
  4. Steam Shiitake for 4 minutes, discard stalks, slice caps into
  strips. 5. Peel gobo to make 3 T of peelings, discard root. TO COOK:
    Drop the Konnyaku into the pan of pork broth and bring to boil over
  low heat.  Add carrot and Daikon strips and raise heat.  Bring to
  full boil , add Sweet potato and mushroom strips.  Skim off foam.
  Cook for 5 more minutes and, with the back of a spoon, rub in the
  miso in through a strainer.  Stir in MSG.  Stir in the Gobo (if
  used). TO SERVE: Transfer soup to a large serving bowl, sprinkle
  onions over the top, and add spice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Misoshiru (Clear Soup with Soybean Paste)
 Categories: Japanese, Soup/stew
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------AKA MISO-------------------------------
  2 1/2 pt Ichiban Dashi
      4 oz Aka Miso Paste

MMMMM-------------------------SHIRO MISO------------------------------
  2 1/2 pt Ichiban Dashi
    1/2 lb Shiro Miso Paste

MMMMM-------------------------AWASE MISO------------------------------
  2 1/2 pt Ichiban Dashi
      4 oz Aka Miso Paste
      4 oz Shiro Miso Paste
 
  Place 2 1/2 pt Dashi in a medium sized saucepan and set a sieve over
  the pan.  Rub in the Miso.  Bring the soup to simmering point over a
  moderate heat, remove from heat and add a pinch of MSG.  Add a
  garnish (Misoshiro No-mi) and serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mishoshiru No-Mi (Miso Soup Garnishes)
 Categories: Japanese, Relish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM------------------WASAME AND SPRING ONIONS-----------------------
    1/2 oz Wakame
      1    Spring Onion

MMMMM-------------------TOFU AND SPRING ONIONS------------------------
      6 oz Tofu
      1    Spring Onion

MMMMM------------------DAIKON AND SPRING ONIONS-----------------------
      1    Diakon, peeled
      1    Spring Onion (all)

MMMMM-----------------------FU AND MUSTARD----------------------------
     18    Kobana or Yachi-Fu
      1    Powdered Mustard
 
  WAKAME AND SPRING ONIONS Soak the Wakame in a bowl of warm water for
  15 minutes.  When soft, strip the leaves fro the tough central vein.
  Discard the vein. Add sliced onions. TOFU AND SPRING ONIONS When soup
  simmers, drop in the tofu ans simmer for 1 minute.  Pour into bowl,
  garnish with onions, and serve. DIAKON AND SPRING ONION
    Cut the 1 inch diakon into strips 1/8" wide and 2" long.  COver the
  strips with cold water and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer
  for 5 minutes until vegitable are tender but still firm.  When the
  Miso soup begins to simmer, drain the Daikon and add it to the soup.
  Garnish with onions and serve. FU AND MUSTARD Soak the dried coutons
  in cold water for 10 minutes, until they are soft.
   Squeeze the gently to rid them of their moisture.  Bring the Miso to
  a simmering point, drop the croutons and simmer for 1 minute.  Pour
  the sou, add mustard, and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kamo Sakamushi (Sake Steamed Duck)
 Categories: Japanese, Appetizer
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2    Whole Duck or Chicken Breast
  2 1/2 ts Sake
 
  IN ADVANCE: Place Boned Duck or CHocken breast skin side up on a
  flameproof dish and sprinkle with 1 scant t of salt. Cover,
  refrigerate, and let sit for 3 hours. TO COOK: Preheat the grill to
  it's highest point. Meanwhile, pour Sake over the Chicken or Duck and
  steam for 7 minutes. Remove the from steamer, and grill 3" from heat
  for 2 minutes. Cool to room temperature, cut breasts into 1/4" slices
  and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamaguri Shigure-Ni (Sweet Cooked Clams)
 Categories: Japanese, Appetizer
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      3 tb Sake
     24    Small Clams or Cockels
  1 1/2 oz Sugar
  2 1/2 tb Soya Sauce
 
  TO COOK: Put the Sake, sugar, and clams into a large frying pan and
  stir together. Bring to boil over high heat and cook for 3 minutes,
  uncovered. Stir in the Soya sauce and cook briskly for another
  minute. Remove from heat and set aside.
      Boil the remaining liquid for 10 minutes until it becomes syrupy.
  Add clams and stir them gently in the sauce over hight heat for 1
  minute. TO SERVE: Transfer to deep bowl, and cool to room
  temperature. Serve cool.
  
  *NOTE:  Tiny Shrimp, mussels, or bits of fresh tunny fish may be
  sustituted for the clams and cockles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamaguri Sakami (Sake Seasoned Clams)
 Categories: Japanese, Appetizer
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     12    Littleneck Clams or Cockles
      3 tb Sake
      6    Thin slices of lemon
  1 1/2 pt Boiling Water
      1 pn MSG
 
  PREPARE IN ADVANCE: Have clams shelled, save shells. Discard shallow
  halves, scrub the deep halves. Drop the shells into boiling water,
  boil for 2-3 minutes, then drain. Rinse and dry. TO COOK AND SERVE:
  Bring the Sake to boil over high heat.  Sprinkle MSG, then drop in
  the clams, stir gently, and cover.  Cook over moderately high heat
  for 3-4 minutes, then remove the clams and place in the shell.
  Garnish each clam with a slice of lemon. Serve at room temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Awabi Sakami (Sweet Cooked Abalone)
 Categories: Japanese, Appetizer, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     15 oz Abalone (canned)
  2 1/2 tb Sake
  2 1/2 ts Soya Sauce
    1/4 pt Water
      1 oz Sugar
 
  Empty the can of Abalone into a small saucepan and add water.  Bring
  to boil, reduce heat and simmer uncovered for 10 minutes.  Add Sake
  and Sugar and cook for another 5 minutes, stir in Soya sauce and
  continnue to cook for 2-3 more minutes.  Cool to room temperature,
  cut the abalone into 1/2" thick slices and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shibu Kawa-Ni (Chestnuts Cooked in Green Tea)
 Categories: Japanese, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Peeled Chestnuts
      4 ts Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Green Tea Leaves
      1 ts Soya Sauce
 
  Cover the chesnuts with cold water and the tea leaves and bring to
  boil in a small saucepan.  Reduce the heat  and simmer for 20 minutes
  until the chestnuts show no resistance when pierced.  Drain and wash
  under cold running water.  Leave the brown membrane intact.  Put 3/8
  pt of water, sugar and the chestnuts into a saucepan and bring to
  boil.  Reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes, the stir in Soy Sauce.
  Simmer for 5 minutes, remove from heat, and cool to room temperature
  before draining and serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ebi Kimizushi (Prawn Sushi with Egg Yolk)
 Categories: Japanese, Appetizer, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SUSHI--------------------------------
      6    Med., Raw, Unshelled, Shrimp

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      3 tb Rice Vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
      1 pn MSG
      4 tb Water
    1/4 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      4    Egg Yolks
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 pn MSG
  1 1/4 ts Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Lemon Juice
 
  TO COOK PRAWNS: Leaving the shells of the prawns intact, insert the
  toothpicks along the inside curves to prevent curling. Drop the prawn
  into 3/4 pt of boiling water and cook briskly, uncovered, for about 3
  minutes until pink and firm. Drain in a sieve and cool quickly under
  cold running water.  Remove the toothpicks and peel the prawns,
  leaving the last section of shell and tail on each one. De-vein the
  prawns by making a shallow incision  across their tops with a small,
  sharp knife. Lift out the vein. Butterfly the prawns by cutting along
  their inner curves 3/4 of the way through, spreading the open and
  flattening with a cleaver. MARINADE Put the vinegar, water, salt,
  sugar and MSG into a mixing bowl and stir together thoroughly.  Add
  the prawns, marinade at room temperature for 1 hour. FILLING Drop the
  egg yolks into a small saucepan and beat lightly with a fork. Remove
  2 1/2 t of the yolks and set aside.
    Add 3/4 pt of water to the remaining yolks, stir thoroughly, and
  cook over a moderate heat for 10-15 minutes until the yolks are firm
  and hard-boiled.  Drain them in a sieve, and mash them into a paste.
  Beat the sugar, salt, salt, lemon juice, MSG, and the rest of the raw
  egg yolks and continue to beat.  Rub the mixture through a fine
  sieve. TO ASSEMBLE AND SERVE Divide the seasoned egg filling into 6
  equal parts and pack each part into the center of a prawn. Seal the
  edges by pressing them together. Serve at room temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gyuniku Negimaki (Steak and Onion Spring Rolls)
 Categories: Japanese, Appetizer, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 oz Slice Rump Steak
      3 tb Teriyaki Sauce
      2    Spring Onions w/ 3" of stalk
 
  PREPARE IN ADVANCE: Cut onions in half lengthwise, the cut into 4"
  pieces. Place the steak between sheets of greasproof paper and pound
  into 1/8" thickness.  Cut the steaks in half crosswise.  Arrange the
  strip of onions down the length of each piece of meat.  Starting with
  the wide end, roll into tight cylinders.  Secure with toothpicks. TO
  COOK: Preheat grill. Dip rolls in Teriaki sauce and grill them 3"
  from heat for 3 minutes. Dip again in sauce and grill for another 3
  minutes. Remove toothpicks, trim ends, and cut into 1" pieces.  Stand
  each piece on end.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nasu Karashi Sumiso-Ae (Eggplant W/ Mustard & Miso Dressi
 Categories: Japanese, Vegetable, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Eggplant
      4 tb White Miso Dressing
  2 1/2 ts Powdered mustard (Wasabi)
      1 pn Salt
  2 1/2 ts Soy Sauce
 
  IN ADVANCE: Cut the Eggplant in half lengthwise, then crossways into 4
  pieces, then into 4" cubes. Bring 3/4 pt water to boil in a small
  saucepan. Add Salt and drop in Eggplant. Boil fot 3-5 minutes. Drain
  and let cool. Pat the cubes dry. TO ASSEMBLE AND SERVE: Put the Miso,
  Soy Sauce, and Wasabi into a mixing bowl and stir until well blended.
  Add the eggplant and toss until well coated.  Serve at room
  temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shira-Ae (Tofu & Sesame-Seed Dressing W/ Vegetables)
 Categories: Japanese, Vegetable, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pieces Canned Konnyaku
      1    Sm Carrot, Scraped & Shred
      1 ts Vegetable Oil
      3 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Soy Sauce
      1    Loaf Tofu
      1 pn Salt
      6 tb Niban Dashi
      1 pn MSG
  2 1/2 ts White Sesame-Seeds
 
  PREPARE IN ADVANCE:
     Bring 3/8 pt water to boil  and drop in Konnyaku.  Return to boil
  and drain immediately.  Bring another 3/8 pt water to boil and drop
  in the loaf of Tofu.  Reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes, drain and
  cool to room temperature.  Wrap Tofu in a towel and napkin and
  squeeze to remove moisture.  Rub through a sieve over a bowl.
     Cook the Carrots for 30 minutes.
     Heat oil over high heat.  Stir in the Dashi, 1/2 t sugar, salt,
  MSG, and 1/8 t Soy Sauce.  Bring to boil.  Continue to boil until
  liquid has reducet by half.  Cool to room temp. Roast sesame seeds
  and grind into a paste and mix with Tofu. TO ASSEMBLE AND SERVE:
  Drain the Konnyaku and its sauce through a sieve set over a small
  bowl. Stir in 5 t of the sauce into the Sesame-seed/Tofu Paste.  Stir
  in 2 1/2 t salt, MSG, the drained Konnyaku, and the grated Carrot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Goma Jayu-Ae (Soy & Sesame-Seed Dressing W/ French Beans)
 Categories: Japanese, Salad, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb French beans
    3/8 pt Niban Dashi
      1 pn MSG
    1/4 ts Soy Sauce
      1 pn Salt
  2 1/2 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Sake

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 oz White Sesame Seed, Ground
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
  2 1/2 tb Sake
      5 ts Soy Sauce
 
  PREPARE IN ADVANCE: Snip off ends of french beans and discard. Cut
  beans into 1/2" lengths. Drop them into 3/4 pt of lightly salted
  boiling water, reduce heat and cook briskly, about 8-10 minutes until
  beans are tender but still slightly resistant to bite. Drain and run
  under cold water.
       Put the Dashi, Sugar, 1/4 t Salt, MSG, Sake and Soy Sauce into a
  pan.
   Bring to a boil. Add the beans, return to boil.  Remove from heat
  and let cool to room temperature. DRESSING: Heat Sake to likewarm
  over a high heat. Ignite Sake and let burn until the flame dies out.
  Pour Sake into a small bowl and let cool to room temperature. Add all
  ingredients and mix thoroughly. TO SERVE: Toss together the french
  beans and dressing, serve at room temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sambai-Zu  (Rice-Vinegar and Soy Dipping Sauce)
 Categories: Japanese, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Rice Vinegar
      1 tb Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Niban Dashi
  1 1/2 ts Soy Sauce
      1 pn MSG
 
  Put the vinegar, Dashi, Sugar, Soy Sauce and salt ito  a small
  saucepan and sprinkle lightly with MSG.  Bring the Sauce to boil,
  then immediately romove from heat and set aside.  Let cool to room
  temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Toriwasa (Chicken & Parsely with Horesradish Sauce)
 Categories: Japanese, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Whole Chicken Breast
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Wasabi
      1    Sheet Nori
      5 tb Sake
      1 pn MSG
      4 oz Bunch Italian Parsely
      2 tb Soy Sauce
 
  Skin and bone chicken breasts.  Cut chicken breasts horizontally into
  paper thin slices, then into shreds 1/4" wide.  Put chicken, sake,
  1/8 t salt, and a sprinkling of MSG into a small saucepan.  Bring to
  a boil. Remove from heat and let cool to room temperature.
       Put 5/8 pt water, 1/2 t salt, into as small pan.  Bring to a
  boil. Cook parsely for 1 minute.  Drain and rinse under cold water.
  TO ASSEMEBLE: Put the Wasabi paste with 2 T of soy sauce and MSG into
  a mixing bowl. Stir in chicken, liquid and parsely; mix thoroughly.
  Divide into 6 small bowls, and cover with shredded nori.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Neri Shiro Miso (White Miso Dressing)
 Categories: Japanese, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     30 oz Shiro Miso (White Miso)
    3/8 pt Sake
     10 oz Sugar
      2    Egg Yolks
 
  Put the miso, sugar,sake into a medium sized saucepan and bring to a
  boil, stirring constantly.  Reduce heat and, and simmer for 30
  minutes, stirring occaisionally.  Remove pan from heat and wuickly
  beat in 2 egg yolks, 1 at a time.  Immediately dip the bottom of the
  pan in ice water to cool rapidly. The dressing may be used in
  Nuta-ae, Nasu Karashi Sumiso-ae, or Kinome-ae.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kinome-Ae (Bamboo Shoots with Green Soy Dressing)
 Categories: Japanese, Vegetable, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10 oz Bamboo Shoots (Takenoko)
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
      1 pn MSG
           2" Square Kombu
      3 tb Neri Shiro Miso
    3/8 pt Niban Dashi
      2 ts Salt
      5 ts Sake
      4 oz Fresh Spinach leaves
    1/4 ts Kona Sansho (Pepper)
 
  IN ADVANCE: Place bamboo shoot on side, cut off base, the cut bas in
  half horizontally.  Cut the top lengthways in quarters.  Cut all
  pieces into 1/2" dice.  Bring 3/8 pt water to boil, drop in shoots,
  and return to boil. Boil uncovered for 10 minutes until tender.
  Drain and set aside.
       Put Dashi, sugar, 1/4 t salt, msg and kombu into a medium
  saucepan and bring to  a boil over high heat.  Add the bamboo shoots.
  Boil until almost all of the liquid is gone.  Remove from heat and
  set aside to cool.
       Wash the spinach leaves thoroughly and pat dry.  Grind the
  leaves into a paste, adding the rest of the salt slowly.  Add 3/8 pt
  of water to paste andtransfer to a small saucepan.  Bring to boil.
  Pour misture through a fine sieve, discard the liquid. TO SERVE: Pour
  the miso dressing into a bowl and rub the spinach paste through a
  sieve into the dressing. The stir the mixture until it turns a soft,
  delicate green. Sprinkle with a 1/4 t of Kona Sansho powder. Add the
  bamboo shoots, and stir together gently. Serve at room temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Horensho Hitashi (Spinach W/ Toasted Sesame Seeds)
 Categories: Japanese, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Sesame Seeds
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 pn MSG
  1 1/2 lb Fresh Spinach
      3 tb Niban Dashi
      1 ts Soy Sauce
 
  Bring 5/8 pt water to boil and add salt.  Gather the spinach into a
  large bouquet, place it in the saucepan, and cover tightly.  Cook for
  5 minutes until the upper leaves begin to wilt.  Immediately drain
  and plunge into cold water.  Cut away the stalks and discard.
  Squeeze the leaves dry. Cut the leavesinto 1" pieces and squeeze them
  dry again.  Set aside
       Heat a heavy fry pan until water skitters accross surface.  Add
  seeds, and warm for 3-4 minutes, shaking constantly.
       Put the dashi, sugar, soy sauce and MSG into a small saucepan,
  stir and bring to a boil over high heat.  Remove from heat and serve.
  TO SERVE: Pour sauce over the spinach and toss together to coat
  leaves. Divide into 6 bowls and sprinkle with sesame seeds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Namasu (Daikon and Carrot in Vinegar Dressing)
 Categories: Japanese, Salad, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Daikon, peeled & Shredded
  2 1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Rice Vinegar
      1 pn MSG
      1    Small Carrot, shredded
    1/4 oz Katsuobushi
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
 
  Put the Daikon, carrot, 3/8 pt water and salt into a mixing bowl, Stir
  thoroughly and set aside for 30 minutes.
    Put half of the Katsuobushi into a small pan, cook uncovered over
  low heat for 3-4 minutes, stirring constantly.  Transfer the
  Katsuobushi to a mortar and grind into a fine powder.  Shake the
  powder onto a piece of greaseproof paper through a sieve and set
  aside.
      Drain the daikon and carrot, squeeze them dry and place in a
  mixing bowl.  Add vinegar, sugar, and MSG.  Mix thoroughly and add
  katsuobushi. Serve at room temperature in small bowls
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sashimi (Sliced Raw Fish)
 Categories: Japanese, Fish
      Yield: 5 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------CHOOSE ONE (ONE PIECE------------------------
      1 lb Fresh Sea Bass Fillet
      1 lb Squid
      1 lb Turbot
      1 lb Tunny Fish
      1 lb Halibut
      1 lb Abalone
      1 lb Bream

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
      4 tb Soy Sauce -OR-
           Tosa Joyu
           Chirizu   -OR-

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           2" Secion Diakon
      1    Celery
      1    Carrot
 
  CUTTING THE FISH: There are 4 basic cuts for Sashimi. A Very sharp,
  heavy knife is a must. 1. Hara Giri (Flat Cut) Most popular cut.
  Suitable for any filleted fish. Holding the fish firmly, cut straight
  down in slices about 1/4" to 1/2" thick and 1" wide, depending on the
  size of the fillet.
  
  2.  Kaku Giri (Cubic Cut)  This style of cutting is more often used
  for tunny fish.  Cut the fish as above, the cut the slices into 1/2"
  cubes.
  
  3. Ito Zukuri (Thread Shape)  Although this technique may be used
  with any small fish, it is especially suitable for squid.  Cut the
  squid straight down into 1/4" slices, the cut lengthways into 1/4"
  wide strips.
  
  4.  Usu Zukuri (Paper Thin Slices)  Place a fillet of bass or bream
  on a flat surface and, holding the fish firmly with one hand, slice
  it at an angle into almost transparent sheets.
  
  TO SERVE: Sashimi may be composed of one fish or a variety of fish. To
  serve as part of a meal, arrange the fish attractively on individual
  serving plates. Garnish each plate with obout 1/2 teaspoon of wasabi
  and decorate with strips of daikon, carrot and/or celery. Cover with
  a sheet of plastic and refrigerate for NO MORE THAN 1 HOUR before
  serving.
      Pour the dipping sauce of your choice into tiny dishes and
  accompany each serving of Sahshimi with it's own sauce.  The wasabi
  may be mixed with soy sauce or tosa joyu to taste.  To serve as an
  hors d' oerve, arrange two or more varieties or cuts of sashimi on a
  serving dish and accompany with dipping sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Isobe Zukuri (Sashimi Wrapped in Laver)
 Categories: Fish, Japanese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 x  Sheets Nori
      1 lb Fresh fish fillet

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
      6 tb Chirizu -OR-
      6 tb Tosa Joyu
 
  IN ADVANCE Cut fish into slices 1/2" thick and 6-7" long (as lonf as a
  sheet of nori). TO ASSEMBLE AND SERVE: Pass the nori, one sheet at a
  time, over a flame to intensify it's flavor and color. Lay the nori
  flat on a hard surface (the japanese use a bamboo mat to facilitate
  rolling) with the wide side of the mat facing towards you. Place a
  long slice of fish along the length of the nori and roll the nori
  into a long, thick, tight cylinder.  Cut crosswise into 1 1/2" slices
  with a sharp knife. Roll and cut the remaining fish and nori in the
  same way.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chirizu (Spicy Dipping Sauce for Sashimi)
 Categories: Japanese, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 ts Sake
      2    Spring Onions
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Hichimi Togarashi
      4 oz Daikon
      3 tb Japanese soy sauce
      1 pn MSG
 
  Warm the sake in a small sucepan.  Ignite with a match, off the heat,
  and shake tha pan gently until the flame dies out.  Pour the sake
  into a dish and cool.  Put the sake with the grated daikon, onions,
  soy sauce, lemon juice, MSG, and the 7 pepper spice into a mixing
  bowl.  Mix well. To serve, place in small individual dishes and serve
  with sea bass, sea bream, or sashimi.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tosa Joyu (Soy-Based Dipping Sauce for Sashimi)
 Categories: Japanese, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Soy sauce
      5 ts Katsuobushi
  2 1/2 ts Sake
      1 pn MSG

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
  2 1/2 ts Wasabi
 
  Place all ingredients in a small saucepan.  Bring to a boil,
  uncovered, stirring constantly.  Remove from heat, strain, ans set
  aside to cool. Divide into serving dishes and garnish with wasabi.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Some Oroshi (White-Radish and Red-Pepper Garnish)
 Categories: Japanese, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           3" round section daikon
      6 tb Pon-su (equal soy-lemon juic
      4    Takano Tjume (Whole red pepp
      2    Spring onions, chopped
 
  Make 4 openings in the  flat side of the daikon with chopsticks or
  the tip of a knife.  Insert a red pepper deep into each opening, so
  that the tip is level with the daikon.  Set aside for at least 4
  hours.  The daikon's moisture will reconstitute the pepper and the
  pepper will have spiced the daikon.  Grate the daikon, divide into 6
  equal parts, and roll into a small ball. TO SERVE: Pour the pon-su
  (equal parts soy-sauce and lemon juice) and add a ball to each dish.
  garnish with onion and serve with sashimi.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tataki
 Categories: Japanese, Beef, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    New York strip steaks
    3/4 c  Soy sauce
    3/4 c  Sake
    1/2 c  Mirin
      2 c  Dashi
 
  Mix  together  soy sauce, sake, mirin and dashi. (Sake  and  Mirin
  wines can be bought in most liquor stores. Dashi, a base for Japanese
  soup stock,is available in most Oriental stores.) Bring to boil.Add
  steak and return to boil.Cook 3 to 5 minutes.Be careful not to
  overcook the meat;it should be rare on the inside. Remove steak,wrap
  in foil and refrigerate overnight. Continue boiling,cooking until
  liquid has reduced to a thick sauce. You can tell when it is
  done,because the sauce makes large, slow bubbles when it is ready.Be
  careful; otherwise the sauce will burn. Refrigerate overnight. To
  serve: Cut all fat from steaks. Slice in very thin slices. Arrange on
  a plate. Just before serving; pour 1 tsp. of reduced cooking sauce
  over meat. You can also garnish with a little chopped green onion.
  For an appetizer serving, allow 5 to 7 slices per person. Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Japanese Beef Stir-Fry
 Categories: Japanese, Beef, Stir fry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 oz Beef flank steak, partially
           Frozen
      1 tb Peanut or vegetable oil
      1 lg Red bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and thinly sliced,
           About 1 1/4 cups
      1 sm Onion, thinly sliced, about
           3/4 cup
      1 tb Chopped fresh gingerroot OR
      1 ts Ground ginger
      1 cl Garlic, crushed
    1/8 ts Crushed hot red pepper
     12 oz Fresh Chinese pea pods OR
      2 pk (6 oz) frozen, thawed
      1 lg Head escarole, about 1 lb.,
           Coarsely chopped, about 8
           Cups
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Light brown sugar, firmly
           Packed
 
  Using a sharp knife, held almost parallel to cutting surface,cut
  partially frozen flank steak into very thin slices. In wok or 12"
  skillet over medium high heat, heat oil; add beef; cook 2 to 3
  minutes,stirring frequently until browned. Using slotted spoon,remove
  meat to plate; keep warm. To drippings in skillet,add red bell
  pepper,onion,ginger, garlic and crushed red pepper.Cook about 4
  minutes,stirring constantly until vegetables are crisp-tender. Add
  pea pods, escarole,soy sauce and brown sugar.Cook about 1 minute,
  stirring constantly until pea pods are heated through and escarole is
  wilted. Stir beef into vegetables. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brook Trout Sauteed with Mushrooms
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Whole trout (about 1/2 lb.
           Each when cleaned) or
           12 fillets with skin
    1/4 c  Milk
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      6 lg Mushrooms, cut into
           Thin slices
      2 tb Fresh lime juice
      4 tb Finely chopped fresh
           Parsley leaves
 
   Put the trout in a dish, add the milk, and sprinkle with salt and
  pepper. Turn them several times to coat well.  Set aside.
  
   Spread the flour over a flat dish.  Remove the trout from the milk
  and dredge them in the flour.  Shake off any excess flour.
  
   Heat half of the oil in a nonstick frying pan large enough to hold 3
  trout in one layer.  Cook them over medium heat for 4 minutes on one
  side. Turn them and cook for 6 to 8 minutes, or until brown.
  Transfer the trout to a warm platter and keep them warm. Repeat the
  process using the remaining oil and fish.
  
   Meanwhile, melt 1 TB. of the butter in a frying pan over high heat.
  Add the mushroom slices and sprinkle with salt and pepper.  Saute
  them, stirring and shaking the pan, until the liquid has evaporated
  and the mushrooms are nicely browned.
  
   Arrange the mushrooms over the trout and sprinkle with the lime
  juice.
  
   Melt the remaining butter in a frying pan over high heat, shaking
  the pan, until the butter turns hazlenut brown. Pour it over the
  trout, sprinkle with the parsley, and serve immediately.
  
  The Seafood Cookbook, Classic to Contemporary, by Pierre Franey &
  Bryan Miller, Random House, NY, 1986.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan-Fried Trout Meuniere
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    10-oz trout, cleaned but
           With heads left on
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
    1/4 c  Corn or vegetable oil
      8 tb Unsalted butter
      6    Lemon slices
           Juice of 1 lemon
      4 tb Finely chopped parsley
           Leaves
 
   Place the trout in a large pan and pour in the milk.  Turn the trout
  in the milk. Spread the flour over a flat dish and season it well
  with salt and pepper.  Remove the trout from the milk and dredge them
  well in the flour, shaking off any excess flour.
  
    Heat the oil in a heavy nonstick frying pan or black steel pan over
  medium-high heat and add the trout.  Cook until golden brown, about 6
  minutes on each side. Baste often to keep the trout moist.
  
   Remove the trout to a warm platter.  Pour off the fat from the
  frying pan and wipe it clean with paper towels.  Return the pan to
  the heat and melt the butter, shaking the pan and stirring until it
  turns hazlenut brown. Do not let it burn.  Place a lemon slice atop
  each trout. Sprinkle them with the lemon juice then pour the butter
  over them. Garnish with the chopped parsley and serve immediately.
  
  The Seafood Cookbook, Classic to Contemporary, by Pierre Franey &
  Bryan Miller, Random House, NY, 1986.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Trout with Watercress Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 bn Watercress
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2    Dashes of Tabasco sauce
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper to taste
      3    Smoked trout, skinned and
           Filleted into 6 pieces
      6    Lemon wedges
      6    Watercress sprigs
 
   Wash and trim the watercress.  Pat it dry and chop it (you should
  have about 1 1/2 cups).
  
   Put the watercress in the bowl of an electric blender with the sour
  cream, lemon juice, Tabasco sauce, and salt and pepper.  Turn the
  blender on high for several seconds, or until the mixture is very
  smooth.
  
   Serve the sauce over the trout.  Garnish each serving with a lemon
  wedge and sprig of watercress. YIELD: 6 servings. (NASON'S NOTE: Try
  this sauce with leftover cooked and chilled East Lake "pink-meat"
  trout if smoked trout is not available.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hemingway's Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Green onions, chopped OR
    1/4 c  Freeze-dried chives
      1 tb Chopped parsley OR
           Dried parsley flakes
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6    Whole cleaned trout
           (each about 8 oz.)
           Seasoned salt
      6    Strips bacon
    1/2 c  Baking mix (biscuit mix)
      2 tb Yellow cornmeal
           Lemon wedges (optional)
 
   Combine green onions, parsley, lemon juice, and pepper. Sprinkle
  trout cavities with salt, then spread each with onion mixture.
  
   In a wide frying pan over medium heat, cook bacon until crisp. Remove
  bacon from pan and drain.  Leave 2 or 3 TBS. of the drippings in pan
  and reserve remaining drippings.
  
   Combine baking mix and cornmeal on a piece of wax paper.  Coat trout
  on both sides with mixture.  Arrange half the trout in pan.  Cook,
  turning once, until fish is lightly browned and flakes readily when
  prodded in thickest portion with a fork.  For a 1-inch thick fish
  (measured in thickest portion), allow 10 minutes total - 5 minutes on
  each side. (Allow same ratio of thickness to time - 1 inch: 10
  minutes - for fish of all thicknesses.)
  
   Cook remaining fish in reserved drippings.  Slip a bacon strip into
  cavity of each fish.  Garnish with lemon wedges, if desired. Serves 6.
  
  The Sunset Seafood Cookbook, by the Editors of Sunset Books and Sunset
  Magazine, Lane Publishing Co., Menlo Park, CA, 1981.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Trout in Dill Sauce
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Whole cleaned trout
           (each about 1/2 lb.)
           Basic poaching liquid
           Parsley sprigs
           Lemon wedges
      1 c  Sour cream
      4 ts Lemon juice
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dillweed

MMMMM-------------------BASIC POACHING LIQUID------------------------
      1 md Onion (sliced)
      6    Whole black peppers
      2    Whole allspice
      3 tb Lemon juice or white wine
           Vinegar
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Dry white wine (or water)
      1 qt Water
 
   About 3-4 hours before you intend to serve, poach trout in basic
  poaching liquid (recipe and directions follow).  When done, transfer
  to a serving platter and let cool; then cover and chill.
   About 10 minutes before serving time, remove cover from fish and,
  holding fish in place with wide spatula, drain off and discard any
  juices that might have collected on platter.  Wipe platter and
  garnish with parsley sprigs and lemon wedges.
   In a bowl, combine sour cream, lemon juice, salt and dill weed. Mix
  thoroughly. Serve sauce in small serving bowl to spoon over fish.
  Basic Poaching Liquid In a poaching pan or 3-quart pan, combine
  onion, whole black peppers, whole allspice, lemon juice or white wine
  vinegar, bay leaf, salt, dry white wine (or water), (you will need
  just enough to cover fish pieces, so amount of water and wine may be
  varied accordingly). Cover and simmer ingredients for at least 20
  minutes.
   Recipe may be doubled or tripled if larger amounts are needed (if so,
  simmer ingredients for 30 minutes to 1 hour).  Poaching liquid may be
  reused several times - it will simply acquire more flavor, the more
  often it is used.  However, liquid should not be stored in the
  refrigerator longer than 2 days; freeze in an airtight container if
  longer storage is necessary. How to Poach Bring poaching liquid to a
  boil in poaching pan on top of the stove. Lower fish into simmering
  liquid - there should be just enough liquid to cover fish; if not,
  add equal parts water and dry white wine (or all water) just to cover
  fish. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer gently (water should never be
  allowed to boil).
   Cook until fish flakes readily when prodded in thickest portion with
  a fork - for a 1-inch thick piece of fish (measured in thickest
  portion), allow 10 minutes from the moment simmering resumes after
  fish has been added.  (Allow same ratio of thickness to time - 1
  inch: 10 minutes - for fishes of all thicknesses.) When, done, lift
  fish from liquid with a wide spatula, supporting it with cheesecloth
  if necessary. Drain well; then open cheesecloth carefully and gently
  remove it from fish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout and Mushrooms in Cream
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 lb Small mushrooms (or large
           Mushrooms, sliced)
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
      4    Whole dressed trout (each
           About 1/2 lb.)
           All-purpose flour
    1/4    Ts salt
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
 
   In a wide frying pan, melt butter over medium-high heat; add
  mushrooms and saute, stirring frequently, until golden and brown
  (about 5 minutes). Stir in parsley, then remove pan from heat and
  lift mushrooms from pan with slotted spoon.  Arrange evenly to cover
  bottom of a large warm serving platter; keep warm.  Set pan aside.
  
   Wipe fish with damp cloth, inside cavities and outside.  Coat fish
  with flour; shake off excess.  Arrange in single layer on wax paper
  within reaching distance of range.  Return pan to medium heat; add
  salt to remaining butter.
  
   Place in pan as many fish as will fit without crowding.  Cook,
  turning once, until fish is lightly browned and flakes readily when
  prodded with a fork.  For a 1-inch fish allow 10 minutes total - 5
  minutes on each side.
  
   When fish is done, remove from pan and arrange on top of mushrooms;
  keep warm. Repeat process with remaining fish.
  
   After removing last fish, add lemon juice and cream to pan; bring to
  a boil, stirring and scraping to blend with pan drippings.  Spoon
  immediately over fish and mushrooms and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sourdough Stuffed Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Loaf sourdough or crusty
           Italian bread
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced green onions
           (including some tops)
      1 md Sized green pepper,
           Finely chopped
      3 tb Dry white wine
    1/4 c  Melted butter or margarine
      6    Whole cleaned trout (each
           About 12 inches long)
           Salt and pepper
 
   Preheat oven to 400.  Cut enough bread into 1/2 inch cubes to make 2
  cups (reserve remainder for other uses).  Spread bread cubes in
  single layer on baking sheet and bake, stirring occasionally, until
  cubes are dry and crisp (about 10 minutes). Remove from oven and pour
  into a bowl; combine with parsley, the 1/2 tsp. salt, pepper, green
  onion, and green pepper. Drizzle wine and 2 TBS. of the butter over
  bread; mix lightly.
  
   Wipe fish with damp cloth, inside cavities and outside.  Brush
  cavities with some of the remaining butter; sprinkly lightly with
  salt and pepper. Stuff cavities loosely with bread mixture, dividing
  mixture evenly among fish; skewer edges together or sew with heavy
  thread. Arrange fish side by side in a greased shallow baking pan
  (use 2 pans, if necessary, to hold all fish at once).  Drizzle any
  remaining butter evenly over tops of fish.
  
   Bake fish, uncovered, until it flakes readily when prodded in
  thickest portion with a fork.  For a 1 inch thick fish allow 10
  minutes - 5 minutes on a side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Stuffed Fish
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------HERB STUFFING FOR FISH------------------------
      1    Package herb-seasoned
           Stuffing (about 3 1/2 cups)
      1 ts Ground sage
    1/2 ts Ground thyme
    1/2 ts Ground rosemary
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Chopped parsley
    1/3 c  Melted butter
      1 c  Fish broth or chicken broth
      1 tb Dry sherry, if desired
    1/2 c  Flaked crabment or sliced
           Shrimp, if desired

MMMMM----------------------BEARNAISE SAUCE---------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 tb Hot water
      2    Egg yolks
      1 tb Tarragon vinegar
      1 ts Finely chopped shallot
           Or onion
    3/4 ts Finely chopped parsley
    1/8 ts Salt
           Paprika

MMMMM-----------------------SAUCE CHABLIS----------------------------
    1/2 c  Chablis Wine
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/2    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Salt
      6    Peppercorns
           Water
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      2    Eggs, beaten
           With 1 TB. water
 
   Allow 3/4. lb. per serving.  Baking a whole fish with the head on
  helps to seal in juices at higher elevations.  Serve baked fish as
  soon as it is taken from the oven so it will not become soggy.
  
   Preheat oven to 375.  Use fish no smaller than 3 lbs.  Have pocket
  made for stuffing.  Rub inside with salt and pepper.  Stuff
  two-thirds full with Herb Stuffing for Fish (recipe follows).  Fasten
  opening closed with skewers or picks.  Place fish on greased rack in
  open roasting pan. Brush with melted  butter or margarine, sprinkle
  with salt and seasoned pepper. Bake, basting with pan juices, until
  fish is tender and flakes easily, about 12 - 20 minutes a pound for
  fish over 5 pounds, and about 1 to 2 minutes per ounce for smaller
  fish.  Serve baked with Bearnaise Sauce or Chablis Sauce (recipes
  follow).
  
  Herb Stuffing for Fish About 4 cups Combine all ingredients. Toss
  with fork until well blended.  Put stuffing lightly into fish cavity
  or wrap fish fillets around stuffing and secure with skewer or
  toothpick.
  
  Bearnaise Sauce About 3/4 cup In top of double boiler over boiling
  water, melt butter with hot water. Stir in egg yolks. Beat with wire
  wisk or rotary beater until frothy. Stir in vinegar, shallots or
  onion, parsley, salt and paprika to taste.
   Cook, stirring constantly, just until thickened and smooth, about 8
  minutes. Remove double-boiler top from heat at once. Serve warm.
  
  Sauce Chablis In small heavy saucepan, combine Chablis wine, lemon
  juice, bay leaf, salt and peppercorns. Cook 5 minutes over low heat,
  stirring to blend. Strain sauce, adding enough water to make 1 cup.
   In separate saucepan, melt butter; stir in flour.   Add strained
  liquids. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until thickened.
  Beat a little hot sauce into beaten egg yolks, then add yolk mixture
  to saucepan. Cook over low heat, stirring vigorously, just until
  thickened - one minute or so. Serve hot. The High Altitude Cookbook,
  by Beverly A. Nemiro & Donna M. Hamilton, Random House, NY, 1969.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Baked, Broiled, or Barbecued in Foil
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Fillets, or whole small
           Pan-dressed fish
           (about 2 lbs.)
      6    Sheets heavy aluminum foil
           Salt
           Seasoned pepper
           Dried dill seed, parsley,
           Or rosemary, if desired
           Butter
      6    Lemon or lime slices
     12 tb Dry white wine
 
   Preheat oven to 400, preheat broiler, or have charcoal at cooking
  temperature in BBQ grill.
  
   Place each individual serving of fish on a sheet of foil.  Sprinkle
  with salt, seasoned pepper and dill, parsley or rosemary.  Dot
  generously with butter.  Top with slice of lemon or lime.  Pour 1 to
  2 TBS. of wine over fish.  Fold foil up around fish and seal by
  folding, allowing a little space on top of fish.
  
   Bake 20 to 30 minutes in oven, or for 15 minutes in broiler, or for
  30 minutes over glowing charcoal.  Fish will be tender and flake
  easily when done. The High Altitude Cookbook, by Beverly A. Nemiro &
  Donna M. Hamilton, Random House, NY, 1969.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------MARINADE FOR FISH--------------------------
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Cooking sherry
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 cl Crushed garlic
    1/4 c  Salad oil
 
   Brush trout with lemon juice inside and out to preserve freshness
  before refrigeration.  Place 2 trout, 10 to 12 inch fish, in shallow
  baking dish; pour marinade  over fish.  Let stand for one hour. Place
  on grill and cook until done, approx. 15 minutes.  The drained
  marinade should be used for basting during cooking.
   Use hand mixer to blend all ingredients well. The folliwng recipes
  are offerings from the Weber Go-Anywhere Grills Cookbook, Summer 1989.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Trout Luchow (2 Servings - Multiply To Serve More)
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 c  White vinegar
      2 tb Wine vinegar
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
      1 pt Water
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2    Bay leaf
      1    Clove
      2    Peppercorns
    1/4    Onion, chopped
    1/4    Carrot, chopped
    1/4    Celery heart, chopped
      1 lb Fish bones and heads
      2    Fresh brook trout
 
   Combine all the ingredients except the trout and bring to a boil.
  Lower the heat and simmer 20 minutes.  Strain the mixture through a
  cheesecloth.
   While the liquid is boiling, clean the fish.  Do not wash, and
  handle as little as possible.
   Bring the strained liquid to a boil, reduce the heat, add the trout
  and simmer, uncovered, until the trout turns blue and the fish flakes
  easily when tested with a fork, seven or eight minutes. Remove from
  the liquid and serve with boiled potatoes. The New York Times
  Cookbook, by Craig Claiborne, Harper & Row, NY, 1961.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Trout in Aspic
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Trout
           Salted Water
      4 c  Quick fish aspic
           Green onion stems and
           Hard-cooked egg whites
           (sliced thin) for decorating
 
   Cook the trout in simmering salted water for 4 to 6 minutes, or
  until the fish flakes easily when tested with a fork.  Place on a
  wire rack. Make two diagonal incisions on one side of the fish a few
  inches apaprt. Pry under the skin and peel it off, leaving the head
  and tail intact. Chill the fish.
   Spoon chilled but still-liquid aspic over fish.
   Make a flower design on the skinned portion of fish as follows:  Use
  trimmed green parts of onions as stems.  Cut the egg white slices
  with a paring knife to simulate flower petals.  Dip the decorations
  with still- liquid aspic and arrange on the fish. Chill.
   Cover with layers of aspic as desired, chilling after each layer is
  applied.  To serve, garnish the fish platter with chopped aspic and
  serve with mayonnaise.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Fish Aspic (About 1 Quart)
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Fish stock
      1 c  Tomato juice
      4    Envelopes unflavored
           Gelatin
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1 ts Sugar
      2    Eggshells, crushed
      2    Egg whites, lightly beaten
      2 tb Cognac
 
   In a saucepan combine the fish stock with the tomato juice, gelatin,
  salt, pepper, sugar, egg shells and egg whites and heat slowly,
  stirring constantly, until the mixture boils up in the pan.
   Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the cognac.
   Strain the mixture through a sieve lined with a flannel cloth that
  has been rinsed in cold water and wrung out.  If the aspic starts to
  set or becomes too firm it may be reheated, then brought to any
  desired temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brook Trout Meuniere #2
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      6    Brook trout
           Milk
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper
           Peanut oil
    2/3 c  Butter
           Lemon slices
           Chopped parsley
 
   Clean the trout, remove the fins, but leave the head and tails on.
  Dip in milk and drain well.
   Mix flour, salt, and pepper.  Roll fish in mixture.
   Heat enough peanut oil in a skillet to cover the bottom to a depth of
  about 1/4 inch.  When hot, add trout and brown well on both sides.
  When cooked, remove to a hot serving platter.
   Pour off the fat from the skillet and wipe well with paper towels.
  Add the butter and cook until it is hazelnut brown.  Pour the butter
  over the trout.  Garnish with lemon and parsley.
  
  The New York Times Menu Cook Book, by Criag Claiborne, Harper and
  Row, NY, 1966.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nike Hazelton's Spanish Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Whole trout, cleaned
    1/2    Lemon
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Soft fresh bread crumbs
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
    1/3 c  Sherry
 
   Preheat oven to moderate (350).
   Rub the trout with the lemon, then squeeze the lemon and reserve the
  juice. Season the fish with salt and pepper.
   Heat the oil.  Remove it from the heat and stir in the bread crumbs,
  garlic, and parsley.  Sprinkle half of the mixture over the bottom of
  a greased shallow baking dish.  Place the trout on top.  Sprinkle the
  fish with the remaining bread-crumb mixture.  Sprinkle with the
  reserved lemon juice.
   Bake the fish for 10 minutes, then add the sherry.  Continue to bake
  for 10 to 15 minutes, basting occasionally with the sherry.  When the
  fish is done, it should flake easily when tested with a fork. The New
  York Times Menu Cook Book, by Criag Claiborne, Harper and Row, NY,
  1966.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout with Bay Leaf
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Rainbow trout
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 cl Garlic
      1 ts Dried thyme
      6    Bay leaves
     12    Slices of bacon
      2 tb Salad oil
    1/4 c  Melted bytter
           Juice of 2 lemons
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
 
   Preheat oven to hot (400).
   Sprinkle the trout inside and outside with salt and pepper.  Crush
  the garlic and thyme together to make a paste.  Put some of the paste
  in each fish.  Place one bay leaf in the interior of each fish.
  Neatly wrap the fish in bacon, using 2 slices for each fish.
   Oil a baking dish large enough to hold all the trout and arrange
  them in it. Sprinkle with melted butter and bake for 10 to 15
  minutes, or until bacon and fish are done.  Baste the fish as they
  cook.
   Transfer the fish to a warm serving platter and sprinkle with lemon
  juice and parsley.  Serve, if desired, with buttered boiled potatoes
  sprinkled with parsley. The New York Times Menu Cook Book, by Criag
  Claiborne, Harper and Row, NY, 1966.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep-Fried Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    10-oz. trout
    1/4 c  Milk
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Flour
           Oil for deep frying
           Tartar Sauce
           Lemon wedges for garnish
 
   Using a pair of kitchen shears, cut off the fins from the back and
  sides of the trout.  Leave the head and tail intact.
   Place the trout in a large pan and add the milk, salt and pepper.
  Turn the trout in the mixture.
   Remove the trout without patting it dry and dredge on all sides in
  flour seasoned with salt and pepper.
   Heat the oil for deep frying, about 325 degrees.  Add the trout and
  fry until golden brown and cooked through, about 8 minutes.
   Remove the trout.  Drain on absorbent toweling.  Sprinkle with salt
  and serve with tartar sauce on the side and lemon wedges as garnish.
  The New New York Times Cookbook, by Craig Claiborne with Pierre
  Franey, Times Books, NY, 1975.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tartar Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Wine vinegar
      2 tb Prepared mustard, such as
           Dijon or Dusseldorf
           Few drops of Tabasco Sauce
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1 c  Light olive oil or a
           Combination of olive oil
           And vegetable oil
           Lemon juice to taste
    1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley
      3 tb Finely chopped onion
    1/4 c  Finely chopped cornichons
           Or sour pickles
      3 tb Chopped drained capers
 
   Place the yolk in a mixing bowl and add the vinegar, mustard,
  Tabasco, salt and pepper to taste.  Beat vigorously for a second or
  two with a wire whisk or electric beater.
   Start adding the oil gradually, beating continuously with the whisk
  or electric beater.  Continue beating and adding oil until all of it
  is used. Add more salt to taste if necessary, and the lemon juice.
   Add the remaining ingredients and blend well.
   Yield: about 1 1/2 cups. The New New York Times Cookbook, by Craig
  Claiborne with Pierre Franey, Times Books, NY, 1975.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Truites Au Bleu (Trout Cooked in Court Bouillon)
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    10-oz. trout
      4 qt Water
      1 c  White vinegar
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt to taste
     10    Peppercorns
           Lemon wedges
           Melted butter or
           Hollandaise Sauce
 
   Using a pair of kitchen shears, cut off the fins from the back and
  sides of the trout.  Leave the head and tail intact.
   Using a long needle such as a trussing needle, run a string through
  the eyes of the trout, then the tail.  Tie the head and tail
  together. This is simply for appearance.  When trout are freshly
  caught, they are killed and dressed and dropped into boiling water
  immediately.  These trout will curve naturally through muscle and
  nerve reaction.
   Combine the water and vinegar in a fairly wide casserole.  There
  should be enough liquid to cover the trout when they are added.  Add
  the bay leaf, salt and peppercorns.  Bring to the boil and simmer for
  10 minutes.
   Drop the trout into simmering water.  Simmer for 5 minutes.  Drain
  the trout and serve with lemon wedges and hot melted butter or
  Hollandaise Sauce. The New New York Times Cookbook, by Craig
  Claiborne with Pierre Franey, Times Books, NY, 1975.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hollandaise Sauce for Trout
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 tb Butter
      3    Egg yolks
      2 tb Cold water
           Salt to taste
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
 
   Place a skillet on the stove and add about 1/2 inch of water.  Bring
  the water to a simmer.  Have ready 1 1/2 quart saucepan.
   Place the butter in another saucepan and place it over very low heat.
   Set 1 1/2 quart saucepan in the simmering water in the skillet.
  Place the egg yolks in the saucepan.  Add the cold water, salt and 1
  tsp. lemon juice.  Start beating the egg yolks with a wire whisk,
  stirring in a back and forth circular fashion, making certain that
  the whisk covers the bottom of the saucepan so the yolks do not
  stick.  It is important that the heat beneath the saucepan be
  moderate.
   When the egg yolks become custardlike and thickened, start adding the
  melted butter.
   Continue beating, stirring constantly and vigorously, until all the
  butter is added.  Add the remaining lemon juice and cayenne.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blender Hollandaise Sauce for Trout
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      3    Egg yolks
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
           Salt to taste
           Pinch of cayenne
 
   Melt the butter and keep it hot, but do not brown.
   Put the yolks, lemon juice, salt and cayenne in the container of en
  electric blender.  Blend on low speed, gradually adding the hot butter
  until the sauce is thickened and smooth.
   About 3/4 cup. The New New York Times Cookbook, by Craig Claiborne
  with Pierre Franey, Times Books, NY, 1975.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan-Fried Trout with Sage and Almonds
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose
           Flour
    1/4 c  Sliced almonds (with
           Skins), toasted
      3 tb Dried sage leaves
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           To taste
      4    Brook trout (about 1 lb.
           Each), cleaned, heads and
           Tails left on
      6    TB peanut or olive oil
 
   Place the flour, almonds, sage, salt, and pepper in a food
  processor, and process until fine.  Sprinkle the mixture on a plate,
  and coat each trout well with it. Sprinkle the cavities of the fish
  lightly with additional salt and pepper.
   Divide the oil between 2 large skillets, and place over medium-high
  heat. Saute the trout turning once, until golden and crisp, about 10
  minutes. The New Basics Cookbook, by Julee Rosso and Sheila Lukins,
  Workman Publishing Company, Inc., NY, 1989.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poached Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 c  Water
      1 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Finely snipped chives
      2 tb Minced fresh bssil leaves
      1 tb Chopped fresh dill
      1 tb Chopped fresgh rosemary
      1 tb Chopped fresh tarragon
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           To taste
      1    Strip lemon zest, 2 inches
           By 1/2 inch
      2    Fresh brook trout (about
           12 inches each), cleaned,
           Heads and tails left on
      3 tb Unsalted butter, melted
           Lemon wedges for garnish
 
  This cooking liquid can be frozen for another use as a court bouillon
  or as a stock for poaching other fish or boiling lobster.
   In a large pot or dutch oven, bring the water, wine, herbs, spices,
  and lemon zest to a boil.  Lower the heat and simmer 10 minutes.
   Gently lower the trout into the liquid.  Simmer, partially uncovered,
  until firm to the touch, about 10 minutes (or 10 minutes per inch of
  thickness of the fish).
    Using 2 spatulas, lift each trout out and place it on a dinner
  plate.
    Blend the butter with 2 tsps. of the cooking liquid (with as much
  of the herbs as you can retrieve), and spoon over the fish.  Serve
  immediately with lemon wedges alongside.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 sm Whole fish (about 1 lb.
           Each), cleaned
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           To taste
      1    Lemon
     12    Sprigs thyme
 
   Prepare hot coals for grilling.
   Cut 3 crosswise diagonal slits, about 1/2 inch deep and 2 inches
  apart, in each side of fish; don't cut down to bone.
   Sprinkle the fish lightly with salt and pepper, and rub it into the
  slits.
   Thinly slice the lemon; place 1 slice and 1 sprig of thyme in each
  slit.
   Wrap each fish in aluminum foil.
   Grill the fish over high heat turning once, until the flesh flakes
  easily when tested with a fork, about 10 minutes.  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout with Lemon and Capers
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Fresh trout,about 10 ozs.
           Each
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Flour
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Peanut, corn or
           Vegetable oil
      1    Lemon peeled and cut into
           Very small cubes
      6 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Drained capers
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
 
   Rinse the trout inside and out in cold water and pat dry.  Using a
  pair of kitchen shears, cut off the fins.
   Put the trout in a dish and add the milk.  Turn the fish to coat
  with the liquid.
   Remove each trout and dredge in flour seasoned with salt and pepper
  to taste. Shake to remove excess.
   Heat the oil in a skillet and add the trout.  Cook over moderately
  high heat about 4 to 5 minutes or until golden brown on one side.
  Turn and cook until golden brown on the other side.  Let cook until
  the trout are cooked throughout.  As the fish cook, baste with the oi
  in the skilet. The total cooking time is about 10-15 minutes.
   Transfer the fish to a warm serving dish.  Sprinkle with the cubed
  lemon.
   Pour off the fat from the skillet and wipe it out.  Heat the butter
  until it starts to brown.  Add the capers.  Cook about 15 seconds and
  pour the butter sauce over the fish.  Serve sprinkled with chopped
  parsley. The New York Times More 60-Minute Gourmet, by Pierre Franey,
  Times Books, NY, 1981.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan-Fried Brook Trout with Bacon
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Slices of lean bacon
      4    3/4 lb. brook trout,
           Cleaned
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Crushed Triscuit cracker
           Crumbs
 
   In a large skillet cook the bacon over moderately low heat, turning
  it, until it is just crisp and transfer it to paper towels to drain.
  Dip the trout in the mlk and dredge them in the crumbs, packing the
  crumbs well onto all sides to form a thick coating.  In the fat
  remaining in the skillet saute the trout over moderate heat for 5 to
  6 minutes on each side, or until they are golden brown and just flake
  when tested, and serve them with the bacon, crumbled. The Best of
  Gourmet, 1986 Edition, Conde Nast Books, Random House, NY.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Sesame Trout
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Serving size rainbow trout
           Or other locally available
           Trout, pan-dressed
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Sesame seed
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
 
   With a sharp knife, make 3 light slashes on each side of fish,
  without cutting flesh too deep.
   In a 13" by 9" baking pan, mix lemon juice, salt and pepper.  Add
  fish and turn over to coat with marinade.  Cover; refrigerate at
  least 3 hours turning occasionally.
   In a 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, toast sesame seed until
  golden, stirring and shaking pan occasionally.  Add butter or
  margarine and heat until melted.
   Place fish on rack in broiling pan.  Drain marinade from baking pan
  into sesame seed mixture.  Preheat broiler if manufacturer directs.
   Broil fish about 5 minutes on each side, basting frequently with
  sesame seed mixture.
   Test fish for doneness with a fork.  Trout are cooked when their
  flesh flakes easily.
   With pancake turners or spatulas, lift fish carefully onto warm
  platter and spoon hot juices over it. The Good Housekeeping
  Illustrated Cookbook, Hearst Books, NY, 1980. Carving a Whole Fish
  With a sharp knife, cut the top side of fish into servings, just down
  to the bone.
   Carefully ease cooked meat away from the rib bones; lift one section
  and place it on warmed plate.  Repeat with remaining sections.
   Lift off all bones and carve the lower section in the same way. (If
  the fish is stuffed, remove stuffing after cutting top of fish and
  before removing bones to serve lower portion.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerbraten Golden Apple Meatballs
 Categories: Meatballs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Golden Delicious apples
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Soft bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onions
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 tb Oil
      1 c  Water
      3 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Packed brown sugar
    1/4 c  Crushed gingersnap
           Cookies
      1    Bay leaf
 
  Pare, core and grate apple to measure 1 cup.Mix with ground beef,
  bread crumbs,onion,egg and seasonings.Shape into balls about 1 1/2" in
  diameter.Brown on all sides in oil.Drain excess fat.Combine remaining
  ingredients;pour over meatballs and bring to boil.Core and cut
  remaining apples into wedges.Add to skillet.Reduce heat,cover, simmer
  15 to 20 minutes or until apples are tender.Remove bay leaf. Makes 6
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pseudo-Salisbury Steaks (Microwave)
 Categories: Beef, Microwave
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Beaten egg
      3 tb Fine dry bread crumbs
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 pk Brown gravy mix
    1/2 sm Onion, sliced and separated
           Into rings
      2 tb Thinly sliced celery
 
  Combine eggs,crumbs,Worcestershire sauce and dash of pepper.Add beef;
  mix well.Shape into two 1/2" thick patties.Place in a microwave safe
  10 x 6 x 2" baking dish.Cover with waxed paper.Microwave,loosely
  covered,on 100%(high) for 2 minutes,rotating baking dish a half turn
  once.Turn patties over.Cook,loosely covered,for 1 to 2 minutes more
  or until done.Remove patties,reserving drippings in dish.Keep patties
  warm.Stir gravy mix,onion,celery and dash of pepper into reserved
  drippings.Stir in 1/2 cup water.Cook,uncovered,for 3 to 4 minutes or
  until thickened and bubbly,stirring every minute.Skim off fat.Spoon
  over patties.Makes 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stroganoff Style Beef (Microwave)
 Categories: Beef, Microwave
      Yield: 2 servings
 
     12 oz Boneless beef, cut in thin,
           Bite-size strips.
      1 tb Cooking oil
    3/4 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
      1 sm Onion, sliced and separated
           Into rings
      1 sm Clove garlic,minced
    2/3 c  Water
    1/2 c  Plain yogurt
      4 ts All-purpose flour
      1 tb Tomato paste
    3/4 ts Instant beef bouillon
           Granules
           Hot cooked noodles or rice
 
  Preheat 10" microwave browning dish on 100% (HIGH) for 3 minutes. Add
  the cooking oil;swirl to coat dish.Add the beef,mushrooms,onions and
  garlic.Microwave,uncovered,for 3 to 4 minutes or until the meat is
  brown,stirring twice.Add water.Cook,covered,on MEDIUM (50% power) for
  15 to 20 minutes or until meat is tender.Skim off fat,if necessary.
  Meanwhile,in a small bowl,stir together yogurt and flour.Stir in
  tomato paste and bouillon granules.Stir mixture into meat mixture.
  Cook,uncovered,on HIGH (100% power) for 3 to 4 minutes or until
  thickened and bubbly,stirring once every minute.Serve over hot cooked
  noodles or rice.Serves 2.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ritzy Ragout (Microwave)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Microwave
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6    Slices bacon, cut crosswise
           Into eighths
  2 1/2 lb Boneless beef chuck roast,
           Cut into 3/4" cubes
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 tb Soy sauce
  1 1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/4 ts Dried basil,crushed
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      2 md Onions,cut in 8 wedges
      2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
 
  In a 3 qt. microwave safe casserole, microwave bacon, covered, on 100
  % power (HIGH) for 6 minutes. Drain off fat,reserving 2 tbsp. in
  casserole. Add beef cubes to casserole. Toss with flour, soy sauce,
  seasoned salt,basil and garlic powder.Stir in 1 1/2 cups HOT water,
  wine and onions.Cook,covered,5 minutes.Cook,uncovered,on 50% power
  (MEDIUM) for 30 minutes,stirring once.Add mushrooms.Cook,uncovered,
  35 to 45 minutes or until beef is tender,stirring once.Cover and let
  stand 10 minutes.Makes 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ants on the Hill (Chinese Style Beef)
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------BINDER--------------------------------
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Chicken soup stock, or
           Canned chicken broth

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Baking soda
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Oyster sauce
      1 ts Sesame seed oil
      1 tb Dry sherry, gin or vodka,
           Optional

MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
      1 lb Ground chuck, sirloin or
           Beef stew
      3 c  Fried cellophane noodles
      3 tb Corn, vegetable or
           Safflower oil
      1 ts Minced fresh garlic OR
      2 lg Cloves garlic, minced
      2 tb Fresh scallions OR
      1    Scallion with green top,
           Diced

MMMMM--------------------------NOODLES-------------------------------
      3 c  Oil
      2 oz Cellophane noodles
 
  Before you start:Mix binder ingredients in cup or small bowl until
  smooth.Set aside.Mix marinade ingredients together in medium bowl
  until smooth. 1. Add beef to marinade in bowl and blend well.Set
  aside. 2. Spread fried cellophane noodles evenly on serving platter.
  3. Heat skillet or wok on high for 30 seconds.Add oil and swirl to
  coat skillet for 30 seconds longer.Add garlic.Stir fry for 15
  seconds. Add beef and marinade.Stir fry for 2 minutes,until beef
  loses its pink color. 4. Add binder to beef in skillet and blend
  well.Cook 1 minute. 5. Spoon cooked beef evenly over noodles.Garnish
  with scallions sprinkled on top. Serve hot with rice and salad or
  vegetable of your choice. Yields 4 to 6 servings.
  
  Noodles: 1. Heat 3 cups of corn,vegetable or safflower oil almost to
  smoking, about 375 degrees. 2. Unwrap and drop in one package (2 oz.)
  cellophane noodles. 3. Within 3 seconds,the noodles will puff up and
  turn white and crunchy. 4. With slotted spoon or wire mesh
  strainer,turn noodles over and deep fry for several seconds. 5.
  Remove from hot oil and drain on paper towels. May be stored in a
  tightly covered container for about a week. Makes 5 cups fried
  noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Low Calorie Saucy Cubed Steak
 Categories: Beef, Low-cal/fat, Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef cubed steak
      1 cn Condensed cream of mushroom
           Soup
    1/3 c  Plain low fat yogurt
      1 tb Dry white wine
      1 cn (4 oz) sliced mushrooms,
           Drained
           Paprika
 
  Place meat in a microwave safe 12 x 7 1/2 x 2" baking dish.Cover with
  clear plastic wrap;vent by leaving a small area unsealed at edge of
  dish.Micro cook on 100% (HIGH) for 6 to 8 minutes or until
  done,turning the meat and rearranging once.Let meat
  stand,covered,while preparing sauce. For sauce,in a 2 cup microwave
  safe measure cup,stir the soup,yogurt, and wine.Stir in
  mushrooms.Cook,uncovered, for 3 to 4 minutes or until heated
  through,stirring once.Transfer the meat to a serving platter. Pour
  the sauce over.Sprinkle with paprika,if desired.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Beef with Rice Cakes
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Frozen rice cake rolls
    1/2 lb Beef steak,cut 1/2" thick
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Dry sherry
      2    Green onions,sliced
    1/2 ts Grated gingerroot
      3 tb Cooking oil
      1    Bunch bok choy, sliced
           (about 4 cups)
      1 cn (15 oz) straw mushrooms,
           Drained
      1 cn (8 oz) bamboo shoots,
           Drained
      2    Green onions, sliced
      2 tb Fresh or frozen snipped
           Chives
           Chicken broth
 
  Thaw rice cake rolls in refrigerator overnight.Let stand at room
  temperature for 2 hours before cooking.Partially freeze
  beef.Bias-slice beef across the grain into thin bite-size
  strips.Place beef in a plastic bag set in a deep bowl.Combine soy
  sauce,sherry,2 green onions and gingerroot.Pour over beef.Close
  bag.Marinate in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 hours,turning bag
  occasionally to distribute marinade.Drain well,reserving marinade.
  Bias-slice rice cake rolls into 1/4" slices.Heat 2 tbsp. of the oil
  in wok.Add bok choy,mushrooms,bamboo shoots,2 green onions and
  chives. Stir-fry 3 minutes or until bok choy is crisp-tender.Remove
  vegetables and juices from wok.Heat remaining oil in wok.Add
  beef.Stir-fry 3 minutes or until no longer pink.Remove from wok. Add
  1/4 cup chicken broth and reserved marinade to wok.Add sliced rice
  cake rolls.Stir constantly for 2 to 3 minutes or until rice cake
  slices soften,add more chicken broth as necessary to prevent rice
  cake slices from sticking together.Return beef and vegetables to
  wok.Heat through.Serve immediately.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grill Broiled Sirloin Steak
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Beef sirloin steak, cut
           1-inch thick
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  Place  steak on grill over ash-covered coals so the surface of  steak
  is 2 to 3 inches from the heat. Broil at moderate temperature. When
  one side is browned, turn,  season and finish cooking on the second
  side. Turn and season. A steak cut 1 inch thick requires 18 to 20
  minutes for rare and 20 to 25 minutes for medium.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Sesame Seeds Steak Strips with Vegetables
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame seeds
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 md Onion,chopped
    1/2 c  Green onion,chopped
      1 cl Garlic,crushed
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      3 lb Beef sirloin, cut into thin
           Strips
      2 lg Green peppers, cut into
           Squares, blanched
     20 lg Mushroom caps
     16    Cherry tomatoes
 
  For marinade,place soy sauce,sesame seeds,wine,chopped onions, garlic
  and ginger in blender jar;blend well.Place meat in a large glass or
  enamel bowl and pour marinade over.Marinate several hours or
  overnight,stirring occasionally.Just before cooking,remove meat from
  marinade and drain,reserving marinade. Thread meat on
  skewers,alternating with green pepper pieces,cherry tomatoes and
  mushroom caps.Brush with cooking oil.Grill to desired
  doneness,basting with marinade several times during cooking.Leftover
  marinade may be heated and served as a sauce at table.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Family Fare Beef Steak
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Beef top round steak, cut
           1 1/4" thick
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Oil
    1/3 c  Water
      2 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Sage
    3/4 ts Celery seed
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 cl Garlic, minced
 
  Combine lemon juice,oil,water,sugar,salt,sage,celery seed,pepper and
  garlic in small saucepan and cook slowly 10 minutes,stirring
  occasionally.Cool.Place steak in utility or plastic bag;add
  marinade,turning to coat.Cover dish or tie bag securely and marinate
  in refrigerator 6 to 8 hours or overnight,turning at least once.
  Remove steak from marinade and place on grill over ash-covered coals
  so meat is 4 to 5" from heat.Broil to rare or medium,25 to 35
  minutes, turning and brushing with marinade.Carve in thin slices and
  serve with any leftover marinade,heated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Harvest Time Pot Roast
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  3 1/2 lb Pork shoulder roast
      2 tb Oil
           Salt and pepper
  1 1/2 c  Water
      6 sm Potatoes, peeled
      6 sm Carrots, peeled and cut
           Into 2" pieces
      1 lg Onion, cut into wedges
      1 md Size acorn squash, cut in
           Half lengthwise, and then
           Seeded and cut into 3/4:
           Crosswise slices
      1 ts Chervil leaves
      2 md Size cooking apples, cut
           Into wedges
      2 ts Cider vinegar
      1 pk (3/4 ounces) gravy mix for
           Pork
 
  Brown roast in oil in heavy Dutch oven over medium heat.Sprinkle with
  salt and pepper;add water.Cook,covered,1 hour.Add potatoes,
  carrots,onion,squash and chervil;cook 25 minutes.Add apples;cook 10
  minutes.Remove meat,vegetables and apples to heated platter and keep
  warm.Add vinegar and gravy mix to 1 1/2 cups of remaining
  liquid.Simmer,stirring constantly,1 minute or until thickened.Serve
  with meat and vegetables.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Peppers #2
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Green peppers
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      2 c  Hot cooked rice
      1    8 oz. jar Cheez Whiz
           Process cheese spread
           Dash pepper
           Dash basil
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
      1 tb Margarine,melted
 
  Remove tops and seeds from peppers.Parboil 5 minutes;drain. Brown
  meat;drain.add onion;cook until tender.Stir in rice, cheese and
  seasonings;fill peppers.Place in baking dish; top with bread crumbs
  tossed with margarine.Bake @ 350 degrees 40 minutes.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crown Roast of Frank
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 lb Frankfurters
    2/3 c  Bottled real Italian
           Dressing
      1 c  Sliced celery
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
  4 1/2 c  Diced cooked potatoes
           (about 8 medium)
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Make 2 1" cross cuts through top of 1
  end of frankfurters.Thread frankfurters together through center with
  cotton twine,forming long chain.Tie ends of twine together to form
  circle of frankfurters. In large skillet,heat 1/3 cup Italian
  dressing;cook celery and onion until tender.Add potatoes,caraway seed
  and remaining dressing; cook 10 minutes,stirring occasionally or
  until heated through. In 8" round baking pan or foil-lined cookie
  sheet,stand frankfurters on uncut ends to form "crown";spoon potato
  mixture into center. Completely cover frankfurters with foil;bake 20
  minutes.Remove foil and bake additional 10 minutes or until heated
  through.Makes 8 to 10 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Spectacular
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Filet mignon
      3 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Cognac
      1 pk Frozen puff pastry
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Milk

MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 sm Onion,finely chopped
      1 lb Mushrooms,sliced

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped carrot
      2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 c  Flour
  2 1/2 c  Beef bouillon
      1 c  White wine
      1 tb Tomato paste
           Salt and pepper
 
  Prepare sauce first.Melt butter in saucepan.Add onions,carrots,
  parsley,thyme and bay leaf.Cook over low heat,stirring constantly,
  until vegetables are soft. Remove from heat and stir in flour.Return
  to heat and cook,stirring constantly,until mixture begins to
  brown.Stir in bouillon and wine; simmer for 30 minutes.Add tomato
  paste and salt and pepper to taste. Prepare stuffing next.Melt 1/2
  cup butter in large skillet.Saute onions until translucent.Add
  mushrooms.Cook over low heat until they turn dark.Cool.Preheat oven
  to 450 degrees.Rub filets with salt and pepper.Place in skillet over
  high heat with butter.Brown briefly on both sides.Flame with
  cognac.Roll puff pastry out to 1/4" thick.Cut into four equal squares
  reserving scraps for decoration.Place 1/4 of mushrooms on each
  square.Place filet on top of mushroom mixture. Bring edges
  together.Paint with egg white.Cut small leaves from pastry
  scraps;fasten to roll with egg white.Mix yolk and milk and brush
  completely.Place filets on cookie sheet.Bake 10 minutes.Reduce heat
  to 375 degrees.Bake 20 minutes more.Serve with warm sauce.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak Au Vin
 Categories: Beef, French
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 ts Olive oil
           Freshly ground pepper to
           Taste
      2    Boneless strip steaks, 1/2
           To 3/4" thick OR
      2 lg Hamburger patties
      4 tb Butter
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
  2 1/2 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Burgundy wine
      2 tb Brandy
  1 1/2 ts Chopped fresh parsley
      1 tb Chopped chives
 
  Rub oil and pepper on both sides of steaks.Heat a heavy skillet over
  high heat.Sear steaks quickly on both sides for approximately 30
  seconds.Remove from pan.Reduce heat to medium and add butter. When
  butter melts,add shallots.Saute 2 minutes.Add Worcestershire, mustard
  and salt;return steaks to pan.Cook 2 minutes per side or until
  desired doneness.Remove meat and keep warm. Add wine and
  cook,uncovered,over high heat until reduced in half. Stir in
  brandy,parsley and chives.Simmer 1 to 2 minutes and serve sauce over
  steak.A nice way to PEP up a hamburger.Makes 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak with Crab
 Categories: Beef, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Sirloin tip, sliced 1/2"
           Thick
           Unseasoned meat tenderizer
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 ts Tarragon
      6 oz Fresh, frozen or canned
           Crab meat
    1/3 c  Dry white wine
      1    Avocado
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1    Lemon, cut into wedges
 
  Cut meat into 4 serving-sized pieces.Rub meat tenderizer into both
  sides of meat.Heat 1 tbsp. of the butter in a large frying pan over
  medium-high heat.Add steaks.Sprinkle steaks with tarragon.Saute
  quickly until browned on one side,about 2 to 3 minutes,turn and brown
  other side,cooking to desired doneness.Remove to hot platter and keep
  warm. Add 1 more tbsp.butter to pan with crabmeat.Heat until hot
  through; spoon crab mixture over steaks.Add wine and remaining 1
  tbsp. butter to pan drippings and heat;stirring until blended.Spoon
  over crab and steak.Peel and slice avocado.Garnish each steak with 2
  to 3 slices. Spoon a sour cream dollop on each steak and garnish with
  lemon wedges. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Flank Steak with Mushroom Stuffing
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      2 lb Flank steak
      1 ts Dijon mustard

MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 sm Onion,chopped
      1 cn (4 oz) mushroom pieces,
           Drained, chopped
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      2 tb Chopped chives
      1 tb Tomato paste
    1/4 c  Dried bread crumbs
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika

MMMMM---------------------------GRAVY--------------------------------
      3    Strips bacon, cubed
      2 sm Onions,finely chopped
      1 c  Hot beef broth
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      2 tb Tomato catsup
 
  Lightly salt and pepper steak on both sides.Spread one side with
  mustard.Prepare stuffing.Heat oil in frying pan.Add  onion,cook 3
  minutes until lightly browned.Add mushrooms;cook 5 minutes.Stir in
  parsley,chives,tomato paste and bread crumbs.Season with salt,pepper
  and paprika. Spread stuffing on mustard side of steak.Roll up jelly
  roll fashion and tie with thread or string. Prepare gravy.Cook bacon
  in Dutch oven or heavy casserole until partially done.Add meat
  roll;brown on all sides,approximately 10 minutes.Add onions;saute 5
  minutes.Pour in beef broth;cover Dutch oven.Simmer 1 hour.Remove meat
  to preheated platter. Season pan juices with mustard.Salt and pepper
  to taste,stir in catsup.Serve gravy separately.Yield:6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Brisket
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Brisket of beef
           Salt
           Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      3 md Onions,chopped
    1/2    Green pepper
      1 cl Garlic, mashed
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes
     12    Peppercorns
           Sour salt or vinegar
           Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
 
  Brown brisket in roasting pan in oven set @ 400 degrees.When
  browned,remove from oven;salt and pepper to taste.Add bay leaf and 2
  onions. In another pot,saute remaining onion,green pepper and pressed
  garlic.Cook over low heat until glazed.Add tomato,peppercorns,
  vinegar or sour salt and sugar.Let simmer.Adjust the sweet-sour
  flavor to your taste.Add 1/2 cup of wine. Pour sauce over
  brisket.Cover tightly and roast in 250 to 300 degree oven for about 3
  hours or to suit size of roast.Do not open lid of roasting pan until
  ready to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Style Beef Kabobs
 Categories: Asian, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Water
      1 tb Sherry extract
      2 cl Garlic,minced
      1 ts Grated ginger root
  1 1/2 lb Boneless beef top sirloin
           Steak, cut 1" thick
      8    1 x 1" cubes fresh
           Pineapple
      1 sm Green pepper, cut into 8
           Pieces
 
  Combine first 6 ingredients.Cut steak into 16 1" cubes;place in
  plastic bag.Pour marinade over beef,turning to coat.Tie bag securely
  and marinate in refrigerator 6 to 8 hours or overnight. Drain
  marinade into small saucepan.Cook slowly 5 minutes.Alternately thread
  4 beef cubes,2 pineapple cubes and 2 green pepper pieces on each of 4
  12" skewers.Place kabobs on grill over ash-covered coals so surface
  of meat is 3 to 4" from heat.Boil 15 to 20 minutes,depending on
  doneness desired (rare or medium),turning and brushing with marinade
  occasionally. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Hunan Hoagies
 Categories: Chinese, Sandwich
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Beef top round steak, cut
           1" thick
      3 cl Garlic,mashed
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
    1/2 c  Dark soy sauce
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 tb Grated fresh ginger
      1    Relish recipe
      8    Hoagie rolls

MMMMM---------------------------RELISH--------------------------------
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      1 ts Sesame oil
      1 ts White wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Dark soy sauce
    1/4 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/2 c  Sliced green onions
    1/2 c  Chopped mushrooms
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped red pepper
 
  HOAGIES: Place steak in plastic bag or utility dish.Combine
  garlic,sherry, soy sauce,oil and ginger;pour over steak.Cover dish
  and marinate in refrigerator 4 to 8 hours,turning at least
  once.Meanwhile,prepare relish.Remove steak from marinade.Place on
  rack in broiler pan so surface of meat is 4" from heat;reserve
  marinade.Broil 16 to 20 minutes,turning once and basting with
  reserved marinade.Let stand 5 minutes.Meanwhile,split hoagie rolls
  and toast under broiler.Carve steak diagonally across grain into thin
  slices.Place beef in hoagie rolls;top with relish and serve.Makes 8
  servings. RELISH: Combine vegetable oil,sesame oil,vinegar,soy
  sauce,sugar and hot pepper sauce.Add green onions,mushrooms and
  peppers.Let stand 30 minutes.Yield:about 1 3/4 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Ragout Country-Style
 Categories: Soup/stew, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless beef chuck eye
           Roast, cut in 1 1/4" cubes
      2 tb Olive oil
      3 lg Onions,each cut in 8 pieces
      4 lg Cloves garlic,crushed
      1 cn (28 oz) tomatoes, drained
           And quartered
      5 tb Chopped parsley, divided
      1 ts Dried thyme leaves
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Red Burgundy wine
      1 c  Beef broth
    1/2 lb Mushrooms,quartered
      1 cn (6 oz) pitted ripe olives,
           Drained
           Hot cooked noodles
           Parsley
 
  Trim excess fat from beef cubes.Brown cubes in hot oil in Dutch oven
  over high heat(in 2 batches,if necessary).Add onions;brown lightly;add
  garlic.Stir in tomatoes,3 tbsp.parsley,thyme,salt and pepper.Add wine
  and beef broth to just cover;bring to boil.Reduce heat;cover and
  simmer 1 hour. Add mushrooms;cover and simmer 1 to 1 1/2 hours or
  until beef is tender.If desired,simmer,uncovered,last 10 minutes to
  reduce liquid. Add olives;heat through;stir in remaining
  parsley.Serve ragout with hot cooked noodles.Garnish with
  parsley.Makes 4 to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Oven Meatballs
 Categories: Meatballs
      Yield: 72 servings
 
      3    Beaten eggs
    3/4 c  Milk
      3 c  Soft bread crumbs (about
           4 1/2 slices)
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 ts Salt
      3 lb Ground beef
 
  In large mixing bowl,combine beaten eggs,milk,bread crumbs, chopped
  onion and salt;add meat and mix well.Shape into 6 dozen 1"
  balls.Place half the meatballs in 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 2 1/4" baking
  pan.Bake @ 375 degrees 25 to 30 minutes.Remove from pan; cool.Repeat
  with remaining meatballs. Place cooled meatballs on cookie
  sheet;freeze firm.Using 24 meatballs per package,wrap meatballs in
  moisture  vapor  proof material. Seal and label.Makes 6 dozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Szechwan Beef with Garlic
 Categories: Chinese, Beef, Stir fry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Full cut round steak,
           Partially frozen
      8    Dried hot red pepper pieces,
           Cayenne or Japanese

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 tb Dry vermouth
      2 tb Soy sauce
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      1 md Onion, sliced thinly
      1 md Green pepper, sliced thinly

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Water
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Chili paste with garlic
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Dry vermouth
      2 ts Toasted sesame seeds
      4 tb Peanut or vegetable oil
      3 c  Cooked rice

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      3    Green onions, chopped
    1/2 c  Beer nuts
 
  Slice beef thin across grain.Mix marinade:add beef slices.Let stand
  at room temperature 20 minutes.Mix sauce ingredients in small
  bowl;set aside.Cut ends off hot red peppers;shake out seeds.Chop
  skins into small pieces. Heat large non-stick skillet over high
  heat.Add 2 tbsp. oil;swirl to coat pan.Add chopped hot red
  peppers;stir until pepper skins turn black.Remove blackened skins
  from oil.Add beef and marinade to hot oil.Stir-fry beef until beef
  loses red color and is browned and has a satiny sheen.Remove from pan
  into large bowl. Add 1 tbsp. oil to skillet and add onion.Stir-fry 1
  to 1 1/2 minutes. Onion should be crisp-tender.Remove from pan to
  bowl with beef mixture. Add 1 tbsp. oil to skillet;stir-fry green
  pepper until bright green color,about 1 minute.Reduce heat to
  medium.Add beef-onion mixture from bowl along with sauce mixture;cook
  until sauce is thickened,about 3 minutes.Remove to serving
  bowl.Sprinkle with chopped onion and beer nuts.Serve immediately with
  rice.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili-Cheese Steaks
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Top round steak, cut 1"
           Thick
      3 tb Flour
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Shortening
      2 c  Chopped onions
      1 cn (16 oz) tomatoes
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Thin slices red and green
           Bell peppers
           Parsley
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.In cup,combine flour,salt,chili powder and
  pepper.Trim excess fat from top round steak.Cut into 6 pieces.Place on
  cutting board;sprinkle with some of the flour mixture.With meat
  mallet,pound flour mixture into meat.Turn meat over and repeat on
  other side. In 10" skillet over medium high heat,cook meat in hot
  shortening until well browned on both sides.Remove to warm platter.In
  meat drippings,cook chopped onions until browned.Stir in remaining
  flour mixture. Spoon onion and flour mixture into large,shallow
  casserole.Arrange browned steaks on top.Add tomatoes and their
  liquid.Cover and bake 1 1/2 hours or until meat is fork tender.Spoon
  off any fat drippings from casserole.Sprinkle top of steaks with
  shredded cheese.Heat 5 minutes or until cheese is melted.Makes 6
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackened Red Steaks
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Boneless sirloin beef steak
           1 to 1 1/4" thick
    1/2 ts Fresh ground peppercorns
      1 ts Salt-free seasoning
      1 ts Garlic salt
      1 tb Paprika
      2 tb Unsalted butter or
           Margarine
      2 tb Dry red wine
    1/2 c  Beef broth
    1/4 c  Chili sauce
      2 ts Browned mustard

MMMMM------------------------ONION HAIRS-----------------------------
      1 c  Small onion rings, sliced
           Paper thin (about 3 small
           Onions)
      1 ts Flour
      2 tb Unsalted butter or margarine

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Watercress
 
  Wash and pat steak dry. Coat with pepper, salt-free seasoning and
  garlic salt.Spread paprika over all.Press firmly.Melt butter or
  margarine in large fry pan.Cook steak over high heat 3 minutes on
  each side to desired doneness.Will be dark and crusty. While steak is
  cooking,toss onion with flour.Cook a few at a time in hot butter or
  margarine about 1 minute,until brown and crisp. Keep warm.Remove
  steak from pan.Drain off any fat.Deglaze pan with wine.Add
  broth,chili sauce and mustard.Cook and stir to thicken,2 to 3
  minutes.Slice steak in thin diagonal slices,cross-grain.Spread red
  sauce over bottom of serving dish.Arrange steak,slices overlapping,
  over sauce.Spread onions on top.Garnish with watercress.Makes 4
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Rhapsody in Blue En Croute
 Categories: French, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef fillets (4 oz ea)
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
      4    Frozen puff pastry shells,
           Thawed
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
  2 1/2 tb Crumbled Blue cheese
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Minced chives
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 ts Sesame seeds

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Parsley
           Green onions
           Turnips
           Carrots
 
  Cut 1 by 1/2" deep gash in top of each fillet.Brown fillets in oil,1
  minute on each side.Drain.Sprinkle with salt,pepper and paprika.Set
  aside. On lightly floured board,roll each pastry out to 8" circle.
  Brush top of each circle with egg.Reserve remainder of egg. Mash
  cheese with butter,chives and garlic.Press mixture into gash in each
  fillet.Place a fillet in center of each pastry. Bring pastry up
  around meat and pinch together at top in an attractive manner.Place
  on ungreased baking sheet.Brush with reserved egg;sprinkle with
  sesame seeds.Bake @ 400 degrees 20 minutes,until pastry is golden
  brown.Remove to platter and garnish with parsley,green onion,turnips
  and carrots cut in pretty shapes. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Dixie Veal, Ham and Cheese Rolls
 Categories: Meat, Appetizer
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 lb Veal round streak, 1/4"
           Thick
      2 cl Garlic,pressed
     12    Pieces ham, sliced thin
     12    Pieces cheese, sliced thin
           Flour for dredging
      2    Eggs, beaten
      3 tb Milk
    1/2 ts Horseradish
      1 c  Bread crumbs
    1/4 ts Poultry seasoning
      1 cn Condensed cream of mushroom
           Soup
      2 tb White wine
    1/2 c  Milk
           Sprinkle of paprika
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Pound veal with garlic into 1/8" thick.
  Cut into 12 even pieces. Top each piece of veal with thin slice of
  ham. Top each with thin slice of cheese. Roll up veal pieces with ham
  and cheese inside. Secure with toothpicks, tie with thread. Dredge
  each roll with flour. Combine eggs, milk and horseradish. Roll each
  meat roll in this egg wash. Mix bread crumbs and poultry seasoning
  together. Roll each meat roll in the bread crumbs. Place seam side
  down in baking dish. Combine and bring to boil the mushroom soup,
  white wine and milk. Pour around meat rolls. Cover baking dish. Bake
  for 1 hour. Uncover and sprinkle with paprika. Bake another 10
  minutes or until crumbs are a golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southwest Meatball Supper
 Categories: Meatballs, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 md Onion, diced, about 3/4 cup
      1 tb Chili powder
      1 lb Lean ground beef
    1/2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    16 oz. jar mild taco sauce
      1 lg Fresh, ripe tomato, cut
           Into bite-size chunks,
           About 1 cup
      1 sm Head iceberg lettuce,
           Cored and shredded, about
           4 cups
    1/4 c  Coarsely grated Monterey
           Jack cheese, optional
      1 sm Ripe avocado, peeled,
           Pitted and sliced, opt.
           Fresh basil or cilantro
           Sprigs, optional
 
  In 10" skillet,over medium high heat,heat 1 tbsp. oil;add onion and
  chili powder;cook about 5 minutes,stirring frequently until onion is
  tender and well coated with chili powder.Remove from heat; let cool
  slightly.Spoon onion into large bowl;wipe out skillet.Add ground
  beef,bread crumbs,egg and salt to onion in bowl;using hands or wooden
  spoon,blend well.Shape mixture into 1" balls. To skillet,add
  remaining 2 tbsp. oil;heat over medium high heat.Add meatballs;cook
  about 12 minutes until well browned on all sides and cooked
  through.Stir in taco sauce and tomato;bring to boil.Reduce heat to
  low;simmer 5 minutes to blend flavors.To serve: Arrange bed of
  shredded lettuce over platter.Spoon meatball mixture over lettuce;
  sprinkle with cheese,if desired.Garnish with avocado slices and basil
  spring,if desired;serve with taco chips.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Pepper Beef
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lean top or bottom round
           Of beef, about 1" thick
      1 lg Yellow bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded, and cut into strips
      1 lg Red bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded, and cut into strips
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 c  Dry red wine
      2 tb Freshly squeezed lemon
           Juice
    1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper, to
           Taste
           Fresh parsley sprigs,
           Optional
 
  Place beef,bell peppers and bay leaf in large glass or ceramic baking
  dish.In small bowl,using fork,beat wine,lemon juice,salt and pepper to
  blend;pour over beef and peppers.Refrigerate,covered, at least 6
  hours or overnight,turning beef and peppers occasionally. Heat
  broiler.Remove meat from marinade;place on broiler pan.Broil, about
  4" from heat source 4 to 6 minutes.Turn beef;add peppers to pan;broil
  3 to 4 minutes longer.Turn peppers over;broil 3 minutes longer until
  peppers are tender and beef is done to taste.To Serve: Using sharp
  heavy knife,cut beef into thin slices across the grain; arrange
  slices on serving platter.Spoon peppers around beef.Garnish with
  parsley,if desired.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nouvelle Gateau
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 oz Butter At Room Temperature,
           Plus Butter For Greasing
           The Cake Pan.
      5 oz Semisweet Chocolate
      1 c  Coffee, Reduced To 3 TBLS
  4 1/2 tb Unsifted Unbleached Flour
           (This measurement is right.
           Very little flour is used
           In this cake)
    3/4 c  Sugar
           Pinch Of Salt
    1/4 c  Rum, Meyers Preferred
      6 lg Eggs, Separated
 
  Preheat the oven to 340 degrees F and butter the cake pan.
  
  Melt the butter and chocolate over hot (Not boiling) water in a double
  boiler.  Add the coffee and whip well with a wire whisk. Remove from
  the heat and gradually whip in the flour, sugar, and slat. Whip in
  the rum. Mix in the egg yolks.
  
  Beat the egg whites until stiff but not dry, and fold into the cooled
  chocolate mixture.  Place in a water bath and bake for 1 hour and 10
  minutes.  Cake is done when a toothpick inserted in the center comes
  out clean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prawns with Walnuts
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Fresh Prawns (Shrimp) In
           The Shell (Approx. 32)
      1 lg Egg Yolk
           Salt
           Dash Of Pepper
      1 c  Cornstarch
      3 c  Vegetable Oil
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Sugar
      3 ts Water
      5 oz Sweet Walnuts (Glazed
           Walnuts Available in
           Chinese Markets)
 
  Shell, devein, and rinse prawns.  Pat dry with paper towels. Combine
  egg yolk, 1/4 tsp salt and pepper.  Mix with the cornstarch. Dip
  prawns in the batter.
  
    Heat the oil in a deep skillet or wok to 350 degrees F. Add prawns
  one by one, a few at a time and deep fry for 3 minutes. Remove with a
  strainer and drain on paper towels. Pour the oil out of the pan. Add
  mayonnaise, 1/4 tsp salt, sugar and water.  Stir well.  Add prawns
  and stir-fry for a few seconds.  Place the prawns in the center of a
  platter and surround with sweet walnuts.
  
  PREPARATION TIME:  20 Minutes COOKING TIME: 15 Minutes
  
  Editor's Note:  If you do not have a deep-fat frying thermometer,
  check the temperature of the oil by throwing in a 1-inch cube of
  bread. Bread should turn golden brown in approximately 60 seconds.
  
  From The Hong Kong Flower Lounge Restaurant.  Proprietor Alice Wong.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yogurt Walnut Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Plain Yogurt, Beaten With A
           Whisk To Stiff Peaks
      2 tb Fresh Lemon Juice
      2 cl Garlic, Minced
      2 tb Walnuts, Chopped, (Or More
           To Taste)
      1 tb Fresh Mint Or Basil,
           Chopped
           Salt
           Freshly Ground Pepper
 
  The pronounced flavor of walnuts is tamed somewhat by the acidic tang
  of fresh yogurt.  Beating the yogurt, much like whipping cream, gives
  the sauce a very special texture. Serve it with poultry, salads, cold
  poached or baked fish, or with cold steamed shrimp or lobster. While
  it can be tossed with the other ingredients, it is better when it is
  spooned onto the salads by the individual diners. Prepare this
  dressing on the same day that you plan to serve it.
  
  Beat the lemon juice into the yogurt in a medium-size bowl. Fold in
  the remaining ingredients.  Refrigerate the dressing several hours,
  beating once more just before serving.
  
    A very simple recipe that I am sure that no one would have tasted
  before. Simply a grand recipe for the next dinner party. Highly
  Recommended.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Cashews
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Appetizer
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 tb Unsalted Butter
      2 ts White Vinegar Or
           Red- Wine Vinegar
      2 ts Tabasco Sauce
      1 ts Cayenne Pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic Salt
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Unsalted Raw Cashews
 
  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
  
  Line a jelly roll pan with a sheet of aluminum foil and set aside.
  
  Place the butter, vinegar, tobasco sauce, cayenne pepper, garlic salt
  and slat in a medium -size heavy saucepan over medium heat and stir
  until the butter has melted and the seasonings are well incorporated.
  Add the cashews and toss until they are well coated with the mixture.
  
  Pour the nuts onto the prepared baking pan and spread so that they
  are in a single layer.  Bake the nuts until dark golden brown, 10 to
  15 minutes. Check the nuts after 10 minutes to make certain they are
  not browning too quickly. When the nuts are done, remove them from
  the oven and cool for 5 minutes.  Scrape the nuts and any dried
  seasonings on the bottom of the pan into a mixing bowl, Toss well.
  
  Serve the nuts warm or at room temperature. (Nuts may be made several
  days in advance and stored in glass jars or other airtight
  containers. Just the thing for football game days or other sports
  days.)
  
  As A Variation:  In addition to serving the cashews as an appetizer,
  package them in decorative glass jars or tins and give them as
  presents to good friends.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Steaks
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Lamb Steaks - Boneless
    1/4 pt Red wine
      3 tb (scant) Red Currant Jelly
      1 ts Dried Rosemary
      2 cl Garlic
           Black Pepper
      2 pt THICK Gravy.
 
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mackerel in Vinegar
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Mackerel
           Butter or oil
           Large onion
           Sugar
           Salt and pepper
           Malt vinegar
 
  Fillet the mackerel, then dry with a cloth.  Roll the fillets in
  flour and fry until golden brown, cool.
  
  Place one layer of fillets in a bowl and sprinkle liberally with salt
  and sugar.  Place another layer of mackerel on top and again sprinkle
  with salt and sugar. Continue until bowl is full or all fish are used.
  
  Peel and slice a large onion.  Place the raw onion on top of the last
  layer of fish.  Sprinkle liberally with pepper. Fill bowl with
  vinegar, cover with a lid.  Leave for two days then try the vinegar.
  If it is not to taste, add more sugar.
  
  Mackerel prepared like this will keep for a considerable time
  although not as long as pickled fish.
  
  Note.  If you are not used to buying mackerel, remember that they
  MUST be bought fresh.  They do NOT keep well in shop premises.
  
  John Burden  8:76/0
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Chicken Roman Style (From England)
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  3 1/2 lb Chicken cut into 6 serving
           Pieces
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 oz Butter
           Freshly ground black pepper
      2 oz Parma ham or smoked ham in
           One piece, finely diced
      2 cl Garlic, finely crushed
      4    Sage leaves, crumbled
      4 oz Dry white wine (Frascati?)
      4 oz Dry marsala
      1 cn (14 oz) tomatoes, chopped
      1 oz Tomato puree
 
   Method ====== Heat the oil and butter in a wide, deep frying pan and
  briskly fry the chicken pieces, turning often, until golden brown all
  over. Pour off half the fat and add the pepper, the ham, garlic and
  sage leaves. Saute for a couple of minutes. Pour in the white wine
  and the marsala, bring to the boil and bubble gently for about a
  minute, then lower the heat and continue cooking over a medium heat
  until the wine has evaporated. Add the tomatoes to the pan with the
  tomato puree and stir well to blend in all the crispy bits and pan
  juices. Check seasoning - with the Parma ham you should not need salt
  ~ and continue cooking for about 15-20 minutes, stirring occasionally
  to prevent burning, until the sauce has reduced by half. It should be
  thick and dark but not too plentiful. Transfer the chicken to a
  warmed earthenware serving dish and serve with a simple green
  vegetable or salad of mixed green leaves dressed with virgin olive
  oil and lemon juice. John Burden 2:\255/1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice Stuffing             Enough for a 15 Lb Turkey
 Categories: Rice, Side dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Butter Or Bacon Fat
      1 tb Salad Oil
      1 md Onion, Chopped
  1 1/2 c  Raw Wild Rice
      1 c  Broken Walnuts
      2 c  Chopped Celery
           The Giblets, Chopped
      1 ts Minced Parsley
      1 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Minced Sage
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly Ground Black Pepper
      4 c  Boiling Chicken Broth
 
  Melt the butter with the oil in a heavy skillet or large saucepan and
  saute the onion until soft.  Add the rice and cook, stirring often,
  until slightly colored.  Add the walnuts, cook for 5 minutes, then
  add the celery, and cook until the rice is golden. Stir in the herbs
  and seasonings and the giblets.
  
  Pour on the boiling liquid, and simmer until the liquid is absorbed,
  about 30 minutes, and the rice is just barely done.
  
  Amounts may be adjusted to the size of the bird.  This recipe should
  stuff a 15-lb turkey.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Stuffing               Enough for a 10-15 Lb Turke
 Categories: Stuffing, Side dish, Clam/oyster
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Loaf White Bread, Unsliced
    1/2 lb Butter Or Regular Margarine
      2 sm Onions, Chopped
      1    Stalk Celery, With Tops,
           Chopped
      3 tb Minced Parsley
      1 ts Fresh Thyme Leaves
      2 ts Salt
           Freshly Ground Black Pepper
      1 pt Oysters In Liquor
 
  Crumble the bread quite small.  Melt the butter in a saucepan and add
  the onions and celery; cook until the onions are soft and beginning
  to show color.  Stir in the bread crumbs, add the parsley and thyme,
  salt and pepper. Drain the oysters, reserving the liquor, and heat
  the liquor to the boiling point.  If the oysters are large, cut them
  in half, if small, use whole.  Add them to the liquor and cook until
  the edges start to curl. Drain promptly and stir the oysters into the
  bread mixture.
  
  This should stuff a 10 to 15 lb turkey.
  
  "Manna  Foods Of The Frontier" cookbook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raisin Cranberry Relish
 Categories: Relish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Tart Cooking Apple,
           Coarsely Chopped
      8 oz Whole Cranberry Sauce
    1/2 c  Seedless Golden Raisins
      2 tb Chopped Dried Apricots
      1 md Lemon, Grated Peel and
           Juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground Cinnamon
 
  Combine all of the ingredients in a large saucepan. Gradually heat to
  boiling, stirring often.  Simmer for 5 minutes then cool to room
  temperature.  Cover and refrigerate. Serve chilled.
  
  "The Sun Maid Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter-Dipped Biscuits
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 18 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
  1 1/4 c  Unbleached All Purpose
           Flour
      2 ts Sugar
      2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Milk
 
  Heat the oven to 450 degrees F.  Heat the butter in a square pan 9 X
  9 X 2-inches, in the oven until the butter is melted. Mix the flour,
  sugar, baking powder and salt in a medium bowl. Add the milk and stir
  with a fork just until a soft dough forms, about 30 strokes. Turn the
  dough out onto a well-floured cloth-covered board.  Coat the dough
  lightly with flour. Knead lightly about 10 times. Roll or pat the
  dough into an 8-inch square. With a floured butter knife, cut the
  dough into halves, then cut each half into 9 strips.  Dip each strip
  into the melted butter, coating both sides. Arrange the strips close
  together in two rows in the pan. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until
  golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with White Truffles, Olive Oil, Parmesan, and Basil
 Categories: Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Dark Green Extra Virgin
           Olive Oil
      3 tb Dark Green Extra Virgin
           Olive Oil
      1    Angel Hair Pasta For 6
           Servings
      2 tb Julienne Of Fresh Basil
           Salt
           Freshly Ground White
           Pepper
    1/4 c  Freshly Grated Reggiano
           Parmesan Cheese
      2 oz Fresh White Truffles
 
  In a large pot, bring 8 quarts of lightly salted water to a boil; add
  the 3 tablespoons of olive oil.  Add the pasta to the boiling water
  and cook until al dente, no more than two minutes; drain well.
  
    Toss the pasta with the cup of olive oil, half the basil, and salt
  and pepper to taste.  Mound the pasta in the middle of each of 6
  heated large serving plates. Sprinkle the pasta with the Parmesan
  Cheese. With a truffle shaver or swivel-bladed vegetable peeler,
  shave the truffle over each serving.  Garnish with the remaining
  basil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Chile & Oyster Chowder
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Red Potatoes, Cut Into
           1/2-inch Dice
      1 md Onion, Finely Chopped
  2 1/2 c  Fish Stock Or Clam Juice
      1 md Bay Leaf
    1/2 lb Fresh Green Chiles
      2 c  Peanut Oil
    1/2 c  Fresh Corn Kernels
     16    Shucked Oysters In Their
           Liquor
      1 lg Sweet Red Bell Pepper,
           Roasted, Peeled and Cut
           Into 1/2-inch Dice
      2 c  Half & Half
           Salt To Taste
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Fresh Marjoram, Chopped
 
  Gently boil the potatoes for about 4 minutes in salted water, rinse
  and cool.  Cook the onion with 1 cup of the stock and the bay leaf
  over low heat for 15 to 20 minutes, until cooked through, but not
  browned. Discard the bay leaf and cool. Fry the green chiles in the
  oil for about 4 to 5 minutes until the skin is blistered, but not
  blackened. Skin the chiles, remove the seeds and cut into 1/2-inch
  dice. Steam the corn in 1/4 cup of water in a covered pan for 2
  minutes or until tender.
  
    In a large pan, combine the oysters with their liquor, the remaining
  stock, and the green chiles.  Heat for 2 minutes, then add the
  potatoes, onion and red pepper, and bring to a boil. Add the half and
  half, keeping the mixture below a boil to keep the half and half from
  separating. Add the salt, corn and butter.  Pour into soup bowls and
  garnish with the marjoram.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot-Raisin Loaf
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Whole-Wheat Four
      1 c  Unbleached All-Purpose
           Flour
      1 ts Baking Soda
      2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Ground Cinnamon
      2 lg Eggs, Slightly Beaten
    1/3 c  Honey
      1 c  Lowfat Lemon Yogurt
      2 tb Canola Oil
    1/2 c  Shredded Carrots
    1/2 c  Chopped Raisins
 
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. (165 degrees C.). Grease a 9 X
  5-inch loaf pan and set it aside.  In a large bowl, stir together the
  whole wheat flour, the unbleached flour, soda, baking powder, salt,
  nutmeg, and cinnamon. In a medium bowl combine the eggs, honey,
  yogurt and oil. Add to the dry mixture and stir until well blended.
  Stir in the carrots and raisins.  Bake in the preheated oven for 45
  to 50 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in the center comes out
  clean. Cool in the pan for 10 minutes and then turn out onto a
  cooling rack to finished cooling.
  
  Each slice contains:
                                  Tot   Sat. Cal. Prot. Carb. Fib. Fat
  Fat Chol  Sodium 173 5 G 32 G 2 G 4 G 1 G 36 Mg 236 Mg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hungarian Goulash Soup with Spaetzle
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef For Stew, Cut Into
           1/2-inch Cubes.
      1 tb Shortening Or Vegetable Oil
      1 lg Onion, Chopped
      1 qt Water
    3/4 c  Grated Potato (About 1
           Large)
      1 tb Paprika (Less If Using
           Hungarian Paprika)
      1 tb Tomato Sauce Or Ketchup
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Caraway Seed (Optional)
    1/4 ts Crushed Thyme
           Pinch Of Red Pepper

MMMMM--------------------------SPAETZLE-------------------------------
      2 c  Unbleached All Purpose
           Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Brown the meat in the shortening in a large saucepan.  Add the onion
  and cook until the onion is tender.  Add the water, grated potato and
  seasonings.  Bring to a boil and simmer, covered, until the meat is
  tender. Makes 4 to 6 servings of soup. SPAETZLE: Combine the flour
  and salt; stir in the egg.  Gradually add the water until the dough
  is stiff but smooth. Place on a wet cutting board; flatten. With a
  wet knife, scrape small pieces of dough off and drop into boiling
  salted water. Cook one layer of spaetzle at a time; boiling gently 5
  to 8 minutes or until done. Remove with a perforated spoon. Serve
  with Hungarian Goulash Soup, Pea, Lentil, or Tomato soups.  It may
  also be served as a side dish, either tossed with hot melted butter
  or sauteed in butter. For variety sprinkle with toasted bread crumbs
  or grated Parmesan Cheese. Recipes From Bread & Soup Cookbook By The
  Culinary Arts Institute
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peasant Black Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  3 1/2 c  Rye Flour
    1/2 c  Unsweetened Cocoa
    1/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Caraway Seed
      2 pk Active Dry Yeast OR
      2 tb From A Bulk Jar
      1 tb Instant Coffee (Powder Or
           Crystals)
      2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Hot Water (120-130 F.)
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Dark (Blackstrap) Molasses
    1/4 c  Vegetable Oil Or Melted
           Butter
  4 1/2 c  Unbleached Or Bread Flour
 
  Thoroughly mix the rye flour, cocoa, sugar, caraway seeds, yeast,
  coffee and salt in a large mixing bowl.  Stir in the water, vinegar,
  molasses, and oil then beat until smooth. Stir in enough unbleached
  or bread flour to make a SOFT dough. Turn onto a floured surface.
  Knead until smooth and elastic, about 5 minutes.  Place in an oiled
  bowl; turn to oil the top of the dough.  Cover and let rise in a warm
  place until doubled, about 1 hour. Punch the dough down and divide in
  half. Shape each half into a ball and place in the center of 2
  greased 8-inch round cake pans. Cover and let rise until double in
  bulk, about 1 hour. Bake at 350 degrees F. for 40 to 45 minutes, or
  until done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frontier Fudge
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
     12 oz Evaporated Milk
      4 c  Sugar
     10 oz Large Marshmallows
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate,
           Chopped
     12 oz Semisweet Chocolate Chips
     12 oz Milk Chocolate, Chopped
      1 tb Pure Vanilla Extract
      2 c  Chopped Walnuts Or Pecans
 
  In 4 - 6 quart heavy metal pan, cook butter, evaporated milk and
  sugar over medium-high heat until sugar is dissolved.  Heat to
  boiling.  Turn heat to low, cover and continue boiling for 5 minutes
  without stirring.  Turn heat to warm and stir in marshmallows until
  dissolved. Add each kind of chocolate in turn, stirring until melted.
  Stir in vanilla and nuts. Pour into lightly buttered 9 x 13-inch pan.
  Let stand until firm, about 8 to 10 hours before cutting.
  
  This recipe is from The Creme de Colorado Cookbook published by the
  Junior League Of Denver, Inc.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fudge # 3
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Firmly Packed Light Brown
           Sugar
      2 c  White Sugar (Or You Can Use
           All White Sugar)
      1 c  Milk
  1 1/2 tb Butter
      2 oz Unsweetened Chocolate
 
  Old Method:
  
  Stir constantly all the time it is boiling.  Flavor with vanilla (1
  Tsp). After you take it off the stove, stir until it is almost hard,
  then pour into a buttered pan. (NOTE: This is a paraphrased recipe
  from a very old cookbook)
  
  Modern Method:
  
  Butter the sides of a 3-quart saucepan, prewarm the candy
  thermometer. Use the same ingredients as above but substitute 1 cup
  Half and Half for the milk.  Dump in the pan. Stir constantly until
  the sugar is dissolved and it comes to a boil.  Reduce the heat while
  retaining the boil and continue cooking, stirring infrequently if at
  all. When it reaches the soft ball stage, around 234 to 240 degrees
  F. (112 to 115.5 degrees C.) remove from the heat and flavor with 1
  tsp of vanilla. Do not shock immediately (NOTE: The shocking is done
  by putting the pan in a large square pan full of ice or cold water).
  However, when the fudge cools on top (hold your hand over the candy
  to check) place the pan in cool water to equalize the heat between
  the bottom and top of the pan. Stir gently, it will candy almost
  immediately; pour into a buttered 8 X 8-inch pan. SERVES 4 OR 1
  CHOCOHOLIC
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Texas Toast, Chili and Eggs
 Categories: Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Chili
           Butter
      8    Eggs, fried or poached
      8    Thick slices bread
 
  Heat chili;keep eggs warm.Spread bread slices with butter.Fry or
  grill on both sides until golden brown.To serve,spoon chili over
  bread.Drop 2 eggs on each slices.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scotch Eggs 1
 Categories: Pork, Cheese/eggs, British, Sausage
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Hard cooked eggs,peeled
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 lb Bulk pork sausage
    3/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Sage
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs,beaten
           Vegetable oil
 
  Coat each hard cooked egg with flour.Divide sausage into 8 equal
  parts.Pat one part sausage around each egg to cover.Mix bread
  crumbs,sage and salt.Dip sausage coated eggs into beaten eggs.Roll in
  bread crumb mixture.Heat oil (1 1/2 to 2") in a 3 quart saucepan to
  360 degrees. Fry eggs,4 at a time,turning occasionally,5 to 6
  minutes;drain. Serve hot or cold.Serves 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quiche Florentine
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk (15 oz) ready made pie
           Crust
      2 c  (8 oz.) Velveeta shredded
           Pasteurized Process Cheese
           Food
    1/3 c  (1 1/2 oz.) grated Parmesan
           Cheese
      1 pk (10 oz) frozen chopped
           Spinach, thawed and well
           Drained
      4    Crispy cooked bacon slices,
           Crumbled
    3/4 c  Milk
      3    Eggs,beaten
    1/4 ts Black pepper
 
  Prepare pie crust according to package directions for filled one crust
  pie,using a 9" pie plate.(Refrigerate leftover crust for later
  use.)In a large bowl,combine remaining ingredients; mix well.Pour
  into unbaked pie crust.Bake @ 350 degrees for 35 to 40 minutes or
  until knife inserted in center comes out clean. Let stand 10 minutes
  before serving.Makes 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Omelet Ole
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 c  Chopped red bell pepper
      2 tb Green onion slices
      2 tb Margarine or butter
      3    Eggs,beaten
      2 tb Milk
    1/4 lb Velveeta Mexican
           Pasteurized Process Cheese
           Spread with Jalapeno Pepper
           Cubed
 
  Saute peppers and onions in 1 tbsp. margarine or butter in a 7"
  skillet.Remove vegetables from the skillet.Melt remaining butter or
  margarine in the skillet over low heat.Add combined eggs and milk.As
  eggs set,lift edges,slightly,with a spatula to allow uncooked portion
  to flow underneath.When eggs are set but the top is still moist,place
  1/2 cup process cheese spread and 1/4 cup of the vegetables on half
  of the omelet.Slip spatula underneath,tip the skillet to loosen and
  gently fold in half.Top with the remaining process cheese spread and
  vegetables.Cover 2 to 3 minutes or until process cheese spread begins
  to melt.Total cooking time should be 10 minutes.Makes 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southwestern Egg Puff
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Velveeta Mexican
           Pasteurized Process Cheese
           Spread with Jalapeno Pepper
           Cubed
      2 c  Cottage cheese
      6    Eggs,beaten
    1/2 c  Picante sauce
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter,melted
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
      1 cn (12 oz) whole kernel corn
           With sweet peppers,drained
           Picante sauce,
           Sour cream
           Avocado slices
 
  In a large bowl,combine ingredients;mix well.Pour into a greased 12 x
  8' baking dish.Bake @ 350 degrees for 35 to 40 minutes or until golden
  brown.Top with additional picante sauce, sour cream and avocado
  slices,if desired.Makes 4 to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Huevos Rancheros #2
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Breakfast
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn (32 oz) refried beans
      1 ts Tabasco pepper sauce
      1    Dozen eggs
           Butter or margarine
    1/2 lb Shredded Monterey Jack
           Cheese
      1 pk Corn tortillas

MMMMM---------------------------SALSA--------------------------------
           Leaves from 10 sprigs
           Cilantro, minced
      2    Ripe tomatoes,chopped
      1    Jalapeno pepper, thinly
           Sliced
      2 tb Chopped onion
    1/2    Avocado, finely diced
 
  Combine all ingredients for salsa;set aside.Heat refried beans in a
  saucepan with Tabasco sauce;keep warm. Fry eggs in butter or
  margarine to desired doneness.Lay 2 tortillas on each plate.Place one
  fried egg on each tortilla.Top with refried beans,cheese and
  salsa.Serve immediately.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggs Continental
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
      1 tb Melted butter
      4    Hard cooked eggs, peeled
           And sliced
      4    Slices crisp fried bacon,
           Crumbled
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Instant dried onion
           Seasoning
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/8 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
 
  Toss together the bread crumbs and butter.Spread in the bottom of a
  glass baking dish.Place the sliced,hard cooked eggs on top of the
  crumbs. Combine the bacon,sour cream,milk and seasonings.Spread the
  mixture on top of the eggs.Top with the cheese.Bake about 15 minutes
  @ 350 degrees until hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: One Egg Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Butter,margarine or bacon
           Fat
      1 lg Egg,at room temperature
           Pinch of salt
      2 ts Cold water
           Salt and black pepper
 
  Place a 10" non stick skillet containing the bacon fat over medium
  heat until the fat is sizzling hot,but not browned.
  Meanwhile,separate the egg.Place the white on a sturdy dinner plate
  and the yolk in a small bowl.Beat the egg white with a pinch of salt
  on the plate,using a flat wire whisk,until soft peaks form. Add cold
  water to the egg yolk in the bowl.Beat it vigorously with a fork.Pour
  the beaten egg yolk over the beaten egg whites on the plate and fold
  the two together,using the whisk.Pour the egg mixture into the heated
  skillet containing the sizzling fat. Cook the egg in one piece over
  medium heat,tilting the pan or lifting the edges of the egg to allow
  the uncooked egg to spread over the pan. Do not over cook and turn
  the heat down,if the skillet is holding too much heat.Turn the egg
  once with a spatula.Season to taste with salt and black pepper.The
  omelet cooks very quickly, in a minute or so.Serve at once to one
  person. To make an egg sandwich,place the one egg omelet between two
  slices of homemade bread with or without butter,toasted or not
  toasted. For a luncheon sandwich,add a leaf of lettuce,along with a
  bit of chopped green onion,a few chopped raw or lightly sauteed
  mushrooms,sprinkling of lemon pepper and some alfalfa sprouts. Makes
  a perfect meatless sandwich.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crepe Pancakes with Filling
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 20 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
      6 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      5    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Grated orange rind,optional
      3 tb Melted butter

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 pt Cottage cheese
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Sift flour,sugar and salt;set aside.Beat eggs until thick.
  Slowly,beat in milk,butter and grated orange peel,if desired. Stir in
  flour mixture until smooth. Prepare filling:Stir together cottage
  cheese,sugar and cinnamon;set aside. Cook crepes:Heat a well seasoned
  10" cast iron skillet,add a small amount of oil or butter,if
  necessary so crepes do not stick.Tip skillet to one side,pour 1/4 cup
  batter and quickly tip skillet to opposite direction so batter
  spreads over bottom of pan.Cook 30 seconds to 1 minute or until
  golden brown and crepe peels easily off the bottom of the pan.Remove
  from pan and cool. To serve;Fill each crepe with 2 tbsp. of the
  filling, spreading evenly across one edge;roll up and serve
  immediately. Makes 20 crepes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Cranberry Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Raw cranberries, rinsed and
           With stems removed
      3 tb Orange marmalade OR
      2 tb Orange juice concentrate
      3 tb Brown sugar
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  In a 1 quart microwave safe casserole,combine the ingredients. Cover
  with wax paper,not a tight cover or cranberries will boil up and
  over.Cook on high for 3 to 5 minutes or until berries have
  popped,stirring after 2 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggnog Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Sifted flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Eggs, well beaten
      2 c  Eggnog
      6 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Chopped nutmeats, pecans or
           English walnuts
 
  Sift flour with baking powder,soda and salt.Combine eggs,eggnog and
  shortening.Add mixture to sifted dry ingredients.Mix until
  smooth.Fold in nuts.Bake waffles in a preheated waffle iron until
  steam no longer escapes from the grid.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked French Toast
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Slices form bread
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter

MMMMM-------------------CINNAMON AND SUGAR MIX------------------------
      1 tb Cinnamon
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Arrange bread on a cookie sheet.Beat eggs and mix well with milk.Pour
  milk egg mixture over the bread on cookie sheet and let stand until
  all the liquid is absorbed. Preheat oven to 375 degrees.Melt butter
  on a second non stick cookie sheet in the oven.When the butter is
  melted,remove cookie sheet from the oven.Transfer the soaked bread
  slices to the buttered cookie sheet. Return to oven and bake bread
  until lightly browned,about 30 minutes.Dredge French toast with
  cinnamon and sugar mix.Serve hot with Better Bacon and fresh fruits.
  
  Better Bacon: Place bacon slices on a cookie sheet in a single
  layer.Bake until half done @ 350 degrees.Remove pan from the
  oven.Drain the bacon on a paper towel.Scrape cooked out fat from
  cookie sheet with a spatula and discard.Return bacon,top side down,to
  cookie sheet. Sprinkle bacon very lightly with brown sugar or drizzle
  with maple syrup or honey.Return pan to the oven.Bake bacon until
  crisp and done.Drain again on paper toweling.Serve with baked French
  toast.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Whole Wheat Crepes
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Low fat milk
    3/4 c  Whole wheat flour
      3    Eggs
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
           Oil
  1 1/2 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
      1 cn (16 oz) apricot halves,
           Drained
           Vanilla yogurt
 
  Combine milk,flour,eggs,butter and cinnamon in a blender or food
  processor.Process until smooth.Cover and refrigerate at least one
  hour or until mixture is consistency of heavy cream. Lightly brush
  bottom and sides of a 7" skillet with oil.Heat skillet,briefly,over
  medium low heat.Pour in a scant 1/4 cup batter.Tip skillet to coat
  the bottom with batter.Cook crepe until top is set and the underside
  is lightly browned,about 2 to 3 minutes.Turn crepe with a metal
  spatula and cook other side about 1 minute.Slip crepe onto wax paper
  and repeat with remaining batter,stacking each crepe between wax
  paper.Set aside. Combine orange juice and cornstarch in a medium
  saucepan.Heat to boiling.Boil mixture 1 minute,stirring
  constantly,until it is thick and clear.Stir in raisins and
  walnuts.Remove from heat and stir in apricots.Spoon small amount of
  hot filling down center of each crepe.Fold crepe over filling.Garnish
  with a dollop of vanilla yogurt.Makes 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Quiche
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------QUICHE--------------------------------
     10    Eggs
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 lb Large curd cottage cheese
      1 lb Monterey Jack cheese
      1    Stick (1/2 cup) butter,
           Melted, cooled

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 lg Onions (or assorted
           Vegetables)
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds
      1 tb Butter
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees.Mix quiche ingredients together to mix
  thoroughly.Set aside. Saute onions,vegetables and caraway seeds in a
  fry pan with butter.Place sauted ingredients with egg mixture;mix
  well. Grease a 9 x 13" baking pan.Add quiche mixture to pan.Bake in a
  400 degree oven for 15 minutes to set quiche;reduce oven temperature
  to 350 degrees,continue baking for 30 minutes longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sensational Scrambled Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      6    Eggs,beaten
    1/4 lb Velveeta Pasteurized
           Process Cheese Spread,
           Cubed
 
  Melt butter or margarine in a skillet over low heat.Add eggs and
  cheese.Cook,slowly,stirring,occasionally,until eggs are set and
  cheese is melted.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Cross Frittata
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2    Red bell pepper, cut into
           8 lengthwise strips
    1/2    Green bell pepper,chopped
    1/2 c  (1/4" slices) zucchini
      1    Green onion,thinly sliced
      1 ts Olive oil
    1/2 ts Basil leaves
      1 c  Shredded Provolone cheese
           Muenster or Mozzarella
           Cheese,divided use
    1/2 c  Milk
      4    Eggs
           Salt free seasoning, such
           As Parsley Patch
 
  Place red bell pepper strips,chopped green bell pepper,zucchini
  onion,olive oil and basil in a 9" pie plate.Cover with vented plastic
  wrap and microwave on high for 2 to 3 minutes.Remove red bell pepper
  strips;set aside.Sprinkle half the cheese over vegetables in pie
  plate;set remaining cheese aside. Measure milk into a 4 cup glass
  measure.Microwave on high for 1 minute or until hot.Beat eggs into
  milk and pour over vegetables in pie plate.Sprinkle with remaining
  cheese.Using red bell pepper strips,form four "X" on top of
  frittata.Sprinkle with salt free seasoning. Rotating twice during
  cooking,microwave on 70 percent (medium high) for 8 to 10 minutes or
  until center is set.Makes 4 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Brunch Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Onion, cut in half and
           Thinly sliced
      1    Green bell pepper,
           Julienned
      2    Ribs celery,julienned
      2 cl Garlic,thinly sliced
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 cn (16 oz) tomatoes,including
           Liquid
      1 c  Tomato juice
      4 ts Worcestershire sauce
      4 ts Louisiana red hot sauce
      2 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      4    English muffins, split in
           Half
      8    Hard cooked eggs, sliced
 
  Place onion,bell pepper,celery,garlic,bay leaf and butter in a 2 quart
  glass measure.Cover with vented plastic wrap.Microwave on high for 5
  minutes. Drain liquid from tomatoes into a small bowl;set
  aside.Coarsely chop tomatoes and add to vegetables in glass
  measure.Add tomato juice,Worcestershire sauce,hot sauce and
  paprika;stir well.Cover again and microwave on high for 5
  minutes.Remove bay leaf. Using a small wire whisk,blend cornstarch
  into reserved tomato liquid.Stir mixture into heated sauce.Cover
  again.Stirring midway through cooking,microwave on high for 5 to 6
  minutes or until sauce is bubbly hot and thickened. Toast muffins and
  top with sliced eggs.Top with sauce;serve immediately.Makes 4
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quiche Lorraine
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Slices thick bacon
      3 lg Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pinch of black pepper and
           Nutmeg
      2 tb Butter
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.Slice bacon into 1/4" pieces.Brown in a
  frying pan;drain.Sprinkle in bottom of a pastry shell.Beat eggs,cream
  and seasonings in a bowl to blend.Just before baking, pour cream
  mixture into pastry shell,filling to within 1/8" of the top.Cut
  butter into bits and spread over cream mixture.Bake @ 375 degrees in
  the upper 1/3 of the oven for 25 to 30 minutes until quiche has
  puffed and is browned;check with a knife or toothpick.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Howard Johnson Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 pt Milk
      4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Melted butter or margarine
           Flour
 
  Combine all ingredients;mix well.Add flour as necessary to thicken.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Zucchini, shredded (about
           2 to 3 small zucchini)
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
    1/2 sm Or medium onion,grated
           Lots black pepper, freshly
           Grated
      1 ts Dill
    1/2 ts Salt (I use garlic and
           Seasoned salt.)
           Sour cream
 
  In a heated skillet filmed with oil,drop mixture by spoonful, 3 at a
  time.You may need to spread them out a little with your spoon.When
  golden,turn and flatten down a bit,if they rise.The smell of the
  dill,onion,and Parmesan cheese sends my spouse into a feeding
  frenzy.Serve with sour cream,if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Crepes
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Corn oil
    1/3 c  Whole wheat flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Whole wheat flour
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 tb Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Cooked mushrooms
    1/2 c  Swiss cheese,grated
    1/2 c  Cooked chicken
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley,chopped
 
  Combine all ingredients in a bowl.Drop by tablespoon onto a oiled hot
  skillet or crepe pan.Do not over crowd because mixture spreads
  widely.After 1 minute,turn and cook the other side until golden.Stack
  crepes until ready for filling.
  
  Filling:
  
  Melt butter in a medium size saucepan.Add flour and stir for 1
  minute.Then add broth,milk and wine.Blend until smooth. In a separate
  bowl,combine the remaining ingredients and stir into sauce. To
  assemble crepes,place 1/3 cup of filling into center of each
  crepe.Roll into a tube shape and turn ends under.Serve hot.Makes 4
  filled crepes with 9 grams of protein each.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Western Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 lg Eggs
    1/4 ts Black pepper
           Salt
      1 sm Onion
      1 md Sized green bell pepper
      1 pk (4 oz) sliced ham
      1 pk (8 oz) mushrooms
      2 lg Tomatoes
           Salad oil
           Parsley sprigs for garnish
 
  In a bowl,with a wire whisk or fork,beat eggs,black pepper,1/3 cup
  water and 1/2 tsp. salt until blended.Dice onion,green bell pepper
  and ham.Cut each mushroom in half.Cut tomatoes into wedges. In a 12"
  skillet over medium high heat,in 1 tbsp. hot salad oil cook
  onion,green bell pepper and 1/4 tsp. salt until tender.Add ham and
  heat through.Remove to small bowl;keep warm.In same skillet,in 1
  tbsp. hot oil,cook mushrooms until golden.Remove to another bowl;keep
  warm. In the same skillet over medium heat,heat 2 tbsp. salad oil.
  Pour egg mixture into skillet;cook until set around edges.With metal
  spatula,gently,lift edge as it sets,tilting to allow uncooked portion
  to run under the omelet.Shake skillet, occasionally,to keep omelet
  moving freely in the pan.When omelet is set but still moist,spoon ham
  mixture over half the omelet. Tilt skillet and,with spatula,fold
  omelet in half;slide onto heated platter.Top with mushrooms.Garnish
  platter with parsley sprigs and tomato wedges.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swedish Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1    Egg
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Butter,melted
           Lingonberry jam
           Dairy sour cream
 
  Over medium heat,preheat platter pan(cast iron or cast aluminum
  Swedish pan with shallow,round indentations for making thin pancakes
  about 3" in diameter).In large bowl,beat egg;stir in
  milk,salt,flour,baking powder and sugar until batter is smooth. Stir
  in melted butter.Grease cups in hot pan with shortening or
  butter.Spoon 2 rounded tablespoons batter into each greased cup. Cook
  about 1 minute on each side or until golden brown.Serve immediately
  with jam or jelly and sour cream.Makes 20 pancakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Maple Bacon Oven Pancake
 Categories: Breakfast, Microwave, Pancakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Bisquick baking mix
  1 1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar or process
           American cheese
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Maple flavored syrup
      1 tb Sugar
      2    Eggs
     12    Slices bacon (about 1/2
           Pound) crisply cooked and
           Crumbled
 
  Grease and flour microwaveable pie plate,10 X 1 1/2".Beat baking
  mix,1/2 cup of the cheese,the milk,syrup,sugar and eggs with wire
  whisk or hand beater until only small lumps remain;pour into pie
  plate.Place pie plate on inverted microwaveable dinner plate in
  microwave oven.Microwave uncovered on high(100%),rotating pie plate
  1/4 turn every 2 minutes,until most of top no  longer appears
  doughy,5 1/2 to 7 1/2 minutes.Sprinkle with remaining cheese and the
  bacon.Microwave uncovered on inverted plate just until cheese is
  melted,1 to 1 1/2 minutes longer.Serve with maple flavored syrup if
  desired.Makes 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Toasted French Bread with Pistachio Butter
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
      4 tb Finely chopped shelled
           Natural pistachios,
           Divided
      1 tb Lemon or lime juice
    1/2 ts Each oregano, crushed, and
           Pepper
           Dash garlic powder
      1    Loaf French bread
 
  Combine butter, 2 tbsp. pistachios,lemon juice and seasonings. Halve
  bread lengthwise;spread both cut surfaces with butter
  mixture.Sprinkle with remaining pistachios.Broil 5" from heat until
  bread is hot and top is lightly browned.Slice and serve.Makes 6 to 8
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange French Toast
 Categories: Bread, Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Eggs
    3/4 c  Orange juice
      1 tb Orange liqueur,optional
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Loaf Italian bread, cut
           Into 1/2" slices
      3 tb Confectioners sugar
      3 tb Brown sugar
      4 ts Butter or margarine
 
  Beat together eggs,orange juice,orange liqueur,2 tbsp. confectioners
  sugar and vanilla.Place bread slices in one layer in a large roasting
  or baking pan.Pour egg mixture over slices.Turn to soak.Place in
  refrigerator for at least 2 hours,turn bread slices occasionally.On a
  plate,combine confectioners sugar and brown sugar.Preheat electric
  skillet to 375 degrees.Melt butter and set aside.Remove bread slices
  from egg mixture.Place in skillet.Cook French Toast about 3 to 5
  minutes on each side or until golden brown.Add more butter to
  skillet, if necessary.Toss slices in sugar mixture and serve
  immediately.Makes 4 to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Buttermilk Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      2    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 c  Melted butter or margarine
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 tb Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Sliced strawberries, fresh
           OR frozen (thawed and
           Drained)
    1/2 c  Melted butter or margarine
 
  Beat eggs.Add buttermilk,baking soda and melted butter.Stir in flour,
  sugar,baking powder and salt.Fold in strawberries.Preheat electric
  skillet to 350 degrees.Lightly,brush surface with butter.Pour 2 tbsp.
  batter for each pancake into skillet.Cool until bubbles form on the
  surface and edges are dry.Turn and cook 1 to 2 minutes or until done.
  Makes 30 - 2" pancakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oatmeal Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Quick cooking OR
  1 1/2 c  Old fashioned rolled oats
      1 tb Whole wheat flour
      1 tb Baking powder
  1 1/2 c  Skim milk
      2    Egg whites
      1 tb Vegetable oil
 
  In blender,process dry ingredients until oat flakes are fine;
  transfer to medium bowl.Mix liquid ingredients lightly in small
  bowl;add to dry ingredients.Stir only until dry ingredients are
  moistened.Let stand 5 minutes.Preheat griddle.Bake on hot griddle,
  turning with spatula when edges get firm.Makes 10 medium pancakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shirred Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
           Salt and pepper to taste
      8    Eggs
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.Spoon 1/2 tbsp. butter,1 tbsp. cream,
  salt and pepper into 8 ramekins.If ramekins are large enough for 2
  eggs,double the amounts in each ramekin.Place ramekins in a water
  bath.Heat on top of stove until butter has melted.Break 1 or 2 eggs
  into each ramekin.Bring water bath to boil,then bake eggs in water
  bath in oven 7 to 10 minutes until whites are almost set;eggs will
  continue cooking in hot ramekins after removed from oven.Whites
  should be just set and yolks still soft when ready to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Go - Rounds
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sour half and half
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dried dill weed
     10    Hard cooked eggs,chopped
      1 c  Crumbled crisp - cooked
           Bacon, about 10 slices
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions with
           Tops
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      6    English muffins,split
    3/4 c  (3 oz.) shredded Cheddar
           Cheese
 
  Blend together half and half,1 egg and seasonings.Stir in remaining
  ingredients except muffins and cheese.Spread each muffin half with
  1/3 cup of egg salad.Top each with 1 tbsp. cheese.Broil about 6" from
  heat until cheese melts,about 2 to 3 minutes.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Make - Ahead French Toast
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     12    Eggs
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Lemon rind
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      8    Slices bread, cut on the
           Diagonal
 
  Grease 9 x 13" shallow baking dish;set aside.In large bowl,beat
  together all ingredients except bread.Arrange bread slices so they
  overlap.Pour egg mixture over bread.Cover;refrigerate overnight. When
  ready to serve,preheat oven to 350 degrees.Bake for 30 to 35
  minutes,until golden and fluffy.Serve with hot syrup or jam.Makes 8
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Blintzes
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 30 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 lb Dry cottage cheese
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Melted butter

MMMMM--------------------------WRAPPERS-------------------------------
      4    Eggs
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Melted butter
      2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Water
 
  Blend filling ingredients together.For Wrappers,beat eggs well;add
  combined salt and flour;add butter.Add milk and water,gradually,
  while beating to a smooth batter.Lightly grease a 7" non stick
  skillet pour in about 3 tbsp. batter,tilting pan from side to side so
  batter covers bottom.Fry lightly on one side until edges start to
  curl.Turn out on dish towel and cool. Place filling on center top of
  browned side of wrapper.Fold pancake in on each side and roll
  closed.To serve,saute in buttered skillet until brown on all
  sides.Serve with sour cream and preserves.Makes about 30
  blintzes.Note:Blintzes can be frozen before last step.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Cooked rice
      3    Eggs, separated
      4 tb Butter
    1/4 ts Paprika
      4 tb All-purpose flour
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Dry mustard
      2 c  Milk
      4 tb Grated cheese
 
  Cook rice until tender.Rinse with hot and cold water.Make a sauce of
  butter,flour,and milk.Cook,until thickened.Beat egg yolks.Add
  rice,sauce,seasonings and cheese.Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.Pour mixture into a greased shallow pan.
  Bake @ 350 degrees,35 to 40 minutes.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Welsh Rarebit
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
           A few grains cayenne pepper
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 lb Soft cheese,grated or cut
           In small pieces
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
      1    Egg
 
  Melt butter on medium high heat.Add the cheese and seasonings.Cook on
  low heat.As cheese melts,add the milk,gradually,stirring constantly
  Then add the slightly beaten egg.Cook until thickened,about 2
  minutes. Two tbsp. tomato soup added just before serving gives a nice
  color. Serve on toast squares or toasted crackers.Serves 4 to 5.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Foamy Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Eggs
           Pinch of pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb Milk
      1 tb Butter
 
  Beat yolks of eggs;add seasonings and milk.Beat whites until stiff,
  but not dry.Place skillet on large burner,add butter,set to medium
  high heat.Just as soon as butter is melted,lower to low heat.Have
  bottom and sides of skillet well greased.Fold the stiffly beaten egg
  whites into yolk mixture.By this time,the pan should be very hot.Pour
  in omelet,spread evenly,and cook slowly until omelet is
  set.Then,place omelet in oven,which has been preheated to 375 degrees
  to dry slightly on top.Turn out and serve at once.Finely minced
  ham,grated cheese or finely chopped parsley may be folded into
  mixture,if desired.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Eggs in Hash Nests
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Microwave
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 cn (15 oz) corned beef hash
      3    Eggs
 
  Spoon corned beef hash in 1/2 of microwave safe dish or pan.Press hash
  against bottom and sides of pan.Microwave on high for 2 1/2 to 3 1/2
  minutes or until hot.Rotate once during cooking.Make 3 deep
  indentations in hash with back of spoon.Break eggs,one at a time,and
  add to each indentation.Cover dish with vented plastic wrap.Program
  microwave oven to medium high (70%) and cook for 2 to 3 minutes or
  until eggs are almost set.Rotate pan once during cooking.Let stand
  covered for 2 minutes.Season with salt and pepper.Serves 3.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Egg Dish
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      8    Eggs
      2 c  Milk
    2/3 lb Velveeta cheese, cut in
           1/2" cubes
      8    Slices buttered bread, cut
           In 1/2" cubes
      2 c  Ham, cut in 1/2" cubes
           Salt,
           Pepper to taste
 
  Beat eggs;add milk and remaining ingredients.Pour into 9 x 13"
  buttered pan.Cover;refrigerate overnight.In the
  morning,bake,uncovered, @ 350 degrees about 45 minutes.It should
  bubble and be golden brown. Serves 8 to 10.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Corn Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Blue corn as used for
           Tortillas
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 tb Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      2 lg Eggs, separated
      6 tb Melted butter or margarine
           Butter
           Maple syrup
 
  In a bowl,mix cornmeal,flour,sugar,baking powder,soda and salt. In
  another bowl,mix butter with egg yolks and 1/4 cup of melted
  butter.Pour liquids into dry mixture,stirring to moisten well.Whip
  egg whites until they hold stiff peaks;fold into batter.Bake in a
  preheated waffle iron set on medium high heat or in an electric one
  set at medium high (375 degrees).Brush grids with melted butter; half
  fill with batter,spreading slightly.Close iron;bake until waffle is
  golden brown,5 to 6 minutes.Serve hot with butter and syrup.Makes
  about 4 waffles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingerbread Waffles with Peach Sauce
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Buttermilk baking mix (such
           As Bisquick)
      1 c  Milk
      1    Egg
    1/3 c  Molasses
    1/4 c  Packed light brown sugar
      1 ts Ginger
    3/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      1 cn (16 oz) sliced Cling
           Peaches in heavy syrup
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Combine baking mix,milk,egg,molasses,sugar,ginger,cinnamon and
  nutmeg.Pour 1/2 cup of batter in preheated waffle iron.Texture of
  finished waffle will be cake-like;it is not intended to be crisp. Do
  not overbake because waffle will burn.Repeat with remaining batter.
  To make Peach Sauce:Drain liquid from peaches into a 4 cup glass
  measure.Stir in cornstarch mixed with lemon juice.Heat on medium
  until mixture thickens.Cut peach slices into pieces and add to sauce.
  Serve over waffles. Makes about 6 waffles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Casserole
 Categories: Pork, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Pork sausage (bulk)
      9    Eggs
      3 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Dry mustard
      1 ts Salt
      4    Slices white bread, cubed
           In 1/4" squares
      2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
 
  Brown sausage and crumble.Drain well. Mix
  eggs,milk,mustard,salt,cheese Pour over bread in greased 9 x 13 pan
  Cover - let sit overnight Uncover - bake @ 350 degrees for 1 to 1 1/2
  hours
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Brunch Casserole
 Categories: Pork, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Sausage
     13 oz Can Pet Evaporated milk
  1 1/2    Slices bread,cubed
      5    Eggs
      2 c  Cheddar cheese,grated
           Salt and pepper to taste.
 
  Prepare evening before.Cook sausage & drain thoroughly on paper
  towels.Beat the eggs & evaporated milk slightly.Add sausage,cubed
  bread & cheddar cheese.Pour into 9 x 9" casserole.Cover with
  foil.Refrigerate overnight.Bake uncovered for 45 minutes or until
  firm in a preheated 350 degree oven. Onions,green peppers & mushrooms
  can also be added.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggs Sofrito
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn (16 oz) tomatoes,cut up
      1 md Onion,chopped (1/2 cup)
      2 cl Garlic,minced
      1    Bay leaf
    1/3 ts Pepper
      1 c  Frozen peas
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Sliced smoked sausage OR
           Fully cooked ham cut into
           Bite - sized strips
      1    2 oz. jar sliced pimento,
           Drained
 
  In a 10 " skillet combine the UNDRAINED tomatoes,onion, garlic,bay
  leaf and pepper.Bring to boiling.Boil,uncovered, 8 to 10 minutes or
  until most of the liquid is evaporated and onion is tender.Discard
  bay leaf.Stir peas into tomato mixture.Break eggs into tomato
  mixture,being careful not to break yolks.Arrange sausage or ham
  around eggs.Sprinkle pimento over all.Cover;simmer over low heat 10
  to 12 minutes or until eggs are of desired doneness.Serve from
  skillet. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham Quiche (Microwave)
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------CORNMEAL QUICHE SHELLS------------------------
    1/3 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
      1 tb Finely chopped green onion
           (with top)
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
      6    Drops red pepper sauce
      2 tb Finely chopped, fully
           Cooked smoked ham
 
  Cornmeal Quiche Shells:
  
  Mix 1/3 - cup all-purpose flour,1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon cornmeal
  and 1/3 teaspoon salt;cut 1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons shortening
  thoroughly.Sprinkle in 5 - 6 teaspoons water,tossing with fork until
  all flour is moistened and pastry cleans side of bowl.Gather pastry
  into ball.Divide into halves.Press each half firmly against bottom
  and side of 2 10 ounce quiche dishes or custard cups.Prick bottom and
  side thoroughly with fork.Place dishes on inverted saucers in
  microwave oven.Microwave uncovered on high (550 watts) 2
  minutes;rotate dishes 1/2 turn.Prick any bubbles with fork. Microwave
  uncovered until pastry appears dry and flaky, 1 1/2 to 3 minutes.
  Sprinkle cheese and onion in shells.Beat eggs,milk,salt and pepper
  sauce with fork in 2 - cup measures;stir in ham. Microwave uncovered
  on medium heat (385 watts) until warm, 2 to 3 minutes,stirring after
  1 minute.Stir;pour into shells Place shells on inverted saucers in
  microwave oven. Microwave uncovered on medium high (385 watts) 2
  minutes; turn dishes 1/2 turn.Microwave uncovered until center is
  almost set,2 to 3 minutes.Serves 2.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Eggs in Tomato Shells
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Sized tomatoes
           Salt
      1 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Tarragon leaves,crushed
    1/3 ts Ground black pepper
      6    Eggs
  1 1/2 tb Soft bread crumbs
      2 ts Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 ts Parsley flakes
      1 ts Butter or margarine
 
  Hold tomatoes at room temperature until fully ripe. Preheat oven to
  350 degrees.Cut a thin slice from the stem end of each tomato.Scoop
  out pulp (use in stews,soups,etc.).Sprinkle inside of tomato shells
  lightly with salt;invert on board to drain,about 10 minutes.Combine
  onion powder,tarragon,1/8 teaspoon salt and black pepper;blend
  well.Sprinkle each shell with about 1/2 teaspoon seasoning
  mixture.Break one egg into each tomato.Place on buttered baking
  pan.Bake until eggs are firm,25 to 30 minutes.Combine bread
  crumbs,cheese and parsley. Sprinkle around outer edge of each
  tomato,Dot with butter. Place under a preheated hot broiler until
  crumbs are lightly browned,1 to 2 minutes.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Egg and Tomato Benedict
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Sized tomatoes
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 ts Basil leaves,crushed
   1/16 ts Ground black pepper
      4    English muffins, split and
           Toasted
           Salt
      8    Eggs, poached and well
           Drained
 
  Hold tomatoes at room temperature until fully ripe.Cut each tomato
  into 4 slices;set aside.In a small saucepan,combine
  mayonnaise,milk,lemon juice,basil and black pepper;heat until
  hot;keep warm.On each English muffin half arrange a tomato
  slice;sprinkle lightly with salt,top with a poached egg;cover with
  mayonnaise sauce.Serve two for each portion.Garnish with parsley if
  desired.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Big Swedish Pancake
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Warmed honey
  2 1/2 c  Whole milk
    1/2 c  Unbleached flour
    1/4 c  Whole-wheat flour
      5    Eggs
 
     Heat a casserole dish that is 9 inches in diameter, then melt
  butter and coat the bottom and sides of the dish with it. Mix honey
  with milk and stir into flour.  Beat eggs until very light and stir
  into flour mixture until well blended.  Pour into casserole dish and
  bake in a preheated-heated 375-degree oven until puffed and browned
  (30 to 35 minutes). Serve with fruit preserves or syrup.  Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    2/3 c  Unbleached flour
    1/2 c  Whole-wheat flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/3 c  Milk
      2 tb Oil
      1 md Ripe banana, finely chopped
 
   Combine flours,baking powder and salt in a mixing bowl. Mix together
  milk and oil and stir into dry mixture just enough to moisten all
  ingredients,then fold in banana.Spoon onto a hot,well greased
  griddle.Turn once.Makes 10 to 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Almond Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Each, whole-wheat,
           Unbleached flour
      1 tb Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs, separated
      4 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Each, buttermilk, apple
           Juice
    1/4 c  Chopped almonds
 
   Combine flour,sugar,baking powder and salt in a mixing bowl. Beat egg
  yolks with oil,buttermilk and apple juice.Stir into flour mixture
  with nuts until all ingredients are moistened (do not over stir).Beat
  egg whites until stiff and fold into batter. Spoon onto a hot,greased
  griddle and turn once  when  bubbles appear.Makes 8 to 10 pancakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream Potatoes
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Frozen hash browns,thawed
      8 oz Cheddar cheese,grated
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 lg Carton sour cream
      1 ts Salt
      1    Onion, diced
           Garlic salt to taste
      2 c  Cornflakes,crushed
      1    Stick margarine or butter
 
   Mix all ingredients together except for cornflakes and butter. Place
  in large casserole and bake @ 350 degrees for 45 minutes. Remove from
  oven.Top with cornflakes and butter or margarine. Return to oven and
  bake 15 minutes longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cottage Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 lg Eggs
           Salt and Pepper to taste
  1 1/2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Small curd cream style
           Cottage cheese
      2 tb Finely diced Cheddar cheese
 
  Beat eggs with salt and pepper just enough to blend yolks and
  whites.In an 8" skillet,melt butter and twirl to coat bottom of
  skillet;add eggs to hot butter and cook over moderately low
  heat,lifting eggs from bottom with a large spoon as they set. When
  almost set,shut off heat,fold in cottage and cheddar cheese.Serve at
  once.Makes 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Welsh Rabbit with Beer (Nothing To Do With Wales & Not a 
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      1 lb Sharp cheddar cheese,grated
    3/4 c  Beer
           Dash of cayenne pepper OR
           Tabasco
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
      8    Slices warm toast, each
           Halved
 
  In the top of a double boiler set over hot,not boiling,water,melt
  butter.Add cheese and all but 1 tbsp. of the beer.Cook,stirring
  constantly,until cheese has melted and the mixture is smooth.Combine
  seasonings with remaining beer and stir into cheese.Beat a little of
  the hot mixture into the beaten egg to prevent curdling before adding
  the egg mixture to the melted cheese.Stir to combine. Arrange 4
  triangles of toast on each plate and top immediately with 1/4 of the
  rabbit.Alternatives:Top each piece of toast with a very thin slice of
  baked Virginia ham before pouring on the melted cheese. Substitute
  boiled tomato halves,steamed asparagus or broccoli,toasted English
  muffins or corn muffins for the toast.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Apple Pancake
 Categories: Breakfast, Fruit, Apples, Pancakes
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour,sifted
  1 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2    Green apples (Granny Smith
           Or pippin), peeled, cored
           And sliced medium thin
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Beer, room temperature
      2    Egg yolks
      3 tb Sweet butter
      4    Egg whites
      1 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Light brown sugar
    1/2 sm Lemon
 
  Sift together the flour,1 1/2 tsp. sugar and the salt in a large
  mixing bowl.Add beer and stir until smooth.Beat in one yolk,then the
  other.In a separate bowl,beat whites with 1 tbsp. sugar until they
  form peaks.Fold into the batter.Mix together the remaining sugar,
  light brown sugar and cinnamon,reserving 2 tsp.of this mixture.
  Squeeze lemon over the apples and toss with sugar-cinnamon mixture
  until coated.Heat the butter and oil in a 9 to 10" oven proof pan or
  skillet.Pour in half of the batter and cover with all apples.Pour in
  the rest of the batter and bake in a preheated 350 degree oven,on the
  middle rack,for 60 minutes or until the apple pancake is puffed up
  and golden.To serve,loosen sides and bottom with a metal spatula,
  sliding onto hot plate.Sprinkle with remaining sugar-cinnamon
  mixture. Cut into wedges.Serves 2 generously.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Toast with Brandied Lemon Butter
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Eggs
      2 tb + 1 ts sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Whole milk
    1/4 ts Vanilla extract
     12    Thick slices of bread that
           Have been cut and left out
           Overnight to dry out
           Butter
           Powdered sugar, optional

MMMMM-------------------BRANDIED LEMON BUTTER------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
           Juice of 2 lemons
      4 ts Grated lemon rind
      3 oz Brandy or rum
 
  In a shallow dish,beat eggs,sugar,salt,milk and vanilla.Soak bread in
  the mixture.Heat butter over medium high heat and cook each slice
  until slightly brown on each side.Serve with maple syrup or brandied
  lemon butter and lemon slices.Sprinkle with powdered sugar,if
  desired. BRANDIED LEMON BUTTER Melt butter over low heat.Spoon off
  any foam that forms.Pour into a dish,leaving behind any sediment in
  the pan.Wash pan,pour in the clarified butter and sugar.Stir
  constantly until sugar dissolves.Add rind,juice and brandy and stir
  until smooth.Pour over hot French toast.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      6    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
           Dash pepper
      2 tb Cold water
      3 tb Butter
 
  About 30 minutes before serving,in a small bowl with wire whisk or
  hand beater,beat eggs,salt,pepper and 2 tbsp. cold water. In a 10"
  skillet over medium-low heat,melt butter,tilting skillet to grease
  sides.Pour eggs into skillet;let set around sides. With a metal
  spatula,gently lift edges as they set,tilting to allow uncooked
  portion to run under omelet.Shake skillet occasionally to keep omelet
  moving freely in pan.When omelet is set but still moist on the
  surface,increase heat slightly to brown bottom of omelet. Tilt
  skillet and with spatula,fold in half;slide onto heated platter.
  Makes two main-dish servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puffy Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Eggs, separated
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/4 c  Cold water
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter
 
  About 30 minutes before serving,preheat oven to 350 degrees.In large
  bowl,with mixer at high speed,beat egg whites until foamy; add cream
  of tartar and continue beating just until stiff peaks form. In small
  bowl,with mixer at high speed,beat egg yolks with 1/4 cup cold water
  and salt until very light;carefully fold yolk mixture into beaten
  whites. In ovenproof 10" skillet over medium-low heat,in hot butter,
  cook egg mixture three minutes,or until puffy and golden on under
  side when lifted with a spatula.Then bake 10 minutes or until golden
  and top springs back when tapped with finger. Run a spatula around
  sides to loosen omelet.Make a slit part way across center of
  omelet;tip skillet and with pancake turner,fold omelet in half;slide
  onto heated platter.Makes 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Apple Omelet Roll
 Categories: Pork, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Salad dressing
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
     12    Eggs, separated
  1 1/2 c  (12 oz) bulk pork sausage,
           Cooked, drained
      1 c  (4 oz.) shredded sharp
           Cheddar cheese
    3/4 c  Chopped apple
 
  Combine 1/2 cup salad dressing,flour,salt;gradually add milk and
  beaten egg yolks.Cook,stirring constantly,over low heat until
  thickened.Remove from heat;cool 15 minutes.Fold in stiffly beaten egg
  whites.Pour into 15 x 10 x 1" jelly roll pan lined with greased wax
  paper.Bake @ 425 degrees for 20 minutes.Invert onto towel. Carefully
  remove wax paper.Cover with combined remaining salad
  dressing,sausage,3/4 cup cheese,and apple.Roll up omelet,starting at
  narrow end.Place,seam side down,on serving platter.Top with remaining
  cheese.Serves 6 to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower Cheese Souffle
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Chopped cauliflower
           Water
  2 1/2 tb Butter
  2 1/2 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Warm milk
           Salt
    1/2 c  Grated Gouda cheese
      6    Eggs, separated
 
  Steam cauliflower above water until tender,cool slightly and chop
  fine;set aside.Melt butter in a saucepan.Stir in flour over low heat,
  cook and stir for a couple of minutes or until golden brown.Remove
  from heat and stir in milk,beating with a wire whisk to make very
  smooth.Return to heat and bring to a quick boil,then reduce heat to
  simmer.Add cheese and salt.Cook for 3 to 4 minutes or until
  thickened, stirring all the time;remove from heat. Now separate eggs
  and beat yolks,adding white sauce slowly,then stir in
  cauliflower.Beat egg whites until stiff.Fold into mixture and spoon
  into a greased 2 qt.souffle dish. Bake in a pan of hot water in a
  preheated 375 degree oven for 35 to 40 minutes.Serve
  immediately.Makes 4 to 5 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Farmer's Breakfasts
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      3 md Potatoes, peeled and thinly
           Sliced
      4    Green onions, sliced
    1/2    Sweet green pepper,diced
      2 c  Diced ham
           Salt and pepper to taste
      4 lg Eggs,beaten
      4 oz Cheddar cheese, shredded
 
  In a frying pan,melt butter over medium heat.Saute vegetables,ham, and
  seasonings for 3 minutes.Cover,cook over low heat until the potatoes
  are tender,about 30 minutes. Pour eggs over vegetables.Do not
  stir.Cover and cook until eggs are set,about 10 minutes.Sprinkle with
  cheese.Heat only until the cheese melts.Cut into wedges and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Souffle Au Fromage
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Flour and butter for
           Coating souffle dish
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Milk
           Salt and pepper
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Plus 1 tbsp. grated cheese
      6    Egg whites
 
  Heavily coat the inside and rim of a 6 cup souffle dish with soft
  butter.Add 2 tbsp. of flour and turn to coat all the butter.No clear
  spots should remain.Tap the dish on the counter,empty excess flour
  and set dish aside. Melt 3 tbsp. butter in a saucepan.Add flour and
  cook until mixture foams.Use a whisk to beat in the milk and bring
  the sauce to a boil, stirring constantly.Add salt,pepper and
  mustard.Cook 2 minutes.Remove from heat and beat in egg yolks one at
  a time,beating well after each addition.Cool slightly,then beat in
  cup grated cheese.(This can be done in advance.Lay a piece of plastic
  wrap directly on the mixture to keep it from forming a skin.If you
  refrigerate the mixture,warm it gently and beat well before
  continuing.) Heat oven to 400 degrees.Heat the cheese mixture until
  hot to the touch.Whip the egg whites until they barely hold stiff
  peaks.Add a quarter of the egg whites to the cheese mixture.Stir
  gently to blend completely.Add this to remaining egg whites and fold
  quickly and gently.pour mixture into prepared souffle dish and
  sprinkle with 1 tbsp. cheese. Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until souffle
  is puffed and brown.If it browns too rapidly,place a sheet of
  lightweight aluminum foil directly on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grand Marnier Souffle
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Soft butter and flour for
           Coating the dish
      6 tb Sugar
    3/4 c  Flour
      6 tb Butter
      2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Grand Marnier liqueur
      1 ts Grated orange rind
      7    Eggs,separated
      2 ts Finely chopped hazelnuts,
           Plus more for top, if
           Desired
 
  Heat oven to 375 degrees.Brush 6 cup souffle dish generously with
  butter.Sprinkle with sugar and tip the pan so the sugar covers the
  butter.Tap on the counter and discard excess sugar. Combine 5 tbsp.
  sugar and flour,stirring to blend well.Set aside. Melt butter in heavy
  saucepan.Add flour mixture and heat until it bubbles.Use a whisk to
  beat in milk and bring to a boil.Remove from heat.Beat in liqueur and
  orange rind,then beat in egg yolks one at a time.Set aside. Beat egg
  whites until very foamy.Beat in 1 tbsp. sugar and beat whites until
  stiff peaks form.Blend half of the whites into base mixture,then fold
  base into egg whites.Pour half the mixture into souffle dish,sprinkle
  with 2 tsp. nuts,then pour in remaining souffle mixture.Sprinkle more
  nuts on top,if desired.Bake for 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham Souffle
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  French bread,cubed
    1/2 lb Cheddar cheese,cubed
      3 c  Ham,cubed
      1 cn B & B mushrooms (1 cup)
      1 sm Can ripe olives,sliced
      3 tb Flour
      1 tb Dry mustard
           Butter, melted
      4    Eggs, beaten
      3 c  Milk
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Put bread,ham,cheese,mushrooms and olives in buttered 9 x 12" pans.Mix
  flour and mustard.Sprinkle over layer.Repeat until all is used.Pour a
  little melted butter over top.Beat eggs and milk together. Pour over
  mixture in pan.Sprinkle with salt and pepper.Refrigerate
  overnight.Remove 1 hour before baking.Bake 1 hour @ 350 degrees.
  Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Souffle
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Mushrooms,sliced
    1/2 c  Butter,melted
     10    Slices white bread
    1/2 c  Onion,finely chopped
    1/2 c  Celery,finely chopped
    1/2 c  Green pepper,finely chopped
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      4    Eggs, well beaten
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 c  Grated Cheddar cheese
 
  Saute mushrooms in butter.Reserve.Butter bread and cut into 1"
  cubes.Put half of the bread in a shallow 2 qt. baking dish. Crumble
  mushrooms and remaining ingredients,except soup and cheese.Spoon over
  bread,top with 1/2 of remaining bread.Refrigerate overnight.Before
  baking,spread soup over all.Top with remaining bread.Bake @ 300
  degrees for 40 minutes.Sprinkle with cheese and bake 20 minutes more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Omelet
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
     12 oz Potatoes, peeled and thinly
           Sliced, about 2 cups
      1 md Red bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and cut into thin
           Strips, about 1 cup
      1 md Onion,diced, about 3/4 cup
      1 md Rib celery, cut into thin
           2" strips, about 1/2 cup
      8 lg Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground red cayenne pepper
      1 pk (10 oz) frozen whole okra,
           Thawed
      4 oz Cooked ham, diced, about
           1 cup
           Fresh parsley sprigs,
           Optional
 
  In a 12" skillet with heat proof handle over medium-high heat, heat
  oil.Add potatoes,red bell pepper,onion and celery.Cook about 12
  minutes,stirring frequently until vegetables are tender.Meanwhile, in
  medium-size bowl,beat eggs,1/3 cup water,salt and ground red pepper
  until well blended.Pour egg mixture into skillet;scatter okra and
  diced ham over top.Reduce heat to medium.Cook 10 minutes until sides
  and bottom of omelet are set.Meanwhile,heat broiler.Place skillet
  under broiler,6" from heat source;broil 3 to 5 minutes until top of
  omelet is puffy and just set.Garnish with parsley,if desired. Makes 6
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buttermilk Waffles with Raspberry Sauce
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Buttermilk
      3    Eggs
      6 tb Butter, melted

MMMMM----------------------RASPBERRY SAUCE---------------------------
      2 pk (10 oz) frozen raspberries
    1/2 c  SUPERFINE sugar
           Grated rind of 1 orange
 
  Stir dry ingredients into a large bowl.Beat buttermilk and eggs at low
  speed using whisk attachment of Handy Mixer cordless beater in a
  medium bowl.Slowly add melted butter.Make a well in center of flour
  mixture.Add buttermilk mixture to well using a beater
  attachment,slowly blending at low speed until all liquid ingredients
  are incorporated. Then beat at high speed until smooth,reserve
  liquid.Puree raspberries in food processor or blender until
  smooth.Blend in sugar and orange rind and enough of reserved liquid
  until sauce is desired thickness. Pour 1 cup of waffle batter into a
  preheated,well greased waffle iron and cook until golden.Serve with
  Raspberry Sauce.Garnish with walnuts and fresh raspberries,if
  desired.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cafe Beaujolais Sour Cream Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------SAUTEED APPLES----------------------------
      2 tb Butter
      1 md Apple, peeled, cored and
           Sliced
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 ts Brown sugar

MMMMM--------------------------WAFFLES-------------------------------
      2 c  Flour
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
      4    Eggs, separated
      1 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Plus 2 tbsp. melted butter
           Or corn oil
    1/2 c  Chopped toasted pecans
 
  Sauteed Apples: Melt butter in a 8" skillet over moderate heat. Add
  apples and cook,stirring frequently,2 to 3 minutes.Stir in cinnamon
  and sugar;reduce heat to low and cook,covered,2 to 3 minutes,until
  tender and golden brown.Cool slightly.
  
  Waffles: Sift together dry ingredients.Beat egg yolks with sour
  cream,milk and melted butter in separate bowl until blended.Stir into
  dry ingredients until blended well.Stir in apples and pecans. Beat
  egg whites until stiff,moist peaks form.Stir about 3 tbsp. of the
  beaten whites into the batter,then gently fold in remaining egg
  whites until just combined. Pour or ladle batter over center 2/3 of
  hot waffle iron.Close lid cook about 4 minutes,until steam no longer
  emerges from the crack. Remove waffle.Keep warm in a warm oven while
  you cook the rest. Makes 8 waffles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scotch Oatmeal Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Elam's Scotch-style oatmeal
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Cooking oil
 
  Combine first 4 ingredients in bowl;mix.Combine and mix milk, eggs and
  oil.Add liquids to dry ingredients;mix.For each waffle, pour 1/2 of
  batter (1 1/3 cups) into preheated 9" square waffle iron.Spread over
  grid at once.Close iron;bake until done and nicely browned.Serve hot
  with butter and maple syrup,honey, applesauce or preserves.Yield: 2 -
  9" waffles or 8 - 4" waffles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tostada Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------BLENDER CORNMEAL WAFFLES-----------------------
      1    Egg
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Cornmeal
      2 ts Baking powder
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt

MMMMM----------------------TACO MEAT SAUCE---------------------------
      1 lb Ground lean beef
      1 pk Dry Taco Seasoning mix

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
      2 c  Shredded lettuce
      1 md (about 1 c) chopped tomato
    1/2 c  Sour cream
           Sliced ripe olives
 
  Waffles: Preheat waffle maker.Place all ingredients into Osterizer-
  blender container.Cover;process at a medium speed until dry
  ingredients are moistened.Do not over blend.Pour 1/2 cup batter over
  center of grids.Close waffle maker.Bake until golden,about 2
  minutes.Yield:4 waffles.
  
  Meat Sauce: Prepare mix according to package directions.Place 1/4 cup
  sauce on each waffle.Add toppings.
  
  Toppings: On each waffle,top meat sauce with 2 tbsp. cheese,1/4 cup
  lettuce and 2 tbsp. tomato.Garnish with 1 tbsp. sour cream and
  olives. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: James River Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Eggs,separated
      2 c  Buttermilk
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      6 tb Melted butter
 
  Beat egg yolks until light.Stir in 1 cup buttermilk.Sift together dry
  ingredients and beat into yolk mixture.Stir in remaining buttermilk
  and butter.Beat egg whites until stiff and fold in.Bake in hot waffle
  iron.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream-Filled Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------WAFFLES-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Plus 2 TB warm milk (110)
      2 pk Active dry yeast
  3 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
           Pinch salt
    1/2 c  Plus 1 tbsp. butter
      4    Eggs
           Grated peel of 1/2 lemon
           Oil

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/4 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Powdered sugar,sifted
           Add. powdered sugar, sifted
 
  Waffles: Stir pinch of salt into warm milk;sprinkle with yeast.Let
  stand 5 minutes or until surface is frothy.Stir gently to moisten any
  dry particles remaining on top.Sift flour,remaining sugar and salt
  into large bowl.Melt butter;cool slightly.Lightly beat butter,eggs
  and lemon peel into yeast mixture.Pour into flour mixture.Beat well
  until batter begins to bubble.Cover and let rise in warm place 25
  minutes. Heat waffle iron,brushing inside well with oil.Put a little
  of the batter in waffle iron for each waffle.Cook until golden
  brown,5 to 7 minutes,depending on temperature of iron.Break up
  waffles into sections.Cool on rack. Filling: Beat cream and powdered
  sugar until stiff.Put into pastry bag fitted with fluted nozzle.Fill
  pairs of cooled waffles with piped whipped cream mixture.Sprinkle
  with additional powdered sugar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Egg-Pasta Recipe
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose
           Flour
      1    Egg
 
  Combine the flour and egg in the mixing bowl of a food processor
  fitted with a steel blade.Process for a few minutes.The dough will
  look very granular,like yellow-colored,uncooked cream of wheat.Pinch
  the dough.It should stock together.If it does not stick,mix in a bit
  of oil or water. Form a ball with the dough and knead for a few
  minutes on a lightly floured board.It will become smooth and
  hard(much harder than bread dough).In a few minutes,the dough should
  look satiny and smooth.Wrap it in plastic and let rest for about 30
  minutes. Then roll out the dough through a pasta roller or by
  hand.Sprinkle additional flour on the dough as needed to prevent
  sticking.The dough is quite forgiving and can be handled easily. When
  the rolled-out pasta sheet feels dry,not sticky,cut into noodles by
  hand or with the machine. If you have a pasta drying rack,hang the
  cut pasta on the rack.If not,wrap the noodles around your hand to
  form a nest and set it on a lightly floured board.Toss with flour on
  occasion to allow the pasta to dry evenly. Fresh pasta cooks
  quickly.Add it to boiling water and test a strand every 15 seconds
  until done. Sometimes,I vary this recipe by adding 1 1/2 tsp. of
  olive oil and up to 1 tbsp. of a flavoring ingredient,such as minced
  fresh herbs or garlic,tomato paste or pureed beets. Keeping the same
  proportions of 1 egg to 3/4 cup flour,the recipe can be multiplied as
  many times as needed.A 1 egg recipe will feed 1 or 2 people for a
  main course;a 2 egg recipe feeds 2 to 3.An average size food
  processor will handle a 3 egg recipe easily.If you need to make
  more,it is a good idea to make several batches.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Extra Cheese Lasagne
 Categories: Italian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Egg pasta recipe(above)
      1 lb Ricotta cheese
      2 cl Garlic, minced
     10 oz Frozen chopped spinach,
           Thawed and drained
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
      4 c  Seasoned Italian tomato
           Sauce
      2 c  Grated provolone cheese
      2 c  Grated mozzarella
      1 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
  Prepare the pasta dough according to recipe directions.Cut into strips
  about 13" long and 3" wide.You will need to gather all the trimmed
  scraps and reroll the dough to make enough noodles.This recipe should
  work out exactly if you roll your dough thin. Combine the
  ricotta,garlic,spinach,egg and salt.Mix well by hand or in food
  processor. To assemble the lasagne,pour a little bit of sauce in the
  bottom of a 9 x 13" baking dish.Cover with a layer of noodles,then
  layer of sauce.Sprinkle a layer of provolone,a layer of
  mozzarella,then a layer of Parmesan.Cover with a layer of
  noodles,then sauce,then the ricotta cheese mixture.Top with a layer
  of noodles,sauce and the grated cheeses. Finish with a layer of
  noodles,sauce and grated cheese. Cover the lasagne lightly(if you are
  using aluminum foil,make a tent with the foil so it doesn't touch the
  top of the lasagne). Bake for 1 hour @ 350 degrees.Remove the cover
  and bake for an additional 30 minutes.Allow the lasagne to set 10
  minutes before serving.This lasagne will be quite firm and can be
  served in tidy- looking squares.Serves 6 generously.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken-Broccoli Pie
 Categories: Poultry, Pie/tart, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
           (12 oz.)
  1 1/2 c  Cut-up cooked chicken
    2/3 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 pk (10 oz) frozen chopped
           Broccoli, thawed and
           Drained
  1 1/3 c  Milk
      3    Eggs
    3/4 c  Bisquick baking mix
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Dried thyme leaves
 
  Heat oven to 400 degrees.Mix 2 cups of the cheese,chicken,onion and
  broccoli in greased pie plate,10 x 1 1/2". Beat remaining ingredients
  except cheese with wire whisk or hand beater until almost
  smooth,about 1 minute.Pour into plate. Bake until knife inserted in
  center comes out clean,25 to 30 minutes Top with remaining
  cheese.Bake just until melted,1 or 2 minutes.Cool 5 minutes.Serves 6
  to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: California Cheeseburger Pie
 Categories: Beef, Pie/tart
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      2    Tomatoes, sliced
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    3/4 c  Bisquick baking mix
  1 1/2 c  Shredded lettuce
  1 1/2 c  Milk
     16    Slices dill pickle
      3    Eggs
 
  Heat oven to 400 degrees.Grease pie plate,10 x 1 1/2".Cook and stir
  beef and onion in 10" skillet until beef is brown;drain.Stir in salt
  and pepper;spread in plate.Beat baking mix,milk and eggs with wire
  whisk or hand beater until almost smooth,about 1 minute. Pour into
  plate. Bake 25 minutes.Top with tomatoes and cheese.Bake until knife
  inserted in center comes our clean,5 to 8 minutes.Cool 5 minutes. Top
  with lettuce and pickles.Makes 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Melt Pie
 Categories: Fish, Pie/tart
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 md Onions, chopped
      1 c  Bisquick baking mix
  1 1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 cn (6 1/2 oz) tuna, drained
      3    Eggs
      2    Tomatoes, thinly sliced
      2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
 
  Heat oven to 400 degrees.Grease square baking dish,8 x 8 x 2". Cook
  onions and margarine in 10" skillet over low heat,stirring
  occasionally,until onions are light brown.Sprinkle tuna,1 cup of the
  cheese and the onions in dish. Beat baking mix,milk,pepper and eggs
  with wire whisk or hand beater until almost smooth,about 1
  minute.Pour into dish. Bake until knife inserted in center comes out
  clean,25 to 30 minutes.Top with tomato slices and remaining
  cheese.Bake until cheese is melted,3 to 5 minutes.Cool 5
  minutes.Serves 6 to 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rigodon
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Cream
    3/4 c  Milk
      1    Slice bacon, optional,
           Depending on meat chosen
      1 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Cubed brioche
      1    Green onion,sliced
  1 1/2 tb Flour
      4    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Cubed meat
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Cubed mozzarella cheese
      1 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
  In a small saucepan,bring milk and cream to a boil.Set aside.Saute
  bacon until crisp;drain and crumble.Set aside.Place butter in
  saucepan over medium heat and toss brioche cubes to brown.Halfway
  through, place chopped green onion in pan and saute with brioche
  until wilted. Set aside. In a large bowl,whisk together flour and
  eggs until smooth.Add meat, parsley,salt,pepper and mix again.Pour
  into greased 8 x 8" baking dish. Sprinkle mozzarella cheese cubes
  evenly over top,followed by toasted brioche-onion mixture.Sprinkle
  with Parmesan cheese and crumbled bacon. Bake until set and lightly
  browned,about 30 minutes.Let cool at least an hour before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: South of the Border Crepe Stack
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Crepes
      1 lb Ground beef, browned and
           Drained
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 cn (16 oz) refried beans
      1    8 oz. jar taco sauce
    3/4 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
      1 md Tomato, cut into thin
           Wedges
 
  Prepare crepes.Heat ground beef,green pepper,beans and taco sauce in
  10" skillet,stirring constantly until hot.Place 1 crepe in ungreased
  pie plate,9 x 1 1/4" or 10 x 1 1/2";spread with 1/3 of the beef
  mixture.Sprinkle with 1/4 cup of the cheese;place 1 crepe on top.
  Repeat with remaining beef mixture,cheese and crepes.Cover pie plate
  with aluminum foil.Bake 10 minutes.Remove foil;arrange tomato wedges
  on crepe in circle about 1" from edge.Garnish with sour cream or
  guacamole,if desired.Cut into wedges.6 Servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Style Beef and Vegetable Wrap-Ups
 Categories: Chinese, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Crepes
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Hot water
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Ground beef, browned and
           Drained
      2 c  Chopped cabbage
      1 oz Pkg. fried rice seasoning
           Mix
 
  Prepare crepes.Pour oil into rectangular baking dish,13 x 9 x 2". Mix
  remaining ingredients in 10" skillet.Heat over medium heat until
  hot.Spoon down center of crepes.Fold ends of crepes over brown
  mixture. Place folded sides down in dish.bake until crepes are
  crisp,10 to 15 minutes;drain.Serve with sweet and sour sauce,if
  desired.6 Servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesy Garden Tuna-Filled Crepes (Microwave Recipe)
 Categories: Fish, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Crepes
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 cn (7 3/4 oz) tuna, drained
      2 c  Frozen broccoli,cut up
      2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
 
  Prepare crepes.Place broccoli in 1 1/2 qt. microwave safe casserole.
  Cover and microwave as directed on pkg.;drain.Stir in 1 1/2 cups
  cheese and the remaining ingredients.Microwave covered on high 1
  minute. Spoon onto crepes;roll up.Arrange in square microwave dish,8
  x 8 x 2"; sprinkle with remaining cheese.Cover loosely with plastic
  wrap and microwave on high until cheese is melted,2 to 3 minutes.4
  Servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Baskets
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 pk Pepperidge farm French Rolls
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Chopped scallions
      6    Eggs
      3 tb Milk
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees.With sharp knife,remove the top and
  center of each roll,leaving a shell about 1/2" thick.Place shells in
  oven to brown,about 15 minutes.Melt butter and saute scallions.Beat
  eggs and milk together with seasonings.Pour into pan with scallions
  and scramble.Spoon into baked shells and serve.Garnish with parsley
  or paprika,if desired.Makes 3 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breakfast Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Egg
      2 tb Sugar
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Shortening,melted
      1 ts Prepared mustard
  1 1/3 c  Sifted flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pk (2 1/2 oz) Carl Buddig Ham,
           Finely chopped
    1/2 c  Shredded Wisconsin Swiss
           Cheese
 
  Beat egg until light.Add sugar,sour cream,shortening and mustard; stir
  well.Add dry ingredients;stir just until moistened;do not overbeat.
  Gently,stir in ham and cheese.Fill greased muffin tins 3/4 full.Bake
  @ 400 degrees 20 to 25 minutes.Yield: 12 muffins or 32 mini-muffins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brunch Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Slices bread,cubed
    1/2 lb Cheddar cheese,cubed
      1 lb Bacon,crisp fried,
           Crumbled
      1 cn (4 oz) mushrooms, optional
      3    Eggs, beaten with:
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dried mustard
           Dash pepper
           Dash paprika
 
  In casserole dish,layer bread,cheese and bacon.Beat others and pour
  over top.If using mushrooms,drain and pour over top.Bake @ 350
  degrees for 50 minutes.
  
  * Best if left in refrigerator overnight and baked in the morning.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Biscuits
 Categories: Pork, Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SOLIDS--------------------------------
    1/2 lb Sausage,cooked and drained
  1 1/2 c  Bisquick
      4 oz Grated Cheddar cheese
           (about 1 cup)

MMMMM--------------------------LIQUIDS-------------------------------
      1 lg Egg
      2 tb Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Mix together Bisquick and cheese,then add sausage.
  
  Mix liquids, then add to solid mixture. Shape into small balls,
  flatten slightly. Bake @ 350 degrees 20 minutes on ungreased cookie
  sheet.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mackinac Island Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Eggs, separated
      6 oz Process cheese spread
      2 tb Milk
           Dash of salt
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Strawberry Preserves
      2 tb Sliced almonds,toasted
 
  Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry.Beat combined yolks,milk and
  salt until thick and lemon colored.Fold into egg whites.Melt butter
  in 10" ovenproof skillet over medium-high heat.Add egg mixture cook 3
  minutes or until underside is golden brown.Bake @ 325 degrees 10 to
  12 minutes or until knife inserted near center comes out clean.
  Remove from oven.Make a deep crease across center of top.Place cheese
  spread on half of omelet;continue baking until process cheese spread
  begins to melt.Slip spatula underneath,tip skillet to loosen and
  gently fold in half.Combine preserves and almonds;heat  thorough- ly,
  stirring occasionally.Serve over omelet.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Waist-Watching Western Omelets
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Vegetable oil
      1 md Red bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and cut into thin
           Strips
      1 md Green bell pepper, cored,
           Seeded and cut into thin
           Strips
      4 oz Turkey ham, cut into
           Julienne strips, about 1
           Cup
           Salt and black pepper, to
           Taste
      4 lg Eggs
      4 lg Egg whites
           Fresh parsley sprigs, opt.
 
  In 10" nonstick skillet over medium-high heat,heat oil;add red and
  green peppers and turkey ham;cook 2 to 3 minutes,stirring frequently
  until peppers are crisp-tender.Season lightly with salt and pepper;
  remove from heat;keep warm.In small bowl using wire whisk or fork,
  beat 1 egg and 1 egg white until blended and frothy.Spray 6" nonstick
  skillet or omelet pan with nonstick vegetable spray;set over medium
  heat.Pour egg mixture into skillet;using flat side of fork,stir
  briskly in circular motion while shaking pan back and forth over
  heat.When liquid has just begun to set,stop stirring;let omelet cook
  30 to 40 seconds longer until edges and bottom are set but center is
  still soft. Loosen omelet around edges with spatula until it moves
  freely;remove from heat.Arrange 1/4 reserved pepper mixture on side
  of omelet farthest away from skillet handle.Tilt handle of skillet
  up;using spatula,lift edge of omelet nearest handle up and over
  peppers.Slide omelet onto plate;garnish with parsley sprig,if
  desired.Serve immediately;repeat to make three more omelets.Makes 4
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: In the Spirit Seafood Strata
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Oyster crackers
      2    Envelopes lobster bisque
           Dry soup mix
    3/4 c  Chopped green onions with
           Tops
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Sliced, drained water
           Chestnuts
    1/2 ts Lemon pepper seasoning
      1 c  Frozen peas
      8 oz Frozen crabmeat, thawed
           Cherry tomatoes, optional
           Green onion tops, optional
      8    Eggs
      2 c  Milk
 
  Sprinkle 2 1/2 cups of the oyster crackers over the bottom of greased
  13 x 9 x 2" baking dish.Layer onions,water chestnuts,peas and crabmeat
  crackers.Top with remaining crackers.Blend together remaining
  ingredients and pour over layers.Cover and refrigerate several hours
  or overnight. Bake in preheated 350 degree oven until golden brown,30
  to 35 minutes. Cut into squares to serve.Garnish with tomatoes and
  green onions,if desired.Makes 8 servings.
  
  * Please Note: To keep down cost,use 1/2" slices of new imitation
  crabmeat sticks,termed "Surimi" in place of crabmeat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange - Eggnog Souffle
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Envelopes unflavored
           Gelatin
    3/4 c  Sugar, divided
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate,
           Coarsely chopped
      2 ts Vanilla custard sauce
           Whipped cream
           Toasted almonds
    1/4 ts Salt
      5    Eggs, separated
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Frozen orange juice
           Concentrate
      1 ts Grated orange peel
      2 c  Eggnog
      1 tb Rum extract
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
      2 c  Whipping cream,divided
           Orange slice
 
  Mix gelatin with 1/4 cup of the sugar and salt.Beat egg yolks with
  water and orange juice concentrate.Add to gelatin mixture.Stir over
  low heat until gelatin is completely dissolved,5 to 8 minutes.Remove
  from heat. Add orange peel,eggnog and rum extract.Chill,stirring
  occasionally, until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a
  spoon.Beat egg whites with cream of tartar until frothy;gradually add
  remaining sugar and beat until soft peaks form.Fold in gelatin
  mixture. Whip 1 1/2 cups of the cream until soft peaks form;fold into
  gelatin mixture.Pour into 1 qt. souffle dish with collar.To make
  collar,tear off 4" piece of foil 4" longer than the circumference of
  the dish.Fold it in thirds lengthwise.Place around top of dish and
  tape it together so that it fits snugly. Chill until set,at least 6
  hours.Remove collar.Whip remaining 1/2 cup cream until stiff;garnish
  with whipped cream and orange slice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old Fashion Style German Pancakes
 Categories: German, Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Goat cheese, softened
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      3 lg Eggs
      1 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Kosher salt
      3 tb Butter,unsalted
 
  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.Blend the cheese,milk,flour,eggs,
  sugar and salt in a blender until smooth and set aside.Melt the
  butter in a 10" skillet.Pour in the batter and place in the oven to
  bake for 25 minutes or until the sides are puffy and the top is
  brown.Either bring the pancake to the table in its pan or slide it
  onto a serving plate.Top with fruit,such as sauteed apple
  slices.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexicalli Omelet
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/3 c  Heinz 'n Onions
      2 tb Drained chopped green
           Chilies
      6    Eggs
      2 tb Water
    1/4 ts Salt
           Dash pepper
      2 tb Butter or margarine
 
  Combine ketchup and chilies;set aside in small bowl.Beat eggs,water
  salt and pepper with a fork to blend well.Heat butter in a 10"
  skillet until sizzling and lightly browned.Pour egg mixture all at
  once and cook slowly.Run spatula around edges,lifting to allow
  uncooked portion to flow underneath.When mixture is set,fold in
  half.Cut into pie-shaped wedges.Top each serving with 2 tbsp. ketchup
  mixture.Makes 3 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greens and Yellow Squash with Eggs
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Finely chopped fresh young
           Spinach or Swiss chard
      2 c  Thinly sliced yellow squash
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 cl Garlic, pressed
      1 ts Dried oregano leaf
           Red pepper flakes
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Shredded jack cheese
    2/3 c  Crumbled feta or blue
           Cheese
      3 tb Chopped ripe olives
      2 tb Minced fresh parsley
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Toss together greens and squash.Saute lightly in oil with garlic,
  oregano and a few red pepper flakes;do not overcook.Transfer
  vegetables to a lightly buttered 9" pie dish. Beat eggs in a
  bowl;stir in cheeses,olives,parsley and lemon juice. Spread over
  vegetables,stirring gently to combine well. Bake in a preheated 350
  degree oven for about 20 minutes or until dish is well set.Serves 4
  to 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Onion and Chilies Lorraine
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    9" unbaked deep-dish pie
           Crust
      2 cn (4 oz) whole green chilies
      3 oz Monterey Jack cheese, cut
           Into 1/2 x 1/4" strips
      1 cn (10 3/4 oz) condensed
           Creamy onion soup
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Half and half
      3    Eggs, slightly beaten
  1 1/2 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
      1 ts Dry mustard
           Dash white pepper
    1/8 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/3 c  Pitted ripe olives
 
  Bake pie crust @ 450 degrees for 7 minutes.Reduce temperature to 375
  degrees. Rinse chilies and pat dry with paper towels.Make a
  lengthwise slit in a chili,place a strip on Monterey Jack cheese
  inside.Repeat with remaining chilies.Place chilies in pie crust
  spoke-fashion. In medium bowl,stir soup.Gradually,add milk and half
  and half. Add remaining ingredients except olives,mix well.Pour
  mixture over chilies. Bake on cookie sheet for 1 hour or until knife
  inserted in center comes out clean.Let stand 10 minutes before
  serving.Garnish with olives.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Crust Quiche
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms,
           Coarsely chopped
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions
      3    Eggs, slightly beaten
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
      1 c  Cottage cheese
      1 c  Shredded Monterey Jack
           Cheese
 
  Melt butter in skillet,add mushrooms and saute until golden,about 10
  minutes.Stir in bread crumbs,then pat into a 9" pie pan or divide
  among eight 4" tart pans. Combine cheeses and remaining
  ingredients;spoon into prepared crust.Bake @ 350 degrees 35 to 45
  minutes,until puffy and golden. Cool about 10 minutes before
  serving.Makes one 9" pie.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Omelet
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, cleaned and
           Sliced
    1/2    Green or red pepper,
           Chopped
      2 tb Olive or vegetable oil
      4    Eggs
      4    Egg whites
    1/4 c  Milk or water
           Salt and pepper
 
  Heat olive oil in a large skillet.Add mushrooms and green peppers.
  Cook 5 minutes or so,stirring occasionally,until green pepper is
  softened.Meanwhile,beat eggs,egg whites,milk,salt and pepper in a
  medium bowl.When vegetables are soft,transfer them to a plate. Pour
  the gee mixture into the skillet and cook over medium flame. Lift
  edges of the skillet to allow raw egg mixture to flow underneath and
  cook.When the egg is about half set,sprinkle with mushrooms and green
  pepper.Fold the egg over to enclose the filling and cook to desired
  doneness. Slide onto a serving platter,then divide into portions and
  serve. Serves 2 to 4,depending on appetites.
  
  Note: Don't be shy about substituting ingredients in the
  omelet.Season with a little Parmesan cheese or cooked sausage,if
  desired or change the vegetable combinations.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggs Elegant with Mushroom Sauce
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 oz Fresh mushrooms,chopped
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/8 ts Hot pepper sauce
      4    English muffins, split and
           Toasted
      8    Poached eggs
           Watercress sprigs
 
  To make sauce,saute mushrooms in melted butter for 3 minutes or until
  tender.Stir in flour,broth and cook until mixture thickens. Stir in
  sour cream,pepper and Worcestershire and pepper sauces. Cook and stir
  2 minutes more. To serve,place two English muffin halves on a
  plate.Place a poached egg on each muffin half.Spoon sauce on garnish
  with watercress. Serve immediately.Serves 3 to 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Ham Cheddar Cheese Torte
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 oz Cheddar cheese, cut in 1"
           Pieces
      1 md Onion,quartered
      1 lb Zucchini
      1 c  Cooked ham,diced
      2 tb Butter
    1/2    Recipe Concassee
           Salt and pepper
      6    Eggs
      1 c  Plain yogurt
      1    Cheddar Cheese Pastry

MMMMM-------------------------CONCASSEE------------------------------
      1 sm Celery stalk,cut in 1"
           Pieces
      2 cl Garlic
      3 lg Shallots
      2 tb Butter
     16 oz Peeled tomatoes,drained
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil or
           Tarragon
           Freshly ground pepper to
           Taste

MMMMM-------------------CHEDDAR CHEESE PASTRY------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 lb Butter, chilled, cut in 6
           Pieces
      4 oz Cheddar cheese, chilled,
           Cut in 6 pieces
  2 1/2 tb Ice water
 
  Concassee: Mince celery,garlic and shallots.Heat butter in medium
  skillet and saute vegetables 2 to 3 minutes,stirring
  occasionally.Chop tomatoes and add to skillet and bring to boil.Lower
  flame and simmer mixture until liquid has evaporated,about 20 to 25
  minutes.Add remaining ingredients,stir through and cool.Refrigerate.
  
  Cheddar Cheese Pastry Butter 8" springform pan.Measure flour and salt
  in bowl.Cut in butter and cheese until coarse meal.Gradually,add ice
  water and process until pastry begins to form a ball.Turn out dough
  on lightly floured board and roll out into a circle to fit pan.Press
  pastry so it is slightly higher than pan.Refrigerate until ready to
  use.
  
  Tart: Process cheese,grating coarsely.Reserve.Chop onion fine.Melt
  butter in large skillet and over moderate flame,saute onion until
  browned. Slice zucchini.Add to onion and cook about 5
  minutes,stirring frequently.Add Concassee and salt and pepper to
  taste and cook 1 to 2 minutes longer.Correct seasoning to taste.Cool
  slightly.Clean work bowl.Beat together eggs and yogurt.Remove to
  large mixing bowl and add cheese and zucchini mixture,blending with
  spatula.Add diced ham. Remove pastry from refrigerator and fill with
  egg,distributing the zucchini,decoratively,throughout and on top of
  the torte.Bake 10 minutes,lower oven temperature from 400 degrees to
  350 degrees and bake 40 minutes longer until golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham Pirakka
 Categories: Greek, Pork
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------FLAKY EGG PASTRY---------------------------
  1 2/3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chilled butter, cut into
           Small pieces
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1    Egg
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice

MMMMM-----------------------MUSHROOM PATE----------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
    3/4 lb Mushrooms, chopped
    1/2 c  Minced onion
      8 oz Cream cheese, at room
           Temperature
           Salt and pepper
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts
      2 tb Brandy,optional

MMMMM------------------------HAM FILLING-----------------------------
      3 c  Ground ham,about 1 1/2 lbs.
    1/2 c  Coarse breadcrumbs
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh chives OR
    1/2 c  Sliced green onion tops
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
      2    Eggs, beaten to blend
      1    Egg, beaten with:
      2 tb Milk (glaze)
           Sour cream, optional
 
  Combine flour and salt in large bowl.Cut in butter until mixture
  resembles coarse meal.Beat sour cream,egg and lemon juice to blend.
  Stir into flour with fork until stiff dough forms.Gather into ball.
  Wrap in plastic and refrigerate 30 minutes. Melt butter in heavy
  large skillet over medium heat.Add mushrooms and onion and cook until
  all liquid evaporates,stirring occasionally about 15
  minutes;cool.Blend in cream cheese.Add salt and pepper.Stir in
  walnuts and brandy,optional. For ham filling,combine all ingredients
  in medium bowl.Preheat oven to 400 degrees.Line baking sheet with
  parchment paper.Divide dough in half.Wrap one portion in plastic and
  refrigerate to keep from drying. Roll remaining portion out on
  lightly floured surface into a 6 x 12" rectangle.Set on prepared
  sheet.Layer with half of mushroom pate and half of ham
  filling,remaining pate and remaining ham,leaving a 1" border on all
  sides. Press filling into rounded log shape.Bring dough edges up
  sides of filling to make a small edge.Roll remaining dough out into a
  rectangle slightly larger than the first.Make several 1/2 x 4"
  crosswise slashes in dough.Brush with egg glaze and crimp to
  seal.Bake until golden, about 30 minutes.Serve hot,warm or
  chilled.Pass sour cream,separately, if desired.Makes 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jimmy Dean Easter Casserole
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Jimmy Dean Sausage
      6    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      4 tb Chopped onions
      4 tb Chopped bell pepper
 
  Brown sausage,onions and bell peppers in heavy skillet.Drain.Line
  baking dish with 3/4 of the sausage mixture.Combine eggs and sour
  cream.Season to taste.Pour over sausage mixture.Bake @ 350 degrees
  until eggs are semi-set.Stir egg mixture and top with remaining
  sausage.Bake until eggs are firm.Serves 4 to 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese and Sausage Biscuits
 Categories: Pork, Bread, Microwave
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 cn (12 oz) Big Country
           Biscuits
      1 pk (12 oz) bulk pork sausage
     10    Slices Kraft Deluxe
           Pasteurized Process
           American Cheese,
           Quartered *
           Plastic Wrap and freezer
           Bags
 
  Bake biscuits as directed on can.Slice sausage into 10 pieces;fry and
  drain.Slice biscuits in half;place sausage patty inside.Wrap each in
  plastic wrap and place in freezer bag;freeze. To Heat: Remove plastic
  wrap;place 1 sandwich on paper towel or napkin in microwave.Microwave
  on defrost 1 minute.Place 2 cheese quarters,slightly overlapping,on
  top of sausage.Microwave on defrost for 1 to 1 1/4 minutes or until
  thoroughly heated.Makes 10  sand- wiches.
  
  * For more cheese in sandwich,place 2 additional cheese quarters under
  sausage.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Country Fresh Baked Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Eggs
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      3 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Dried parsley
           Pepper to taste
           Paprika
 
  Put cream in large shallow baking dish.Break eggs into cream,taking
  care not to break yolks.Sprinkle with cheese,parsley,pepper,onion and
  paprika.Bake 10 minutes @ 350 degrees or until whites are cooked.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Down Home Hash and Eggs
 Categories: Meat, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Dijon mustard
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
  1 1/2 c  Chopped cooked corned beef
      4    Eggs
      4 c  Diced cooked, peeled
           Potatoes
      1 cn Cream of Celery soup
    1/4 c  Milk
 
  In 10" skillet over medium heat,in hot butter,cook potatoes 2
  minutes;stir often.Stir in next 4 ingredients;heat through.Stir in
  corned beef.Reduce heat to low.Make 4 indentations in potato
  mixture.Break an egg into each.Cover;cook 10 minutes or until eggs
  are set.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Willard Scott Scotch Eggs
 Categories: Pork, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Bulk pork sausage
     12    Eggs, hard-cooked, peeled
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/2 c  Dry bread crumbs
 
  Heat oven to 450 degrees.Divide sausage into 12 equal portions. Shape
  into patties.Wrap each patty completely  around  1  hard- cooked
  egg.Press edges to seal.Dip sausage wrapped eggs in beaten egg;roll
  in bread crumbs until coated.Place in ungreased 15 x 10" jelly roll
  pan.Bake @ 450 degrees 30 minutes,until meat is browned and cooked.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scotch Eggs Chinese Style
 Categories: Chinese, Pork, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Hard-cooked eggs, unpeeled,
           But shells cracked all over
      3 tb Soy sauce
      2    Whole star anise
      2    Bags Chinese black tea
      2    Raw eggs
      1 tb Sesame mustard
      2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
      2 tb Sesame seeds
      1 lb Bulk country style sausage
      2 ts Chopped fresh ginger root
      2 ts Chopped garlic
           Vegetable oil for frying
 
  One day before serving,place first 4 ingredients and water to cover in
  medium size saucepan.Simmer,uncovered,25 minutes;let stand overnight.
  Beat raw eggs and mustard together in shallow bowl.Combine bread
  crumbs and sesame seeds in another shallow bowl.Mix sausage, ginger
  and garlic.Peel hard-cooked eggs.Encase each egg completely in thin
  layer sausage,using both hands to mold sausage around egg. Dip one
  sausage encased egg,first in egg mixture.Coat with bread crumbs.Set
  aside on plate.Repeat with remaining eggs.Refrigerate covered at
  least 3 hours or overnight. Heat 3" oil in deep fat fryer to 375
  degrees.Fry 2 or 3 eggs at a time,turning occasionally,until quite
  well browned,10 to 15 minutes You want to make sure  the  sausage
  meat   is   thoroughly cooked.Remove them from oil with slotted
  spoon.Drain on paper towel.Serve eggs, cut in 1/4,at room
  temperature.Pass additional mustard,if desired. Makes 8 portions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: California Green Onion Rarebit
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      4    Thick slices of sourdough
           OR pumpernickel bread,
           Toasted
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/3 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 ts Crushed tarragon
           Nutmeg
      8 md Green onions with tops,
           Minced
      1 c  Monterey Jack cheese
      4    Green onions with tops,
           Trimmed (opt. garnish)
 
  Melt butter in medium saucepan over low heat.Stir in flour and cook
  for 2 minutes.Gradually,pour in the wine,whisking constantly. Cook
  over medium heat until thickened,about 5 minutes. Stir in tarragon,8
  chopped green onions and the cheese.Cook over low heat,stirring
  constantly until cheese is melted. To serve,arrange toast on
  plates,spoon sauce over toast.Sprinkle with nutmeg and garnish with
  additional green onions,if desired. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Cheddar Rarebit
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 c  Drained, canned plum
           Tomatoes
      1    12 oz. bottle beer
      1 lb Sharp Cheddar cheese,
           Shredded
      2 tb Mild grainy mustard
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Several drops hot red
           Pepper sauce
           Freshly ground black
           Pepper,to taste
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Cold water
 
  Melt butter in large heavy casserole or Dutch oven over medium heat.
  Add onion;cook 3 minutes.Stir in tomatoes;cook gently,breaking up
  tomatoes,about 5 minutes.Let stand until about 15 minutes before
  serving. Add beer to tomato mixture;heat to simmering.Reduce heat to
  maintain slow simmer,then stir in cheese,1 handful at a time,adding
  next handful when first is almost completely melted.Do not allow to
  boil. Stir in mustard,Worcestershire sauce,pepper sauce and ground
  pepper. Mix cornstarch and the cold water until completely smooth;add
  to rarebit and cook,stirring constantly,until slightly
  thickened,about 2 minutes. Spoon over whole wheat biscuit
  triangles.Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Waffles Divan
 Categories: Bread, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk (3 oz) cream cheese
      1 cn Cream of Chicken soup
           Dash pepper
  1 1/2 c  Cooked broccoli flowerets
    1/2 c  Cubed cooked chicken
    1/2 ts Dried dill
 
  In 1 qt. casserole,microwave cream cheese on HIGH 30 seconds or until
  softened.Stir in soup until smooth.Add remaining ingredients.
  Microwave on HIGH 4 minutes;stir once during heating.Serve over
  waffles.Garnish with chopped tomatoes.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamed Eggs with Scallions
 Categories: Chinese, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Fresh dill
      1    Bunch scallions, chopped
           Peanut oil
 
  Heat enough peanut oil in a clean,well- seasoned wok to coat the
  sides of the pan.Meanwhile,mix eggs,sour cream and dill.When oil is
  hot,toss in half the scallions and cook until tender.Pour egg mixture
  and with a gentle scooping motion lift eggs from the middle until
  they are completely cooked.Garnish with the remaining scallions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Spinach Quiche
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Unbaked 9" pastry shell
      1 c  Chopped cooked chicken
      1 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
      1 pk (10 oz) frozen chopped
           Spinach, cooked, well
           Drained ( 1/2 cup)
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
    3/4 c  Real mayonnaise
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Dried basil leaves
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Pierce  pastry  shell thoroughly with fork.bake in  375  degree oven
  10 minutes;remove.In large bowl,toss together chicken,cheese,spinach
  and onion;spoon into pastry shell.In small bowl,stir together
  eggs,real mayonnaise,milk,basil and pepper until smooth.Pour over
  chicken mixture.Bake in 350 degree oven 40 minutes or until golden
  and knife inserted in center comes out clean.Makes 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Cheddar Quiche
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    9" deep dish pie shell
      1 md Onion,chopped ( 1/2 cup)
      1 tb Butter or margarine
  1 1/2 c  Packed coarsely shredded
           Zucchini (8 oz.)
    1/2 ts Leaf oregano, crumbled
    1/4 ts Leaf thyme, crumbled
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3    Eggs
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
  1 1/2 c  Half and half
    1/2 c  Coarsely shredded sharp
           Cheddar cheese (2 oz.)
      2    Rectangular slices Cheddar
           Cheese, each cut in half
           Into 2 triangles
 
  Preheat oven to hot (425 degrees).Recrimp pie shell in its aluminum
  pan,making high fluted edge.Or,transfer pastry to 4 cup square baking
  pan;crimp edges. Saute onion in butter in medium size skillet over
  medium heat for 3 minutes or until tender.Stir in
  zucchini,oregano,thyme,1/4 tsp. salt and 1/8 tsp.
  pepper.Cook,stirring constantly,for 5 minutes or until zucchini is
  tender and most of liquid has evaporated.Reserve off heat. Beat eggs
  with remaining salt and pepper in bowl.Add Parmesan cheese and half
  and half.Spoon reserved zucchini mixture evenly into pie
  shell.Sprinkle with Cheddar cheese.Pour egg mixture over zucchini.
  Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes;cover crust with aluminum
  foil,if browning too fast.Lower oven temperature to slow (325
  degrees).Bake 30 to 35 minutes or until center of filling is just
  set. Overlap Cheddar triangles over top of quiche during last 2
  minutes of baking.Let quiche stand 20 minutes.Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breakfast Dutch
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
  3 - cups flour 1 - tsp. salt 2 - eggs Milk Oil for cooking
  
  Combine first 3 ingredients.Add enough milk to make soupy consistency
  like eaten eggs.Put enough cooking oil in cast iron skillet so batter
  will not stick.(Be generous.Batter will stick while baking.)Pour
  batter into skillet.Bake on top of stove,stirring and chopping as for
  scrambled eggs,until it looks like scrambled eggs and is baked
  through.Serve immediately with butter and syrup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Yogurt Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Onion, finely
           Chopped
  1 1/2 tb Butter
      2 ts Flour
    1/3 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Tarragon
           Dash nutmeg
           Dash cayenne
  1 1/2    (10 oz ea) frozen chopped
           Spinach, thawed but NOT
           Drained
      2 c  Chicken broth
    3/4 c  Yogurt
           Half lemon slices for
           Garnish
 
  In 3 quart saucepan, saute onion in butter until soft but not brown.
  Mix in flour, salt, tarragon, nutmeg and cayenne. Cook until bubbly.
  Mix in spinach, then broth. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer,
  uncovered, 15 minutes.
  
  Place in blender, about 1/3 at a time (I used a hand blender right in
  the pot) and puree. Return to saucepan. Add yogurt, whisking until
  smooth and blended. Heat just until steaming. (Do not boil.) Add
  salt, if needed. Serve with a lemon slice on top of each serving.
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesy Spinach Bake
 Categories: Italian, Cheese/eggs, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     15 oz Ricotta cheese
     10 oz Pkg frozen chopped spinach,
           Thawed and well drained
      1 c  (4 oz) shredded Mozzarella
           Cheese
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Cheesy Spinach Bake Preheat
  oven t 350 degrees. Grease an 8 inch square pan. Combine ricotta,
  spinach, Mozzarella, wheat germ, eggs, onion, Parmesan and nutmeg.
  Spread into pan. Bake 25-30 minutes, until heated through. Let stand
  5 minutes before serving. Cut into 2 1/2 inch squares. If desired,
  sprinkle with additional wheat germ.
  
  Microwave directions:
  
  Place mixture in a microwavable 8 inch square pan. Cover with plastic
  wrap; vent. Microcook on HIGH 8-9 minutes, until heated through,
  rotating dish a half turn after 4 minutes. Let stand 5 minutes before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts W/zucchini in Romaine
 Categories: Poultry, Microwave, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Chicken breast halves,
           (about 1 lb), boned and
           Skinned
      4    Romaine lettuce leaves
  1 1/3 ts Salt
  1 1/3 ts Ground nutmeg
      2    Zucchini (about 1/2 lb),
           Cut into 3" x 1/4" strips
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Unsalted butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    3/4 c  Light cream
      2 tb Tomato paste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sandy Colby Originally from: The Daily
  Tribune, "Micro Magic" column, written by Norma Schomwetter This was
  in Today's local paper, "The Daily Tribune", in a weekly column
  called _Micro Magic_, written by Norma Schomwetter. The recipe was
  taken from a book titled _Microwave Entertaining_ by Marcia Cone and
  Thelma Snyder. It sounded so good, I thought I'd pass it along.
  Chicken breasts, Zucchini in Romaine Leaves dash cayenne pepper
  
  Place chicken between 2 sheets of plastic wrap; flatten to about
  1/4"; set aside. Place romaine leaves on a 10" round micro proof
  platter. Cover tightly with vented plastic wrap. Microwave on HIGH
  35-50 seconds or until pliable. Place a chicken breast half on each
  leaf, sprinkle with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Divide zucchini strips
  into 4 bunches and place at the top of each chicken breast. Starting
  at the end with the zucchini, roll the lettuce and chicken toward the
  stem of the lettuce. Place rolls seam side down in a circle on the
  10" platter. Cover tightly again, and microwave on HIGH 8-10 minutes,
  or until chicken is cooked through. Drain juices. Save in a 2 C
  measure. Let chicken stand, covered. To the 2 C measure, add the
  remaining ingredients and microwave on HIGH 3-5 minutes. To serve,
  spoon 2 Tbsp of sauce onto each plate.
  
  (sjc: the ingredients don't call for any pepper except that of the
  cayenne at the end of the ingredients list. I assume the cayenne goes
  into the sauce, and the pepper called for earlier would be black
  pepper, even though it's not mentioned. Any comments?)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minced Barbeque
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Fresh pork, shoulder or
           Ham (4 to 6 lbs)
    1/4 ts 1/2 tsp. garlic
      1    Onion (sliced)
    1/2 ts White vinegar
    1/4 c  Salt (or less)
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Red pepper (crushed or
           Cayenne)
      1 tb Hot sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Melvin Hatcher Re: Minced Barbeque A few
  days ago someone requested for me to repost this minced barbeque
  recipe. MINCED BARBEQUE Add enough water to cover meat. Soak for 8 to
  10 hrs
  
  1. Wash meat rinse, and soak. 2. After soaking, boil meat in the
  mixture until done. Make sure fat
    side is facing up. 3. As meat boil taste mixture for vinegar
  flavor, add vinegar to taste. 4. Do not cook meat until mushy, must
  be able to chop or cube meat easily. 5. Let meat cool in mixture,
  remove chop and/or cube. 6. Place chopped meat in large pan or
  skillet. 7. Taste meat to see if extra seasoning are required. 8. Add
  about 1 tablespoon of ketchup,vinegar,sugar,pepper,and salt to
     taste.
  
  P.S. If you use the whole bottle of vinegar, it's ok.
  
  Serve with cole slaw, or baked beans.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buffalo-Style Chicken Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12    Chicken wings (about 2 lbs)
    1/2 c  All purpose flour
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Sliced green onions
      1 md Clove garlic, finely
           Chopped
      1 c  (8 ounces) WISHBONE Sweet
           N' Spicy French Dressing
      1 ts Thyme leaves
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce **
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marleen Madar Here is a version I have
  here.... Buffalo-Style Chicken Wings Oil WISHBONE Chunky Blue Cheese
  Dressing Celery Sticks
  
  **  What you can do to make it spicier
  
  First Alarm Chicken Wings: Add 1 teaspoon hot pepper sauce. Second
  Alarm Chicken Wings: Add 1-1/2 teaspoons hot pepper sauce. Third
  Alarm Chicken Wings: Add 2 teaspoons of Hot pepper sauce.
  
  In deep-fat fryer or large heavy skillet, heat oil to 375 degrees.
  Cut tips off chicken wings (save tips for soup.) Halve chicken wings
  at joint. Lightly coat chicken with flour, then carefully drop
  chicken, a few at a time into hot oil. Fry, turning occasionally, 15
  minutes or until golden brown. Drain on paper towels.
  
  Meanwhile, in large skillet, melt butter and cook green onions with
  garlic over medium heat, stirring occasionally, 3 minutes or until
  onions are tender. Remove from heat and stir in sweet n' spicy French
  dressing, thyme, oregano, cumin, and hot pepper sauce. Add chicken
  and toss to coat.
  
  Serve with chunky blue cheese dressing and celery sticks.
  
  Makes 24
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Graesht Mehl Grumbara Supp
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes
      3 tb Flour
      3 c  Water
      3 tb Butter
      3 c  Milk
           Salt
           Pepper
           Parsley
 
  Contributed to the echo by: George Hogg Originally from: "Food that
  Really Schmecks" GRAESHT MEHL GRUMBARA SUPP (Brown Flour Potato Soup)
  ~- a real Old Mennonite Soup.
  
  Pell and cut the potatoes in slices. Boil them in salted water until
  tender. Add the milk and let simmer. Meanwhile brown the flour in the
  melted butter, stirring all the time at low heat; add it to the soup,
  keep stirring till the mixture thickens. Sprinkle with parsley and
  pepper and serve with buttered crumbs, or squares of fried bread, or
  pretzels on top. You might boil some sliced onion with the potatoes,
  if you like.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Manicotti Filling
 Categories: Italian, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Container whole or skim
           Milk ricotta cheese
      1 oz Chunk whole-milk mozzarella
           Cheese, shredded
      1 oz Pkg. frozen chopped spinach
           Thawed and squeezed as dry
           As possible
    1/2 c  Fresh grated Parmesan cheese
      4 lg Eggs, slightly beaten
    1/2 c  Fresh snipped parsley
    1/2 c  Scallions sliced thin
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper to
           Taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephanie DiCamillo MANICOTTI FILLING
  
  Saute scallions in 2 tablespoons olive oil in a small frying pan for
  about 5 minutes (if desired, you can use them uncooked as well).
  Meanwhile, in a large bowl whisk eggs slightly. Add remaining
  ingredients to bowl, including scallions, stirring to mix with a
  large heavy spoon. NOTE: When adding spinach, try to break it up as
  you add it, mixing will be much easier.
  
  Cook pre-packaged Manicotti shells following package directions, only
  UNDERcook them by about 2 minutes. (Undercooking will make them less
  likely to break, and they will absorb any excess moisture released by
  the cheeses during baking.)
  
  Stuff manicotti carefully with filling. Place a little bit of sauce in
  bottom of baking dish, and place manicotti side by side in one layer
  in baking dish. Spoon sauce over, sprinkle with a little additional
  Parmesan cheese. Cover and bake at 325 degrees for 30 minutes,
  uncover and bake 10 minutes more until bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pralines
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4    Stick Butter (6 T.)
    3/4 c  Light Brown Sugar, packed
  1 1/2 c  Pecans, roasted
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass Chef Joe Cahn of The New
  Orleans School of Cooking and Louisiana General Store heard about
  this echo and gave my sister some recipes for me to post. I thought
  y'all might like this praline recipe, as I haven't seen one on here.
  PRALINES 1. Combine all ingredients except vanilla and bring to a
  boil. (Note: To roast pecans, bake them on a sheet pan at 350 degrees
  for 20-25 minutes, until slightly browned and smell permeates.)
  
  2. Cook to soft ball stage (238-240 degrees), stirring constantly.
  
  3. Remove from heat, and add vanilla. Stir to cool until mixture
  thickens, becomes creamy and cloudy, and pecans stay suspended in
  mixture.
  
  4. Spoon out on buttered wax paper, aluminum foil or parchment paper.
  
  Makes 1-50 (!!) pralines, depending on size. When using wax paper, be
  sure to buffer with newspaper, as hot wax will transfer onto whatever
  is beneath it.
  
  He also gave me a history of Pralines if anyone is interested.
  
  P.S. The New Orleans School of Cooking is a great place for visitors
  to go. Joe Cahn conducts a great cooking class (classics like bread
  pudding, gumbo, jambalaya, etc) which includes a lot of his humor.
  You then get to eat what he cooked. It's reasonably priced and I've
  never heard from a disappointed "attendee".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Peppers
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Rice
      3 lg Green bell peppers
      1 lb Ground meat
      1    Onion, chopped
      8 oz Tomato sauce or spaghetti
           Sauce
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary Cook rice. Remove top and
  insides from peppers and parboil 5 minutes. Brown ground meat and
  onions. Combine rice, meat, onions, and tomato sauce. Stuff into
  peppers.
  
  These freeze really well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple-Onion Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Vegetable, Apples
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Sweet delicious apples,
           Peeled, cored and sliced
      2    Vidalia onions, peeled and
           Thinly sliced
      3 tb Butter
      1 c  Water
      1    Chicken bouillon cube
      1 c  Graham cracker crumbs
           Salt (to taste if apples
           Are tart)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Cheryl Johns Originally from "Sweet
  Vidalia Onions - Blue Ribbon Recipes" Okay, folks, our favorite time
  of year has come. The Vidalia onions have reached Virgina. I just
  bought a 10 pound bag and a cookbook called Sweet Vidalia Onions -
  Blue Ribbon Recipes. I'll post a few recipes tonight that I think
  look interesting. Remember I just got the book tonight so I haven't
  tried any of them. Peel, core and slice apples into 1/4 inch slices.
  Peel and thinly slice onions. Layer the onion slices in a buttered 9
  1/2 inch pyrex pie plate. Put a layer of apples on onion slices,
  another layer of onions, ending with apples. Pour one cup of bouillon
  over the layers, then sprinkle cracker crumbs on top. Drizzle melted
  butter over the crumbs. Bake in oven at 350 degrees for 30 minutes or
  until top has browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Onion Buttered Hot Rolls
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Loaf frozen "Bake at Home"
           Bread dough
      1    Butter mixture

MMMMM---------------------SWEET ONION BUTTER--------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter, melted
    1/4 c  Finely grated Vidalia onion
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      2 ea Sprigs parsley, minced
           (optional)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Cheryl Johns Originally from: "Sweet
  Vidalia Onions - Blue Ribbon Recipes"
  
  Place frozen loaf on greased baking pan to thaw and rise at room
  temperature. Cover with wax paper. Let dough rise to half of the
  volume, about 2-1/2 hours.
  
  Cut dough with sharp knife in pieces of 1-1/2 inch diameter. Roll
  pieces of dough in balls.
  
  Place on baking sheet about 2 inches apart. Cover with wax paper. Let
  rolls rise until double in size, about 2 hours.
  
  Bake in preheated oven at 375 degrees for 25 minutes or until golden
  brown.
  
  Sweet Onion Butter:
  
  Mix ingredients, stir well. Mixture will keep for days in
  refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Spinach Bake
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Frozen chopped spinach,
           (10 oz) cooked and drained
      2 c  Cooked rice
      2 c  Shredded American Cheese
      4    Eggs, beaten
    1/4 c  Melted butter
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 ts Worcester sauce
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Rosemary leaves
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Cheryl Johns Herbed Spinach Bake Combine
  ingredients: mix well. Use margarine to grease baking dish. Pour
  mixture in dish. Bake at 350 degrees for 40-45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage & Pork Jambalaya
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Pork, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Pork Butt, cubed
      3 lb Sausage, sliced
      1 cn Franco-American Brown Gravy
      2    Onions diced
      1    Bunch Shallots diced
      5 c  Rice
           Water

MMMMM-------------------------SEASONINGS------------------------------
           Salt
           Cayenne pepper
           Tiger sauce
           Hot sauce
           Tony's Chachere's Seasoning
           Kitchen Bouquet
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephen Brown This recipe for Jambalaya
  comes from my father-in-law, who won the Oak Alley Jambalaya cooking
  contest with it twice. Even this transplanted Yankee has had good
  luck with it. Sausage & Pork Jambalaya
  
  Brown the pork in a large pot with a small amount of water on the
  bottom to prevent sticking. Cover, stir occasionally. Add Onions, and
  continue to saute. When onions are transparent, add sausage, and
  continue to saute. When the meats are cooked, add the brown gravy and
  cook a few more minutes. Add the water -- You need to add an *equal*
  amount of water as you are using rice. 5 Cups, in this case. (Usually
  the rice is measured by the pound, in which case you would pour into
  a bowl and add that amount of water). Allow the water to heat, then
  turn off the heat and cover. Allow the grease to rise to the top.
  Skim off the grease with a large spoon. Conserve the grease. After
  skimming the grease, add an amount of water equal to the amount of
  grease to replace the liquid lost. Bring to almost boiling, and add
  your seasonings. You can use whatever seasonings you want, but the
  key is that it should be saltier and hotter now than you want the
  finished product. Heat the spices a few minutes, and taste. Add more
  spices until you are happy with the outcome. At this point you can
  add the shallots. (We save the greens until now, since they float,
  and they would be in the way of tasting the spices). One optional
  step is to add a small amount of Kitchen Bouquet to give the
  Jambalaya a rich brown color. Bring to a rolling boil. Add the rice
  all at once and stir. Continue with high heat and stirring often
  until the mixture becomes milky with the rice. Reduce the heat
  slightly, and cover. Now you only want to open and stir the rice
  occasionally, as the rice is steaming. When removing the cover, do
  not allow the water to drip back into the pot. Wipe the lid before
  returning the lid to the pot. Stir quickly, but be sure to scrape the
  bottom to prevent sticking. This is really the tricky part... As the
  liquid drys up, you need to reduce the heat even further and allow
  the rice to finish steaming. Stir every few minutes, scraping bottom.
  The Jambalaya is finished when the rice is tender and "done."
  
  This recipe can be increased or reduced proportionally. The first
  time I made it I used 2 pounds of rice. The second time used 35
  pounds!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread Pudding & Whiskey Sauce
 Categories: Bread, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1    10-oz. loaf stale French
           Bread, crumbled (or 6-8
           Cups any type bread)
      4 c  Milk
      2 c  Sugar
      8 tb Butter, melted
      3    Eggs
      2 tb Vanilla
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Coconut
      1 c  Chopped Pecans
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Nutmeg

MMMMM-----------------------WHISKEY SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter (1 stick)
  1 1/2 c  Powdered Sugar
      2    Egg Yolks
    1/2 c  Bourbon (to taste)
           (or Rum!!)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass BREAD PUDDING Combine all
  ingredients; mixture should be very moist but not soupy. Pour into
  buttered 9x12' or larger baking dish. Place into non-preheated oven.
  Bake at 350 degrees for approximately 1 hour and until top is golden
  brown. Serve warm with Whiskey Sauce (below).
  
  WHISKEY SAUCE
  
  Cream butter and sugar over medium heat until all butter is absorbed.
  Remove from heat and blend in egg yolk. Pour in bourbon gradually to
  your own taste, stirring constantly. Sauce will thicken as it cools.
  Serve warm over warm bread pudding.
  
  NOTE: For a variety of sauces, just substitute your favorite fruit
  juice or liqueur to complement your bread pudding.
  
  On a personal note, a lemon sauce or a hard sauce is great with Bread
  Pudding too.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti and Crabmeat #9
 Categories: Seafood, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil (Extra Virgin)
      2 cl Garlic
    1/4 c  Chopped celery
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onions
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      1 ts Tomato sauce
      1 cn Solid pack tomatos
      1 ts Black pepper
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 c  Water (possibly)
      1 lb Fresh crabmeat
    1/4 c  Spanish sherry
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marc Lepine Originally from: Fisherman's
  Wharf in San Francisco Spaghetti and Crabmeat #9 (From Fisherman's
  Wharf in San Francisco) Parmesan Cheese
  
  Saute onion, celery, garlic, and parsley in oil until golden brown.
  Add tomatos, tomato sauce, water (if too thick), and seasonings.
  Simmer over low heat for at least 1 hour. If longer simmering time
  (2-3 hours) is desired, add water to maintain desired consistency.
  Add crabmeat and wine and simmer for 10 min. Cook and drain angel
  hair pasta and add to sauce. Place on serving platter and top with a
  lot of Parmesan cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ricotta Torte
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
  1 1/2 lb Ricotta cheese
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
    1/2 c  Half & Half
      1 tb Rum or brandy
    1/2 tb Vanilla
    1/2 c  Assorted candied fruits
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sue Sanna Here's the Ricotta Torta Recipe:
  recipe for 2 crust pie Beat eggs until light and add 1/2 t. salt and
  1 c. Powdered sugar, adding one tablespoon at a time and continuing
  to beat uniterruptedly. This is best done in an electric blender. Add
  3 T. cornstarch, beating until the mixture is smooth and thick.
  
  Force the ricotta cheese through a fine sieve. Combine with softened
  cream cheese and beat in 1/2 c. half and half, adding this cheese
  mixture to egg mixture while beating continuously. The success of
  this torta lies in the thorough beating. Flavor with 1 T. brandy or
  rum. Mix thoroughly, then fold in 1/2 c. chopped assorted candied
  fruit. Pour into pie shell.
  
  Cover with second pie pastry and flute. Bake in preheated oven for 1
  hour. Turn off the heat and allow the cake to remain in the oven with
  the door closed for 3/4 of an hour. Let cool, but DO NOT REFRIGERATE
  before serving. Decorate the top with candied fruit, and powdered
  sugar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frozen Passion
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 cn (14 oz) Sweetened
           Condensed Milk
      1    2-litre bottle OR
      5    (12 oz) cans carbonated
           Beverage, any flavor
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Tiffany Hall-Graham ICE CREAM FREEZER
  METHOD: In ice cream freezer container, combine ingredients; mix
  well. Freeze according to manufacturer's instructions. Store
  leftovers in freezer.
  
  REFRIGERATOR-FREEZER METHOD: In large bowl, combine ingredients. Turn
  into 13 x 9 inch baking pan; freeze to a firm mush, about 1 hour.
  Break into pieces and turn into large mixer bowl. Beat until smooth.
  Return to pan; cover. Freeze well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Seasoning
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      1 tb Garlic powder
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Marjoram
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Dried parsley
      1 ts Savory
      1 ts Mace
      1 ts Onion powder
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Sage
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Gigi Mcgrath Try these; they're a lot
  cheaper than the mixes you buy. Leave out any spices you don't like,
  and double those you do. Herb Seasoning Use in casseroles, stews, or
  fresh vegetable dishes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Herb Seasoning
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  4 1/2 tb Basil
  3 3/4 tb Oregano
  1 1/2 tb Powdered black pepper
  1 1/2 tb Granulated onion
  1 1/2 tb Celery seed
  1 1/2 tb Basil
    1/2 ts Granulated garlic
    1/2 ts Lemon rind, grated
 
  Use to season fish, chicken, turkey.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato-Cucumber Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Tomato, cut into about 18
           Pieces (cut in half, then
           Each half in thirds
           Sideways and lengthwise)
      1    Cucumber, peeled and thinly
           Sliced
    1/3 lg Onion, thinly sliced
      3 tb Vinegar
      3 tb Sugar
      3 tb Water
           Salt and pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary The weather here is feeling
  like spring and inspired me to make this salad. I know it's simple,
  but I LOVE simple food and there seem to be lots of beginning cooks
  on the echo now. TOMATO-CUCUMBER SALAD
  
  Combine ingredients and marinate at least 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cross Creek Key Lime Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn Eagle Brand sweetened
           Condensed milk
    1/3 c  Key Lime juice (you can
           Buy it in a bottle)
      3    Egg yolks, beaten
  1 1/2 ts 151 proof rum
      1    9-inch graham cracker
           Crust
    1/2 ts Cream whipped with 2
           Tablespoons confectioner's
           Sugar and 1
           Zest of 6 Key Limes (grated
           Peel)
           Dash of orange bitters
      1 tb Rum
 
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sonoran Rice
 Categories: Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     28 cn Whole peeled tomatos
      2 tb Tomato juice
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped onions
      1 ts Diced green chilies
      2 tb Safflower oil
      1    Jalapeno chili
      2 ts Chopped fresh basil
      2 ts Garlic powder
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts White pepper
    3/4 ts Ground coriander
  1 1/2 c  Uncooked rice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Keith Ker Preheat oven to 375 degrees.
  Drain and chop the whole, peeled tomatos. Remove the seeds from the
  jalapeno chili and chop fine. Cover the bottom of casserole with oil.
  Combine all ingredients but rice in casserole. Stir over high heat 1
  minute, reduce heat to medium. Add rice, cover, and transfer to oven.
  Bake until liquid is absorbed, about 35 minutes.
  
  Servings: 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Onions, chopped
      1    Leek, white part only,
           Thinly sliced
      3    Ribs celery, diced
      4    Waxy boiling potatoes,
           Peeled and diced
      1 ts Sweet paprika
      6 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1 sm Bay leaf
      5    Sprigs parsley tied
           Together with
           Kitchen string
      1 ts Worchestershire sauce
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Minced fresh parsley leaves
           (optional)
 
  Place the butter and onion in a large soup kettle, set over low heat
  and cook until onions have softened, about 5 t 8 minutes. Increase
  the heat to medium, add the leek and stir-cook 1 minute. Add the
  potatoes and paprika; stir-cook 30 seconds. Stir in the broth, thyme,
  herb bundle, and Worchestershire sauce. Bring the soup base to a
  boil, then cover and simmer 50 minutes, or until the potatoes are
  tender. Scoop out about 1 cup of the vegetables and mash them; then
  return them to the pot. Discard the herb bundle. (The soup may be
  prepared in advance up to this point.) Stir in the heavy cream,
  season with salt and pepper to taste, and let the soup cook without
  simmering until hot throughout. Sprinkle with fresh parsley and serve
  immediately.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/16/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Fred Peters Originally from: Washington Post, January 11, 1989
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Beef Liver
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 80 servings
 
      1 lb Sliced beef liver
           French dressing
 
  I love liver. One of my favorite ways to prepare it is broiling. I
  place the liver on the broiler pan, cover it with bottled french
  dressing and broil about three minutes. Turn it over, cover with more
  dressing, and broil another three minutes.
  
         SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/16/90 Contributed to the echo
  by: Joe Chamberlain
  
  I found the most common problem with cooking liver is over cooking
  it, why in the world does it have to be cooked like shoe leather?
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Skillet Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Slices Bacon
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Water
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
           Dash pepper
    1/2 qt Torn lettuce
 
  Fry bacon until crisp, remove from skillet and drain on paper towels.
  Combine vinegar, water, sugar, and salt to fat in skillet and heat to
  boiling. Cool slightly and pour over lettuce. Crumble bacon on top
  and toss with lettuce. Serve at once. A chopped hard cooked egg or
  1/4 C. finely sliced green onion may be used as garnish if desired.
  
  Variation contributed by: Joe Chamberlain
  
  A great variation on this in the spring is to replace the lettuce with
  fresh endive. My daddy used to have me pick it out of the yard 2-3
  times each spring when I was a kid.
  
         SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/16/90 Contributed to the echo
  by: Joan Pierce
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Sauces #1
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Mayonnaise
           Heinz chili sauce
 
  Mix mayonnaise and Heinz chili sauce until a pretty pink color
  (sorry, I don't know quantities.) Use sauce to dip the meaty ends of
  the leaves in.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Sauces #2
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Non-fat yogurt
      1 tb Prepared horseradish
      1 pn Powdered mustard
 
  Mix yogurt with horseradish and mustard. Use other seasoning to
  taste. Mix well, refrigerate while artichoke is steaming.
  
         SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/16/90 Contributed to the echo
  by: Blanche Nonken & Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Finnish Logs
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1    Egg slightly beaten
      1 ts Almond extract
    1/4 c  Almonds, finely chopped
      2 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Sugar + 1/4 t
 
  Beat butter with the 1/3 cup sugar and almond extract until light and
  fluffy. Add flour and salt and mix well with hands. On a lightly
  floured surface, shape the dough into a roll 6 inches long. Cut the
  roll lengthwise into 6 equal parts. Shape each of the 6 parts into a
  role 12 inches long and 3/4 inch in diameter. Cut each of these rolls
  into 6 (2 inch long) pieces. Place them on a greased cookie sheet, 1
  inch apart. Mix the 1/4 t of sugar with the chopped almonds. Brush
  logs lightly with the egg and sprinkle with mixture of almonds and
  sugar. Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until lightly brown. Cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ark Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      2    Onions (peeled and chopped)
      2    Leeks (sliced)
      2    Md turnips (cubed)
      2    Peeled potatoes (cubed)
      2    Shallots (chopped)
      2    Stalks celery (sliced)
      2    Carrots (sliced)
      2 cl Garlic (halved)
      2    Sprigs parsley
      2 cn Chicken broth
      2 c  Half-and-half
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Dill weed to taste (opt.)
 
  Saute all the vegetables in a large soup pot with the 2 tablespoons
  butter until vegetables are limp. Add chicken broth and simmer until
  turnips are tender. Cool slightly, then process a little at a time
  through a blender. Return soup to the pot and add the half-and-half.
  Re-heat gently and serve hot, garnished with a sprig of fresh dill.
  Submitted by: Mayor Kerry Groom Kirschner of Sarasota, Florida
         SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/18/90
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dishwasher Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 5 servings
 
     20    Jumbo shrimp
      1    Onion (sliced)
      2    Lemons (sliced)
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Freshly ground pepper
      1 tb Paprika
      2 cl Garlic (chopped)
 
  Make sure your dishwasher is clean. Prepare 4 double layers of heavy
  duty aluminum large enough to wrap shrimp and spices airtight.
  Arrange 2 slices of onion on each foil, then 5 shrimp. Distribute
  salt, pepper, paprika, and chopped garlic evenly among the 4 shrimp
  servings. Place 2 lemon slices on each serving and distribute juice
  of second lemon evenly among the four servings. Wrap servings
  tightly, folding edges as you would a package. Load packages on top
  shelf of dishwasher. Run through rinse cycle. When cycle is finished,
  you will have steamed shrimp and amazed guests.
  
  This recipe is more than delicious. It is fun and it will amaze your
  guests. You can adapt the recipe, using white fish filets and various
  vegetables such as tomatos and zucchini. Caution: Make certain foil
  packages are wrapped tightly and that your dishwasher is cleaned of
  soap residue. (This paragraph is also from the cookbook).
         SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/18/90 Contributed to the echo
  by: Janice Norman Submitted by Mayro Luther Jones, Corpus Christi,
  Texas
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Judas (Julius) #1
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Fresh orange juice
    1/2 c  Nonfat dry milk powder
      2 tb Sugar (or to taste)
           Few drops vanilla
    1/2 c  Crushed or shaved ice
      1    Raw egg (optional)
 
  Put all ingredients in blender and blend a few minutes until frothy.
  
  Makes 12 ounces.
         SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/18/90 Contributed to the echo
  by: Stephen Ceideburg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Judas (Julius) #2
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 pk (3 3/4 oz) instant vanilla
           Pudding or pudding-pie
           Filling powder
      1    Egg white
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 c  Fresh orange juice
 
  Add all to blender and whirl one minute. A 2 oz package of vanilla
  instant breakfast drink powder may be substituted for the pudding
  stuff.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Judas (Julius) #3
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Orange juice
      1    Envelope of Dream Whip
           Powder
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1    Egg OR omit egg and add
    1/4 c  Orange sherbet
 
  Whirl in blender 1 minute and serve over ice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Curry Paste/nam Prik Kaeng Khiew
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Coriander seeds
      6    Fresh green chilies,
           Chopped
      1 tb Chopped lemon grass
      1 ts Chopped coriander root
      1 tb Chopped shallots
      1 tb Chopped garlic
      1 ts Chopped galangal
      7    Peppercorns
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Shrimp paste
 
  Place the cumin and coriander seeds in a pan, without adding any oil.
  Dry-fry them, stirring, for 1-2 minutes until they are aromatic and
  slightly browned. Pound them with the remaining ingredients to
  produce a fine paste.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/18/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Stephen Ceideburg Originally from: "Discover Thai Cooking", by
  Chaslin, Canungmai and Tettoni; Times Edition, Singapore, 1987
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Phanang Curry Paste/nam Prik Kaeng Phana
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      9 lg Dried red chilies
      7    Shallots, chopped
      6 cl Garlic
      2 ts Coriander roots
     15    Pepper corns
      3    Slivers galangal
      2    Stalks lemon grass, chopped
      1 tb Coriander seeds
      1 tb Cumin seeds
      1 ts Shrimp paste
      1 ts Salt
 
  Coarsely chop the chilies and soak in water for 10 minutes. Drain.
  Pound together all the ingredients to produce a fine paste.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/18/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Stephen Ceideburg Originally from: "Discover Thai Cooking", by
  Chaslin, Canungmai and Tettoni; Times Edition, Singapore, 1987
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Curry Paste/nam Prik Kaeng Som
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10    Dried chilies
      5    Shallots, chopped
      1 tb Shrimp paste
      1 tb Salt
 
  Coarsely chop the chilies and soak in water for 10 minutes. Drain.
  Pound all the ingredients together to produce a fine paste which goes
  well with fish and vegetables.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/18/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Stephen Ceideburg Originally from: "Discover Thai Cooking", by
  Chaslin, Canungmai and Tettoni; Times Edition, Singapore, 1987
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Devils Food Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sifted cake flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
      2    Eggs, well beaten
    1/2 c  Boiling water
      2 oz Bitter chocolate
      1 ts Soda
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt 3 times. Cream butter and sugar.
  Add well-beaten eggs to creamed mixture. Then add the flour and milk
  alternately to the butter-sugar-egg mixture. Melt chocolate with
  boiling water over low heat; add soda and stir well. Cool chocolate
  before adding it to the batter. Then stir in vanilla. Grease cake
  pans and line them with waxed paper (two 9 inch pans). Bake at 350
  degrees for 25 minutes. (Batter will be thin.) Frost with vanilla
  icing.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/19/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Ellen Cleary Originally from: "The Charlotte Cookbook", by Jr. League
  of Charlotte, N. C.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley Casserole #1
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
      2 md Onions, chopped
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
  1 1/2 c  Pearl barley
      3 c  Chicken or beef broth
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Garnish: chopped parsley
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Melt butter in a large casserole. Saute
  onions 2 minutes over medium heat. Add mushrooms and saute 5-7
  minutes more. Add barley. Cook until lightly browned. Add 2 cups of
  broth, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil. Cover, reduce heat, and bake
  45 minutes. Add remaining 1 cup of broth. Return to oven and bake 30
  minutes more. Garnish with chopped parsley.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/19/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley Casserole #2
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms
      1 lg Onion, finely chopped
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Barley
           Salt and pepper
      3 c  Beef broth
           Slivered almonds, toasted
 
  Saute mushrooms and onions in butter. Don't let onions brown. Mix in
  barley, salt and pepper. Pour into buttered 1 1/2 qt casserole. Cover
  with broth to 1/2 inch above barley. Cover and bake at 350 degrees
  for 45 minutes, until liquid is absorbed and barley is tender.
  Garnish with almonds.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/19/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Salad (Marge)
 Categories: Salad, Dressing
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Spinach, cleaned, patted
           Dry, torn into pieces
           Sliced raw mushrooms, (as
           Much as you can afford!)
      6    Slices bacon, fried,
           Drained, and crumbled
      6    Hardboiled eggs, chilled
           And sliced
           Radishes, one bag, sliced,
           (again, as many as you have)
      1    Sliced red onion, optional

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 pt Sour cream
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1    Envelope Good Seasons GARLIC
           CHEESE dressing mix (no
           Substitution on this one)
 
  Mix the dressing ingredients, let stand while you prepare the other
  ingredients. Toss and serve.
  
  This recipe is one of the most requested I have.
  
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/19/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Ellen Cleary
  
  I used to make this when I had to serve a BIG crowd, or take
  something to a potluck. Warning, the dressing, all by itself, tastes
  FAR too garlicky. Somehow it works when all mixed, tho. And the salad
  keeps very well, a good make-ahead...up to 12 hours ahead or so:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Cheese Pie
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    9 inch pie shell
      1 pk (10 oz) frozen spinach
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Grated Monterey Jack OR
           Mozzarella cheese
           Salt and pepper
 
  Bake the pie shell. Cook the spinach and drain it. Preheat oven to 350
  degrees.
  
  In a medium saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Gradually
  stir in flour. When it thickens, stir in cream. Add 1/2 cup of cheese
  and stir until it is melted. Fold in spinach, salt and pepper. Pour
  into pie shell. Sprinkle the top with the remaining cheese.
  
  Bake for 10-15 minutes. SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 04/19/90
  Contributed to the echo by: Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Eggplants, Total Weight
           About 1 Lb., Washed
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice
    1/4 c  Or Less Olive Oil
    1/4 c  Chopped Parsley
      2 cl Garlic Crushed
           Black Pepper
           Serve With Melba Toast or
           Crudites.
           (May add 1 T. Tahini Before
           Pureeing.)
 
  1.  Preheat the oven To 400.  Put the eggplants On a Baking Sheet and
  bake for About 40 Minutes, until Soft.  Remove from the oven and
  Leave until Completely Cold. 2. Remove the Stalks from the eggplants.
  3. Puree the eggplants in a Processor With the Lemon Juice, Oil and
  Parsley and Garlic (or Chop the eggplants Very Finely By Hand and
  Mash and Mix With the Other Ingredients.)  Season To Taste. 4. Serve
  the Dip on Individual Plates, Garnished With Parsley, Lemon Wedges
  and Extra Oil(Not Necessary). or Spoon It Into a Small Bowl and
  Garnish Before Serving With Melba Toast.
    (Eggplant Is Good Grilled until Charred All Over- 20 To 30 Min.
  Scrape Off the Skin.  Rinse and Then Follow the Recipe Above.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hummus (Again)
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  Dried Chick Peas Cooked or
           One 15-Ounce Can
    1/2 cl Garlic Crushed
      1 tb Tahini
      3 tb Olive Oil
      2 tb Lemon Juice
           Black Pepper
           Garnish: Olive Oil,
           Paprika, Black Olives,
           Lemon Wedge.
 
   1.  Drain the Chick Peas, Reserving the Liquid.  Place Chick Peas in
  a Processor With All the Other Ingredients and Blend until the
  Mixture Is Smooth.
   2.  Alternatively, Mash the Chick Peas AS Smoothly AS Possible and
  Then Beat in the Other Ingredients To Make a Smoothish Mixture.
   3.  add Enough Of the Reserved Liquid To Give a Light,
  Softconsistency Like Softly Whipped Cream. 4. Spoon Hummus Onto a
  Plate and Level It With a Knife So That It Is About 1/2 Inch Deep.
  Pour a Little Olive Oil Over the Top, Then Sprinkle With Paprika and
  Garnish With Olives and Lemon Wedges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach & Fennel Pastries
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      8    Sheets Phyllo Pastry
      6 tb Melted Oleo

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1    Onion Chopped
      1 tb Olive Oil
      1 c  Frozen Spinach, Thawed and
           Squeezed Dry AS Possible,
           Cooked
      2 tb Chopped Parsley
      1 ts Fennel Seed
           Black Pepper
 
   1.  Saute the Onion in Olive Oil until Soft But Not Browned. Remove
  from the Heat; add the Cooked Spinach, Chopped Parsley and Fennel
  Seed. Mix Well, Then Season To Taste.
   2. Preheat oven To 375.
   3. Unroll Phyllo and Spread Them Out Flat in a Pile With a Damp
  Cloth Over Them.
   4.  Take 1 Phyllo Sheat, Spread It Out on a Board and Brush the Top
  Surface All Over With .Eted Ole.  Lay Another Phyllo Pastry Sheet on
  Top Andd Brush With More Ole.  Then Make 4 Equally Spaced Cuts from
  One Short End To the Other So You End Up With 5 Long Strips.
   5. Place a Teasponn Of Filling About 1 Inch from the Top Of One Of
  the Strips and Fold One Of the Top Corners Over It Making a
  Triangular Shape. Then Fold the Triangle Down from the Base and Then
  At An Angle Again and Continue until You End Up With a Neat Layered
  Triangle. Place on a Baking Sheet.
   6. Continue With the Rest Of the Phyllo and Filling in this Way
  until They Are All Used Up.  Then Brush the Triangles With Oleo.bake
  for About 15 Min., until the Pastry Is Golden-Brown and Crisp and
  Filling Piping Hot. Serve Immediately With Parsley Sprigs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Grape Leaves (Vegetarian)
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 36 servings
 
     36    Grape Leaves
  1 1/4 c  Long-Grain Brown Rice
      1 lg Onion Chopped
      2 tb Chopped Parsley
      2    Tomatoes Peeled & Chopped
    1/2 c  Pine Nuts
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2 ts Cinnamon or Allspice
      2    Crushed Garlic Cloves
           Black Pepper
      6 tb Olive Oiil
    1/2 c  (Generous) Water
           Juice Of 1-2 Lemons.
 
    1.  Drain Leaves and Rinse Under Cold Water & Drain Again.
    2.  Half Fill a Large Saucepan With Water, add the Rice and Boil
  for 10 Min., Then Drain and Mix With the Onion, Parsley, Tomatoes,
  Pine Nuts, Raisins, Cinnamon or Allspice, Garlic       & Pepper To
  Taste.
    3.  Palce a Heaping Teaspoon Of the Filling on Each Leaf. Fold the
  Edges Over and the the Little Bundles Side By Side in a Frying Pan
  With a Lid.
    4.  Mix Together the Oil and Water and Pour Over the Grape
  Leaves.Sprinkle a Little Lemon Juice on Top.
    5.  Cook Covered Over a Very Gentle Heat for 2-2 1/2 Hours until
  the Rice and Leaves Are Tender.  add More Water If Necessary.  Cool,
  Then Chill.
   7. Arrange the Stuffed Leaves on a Large Plate or in a Shallow
  Basket With a Bowl Of Yogurt & Mint Dressing in the Middle To Dip the
  Leaves Into. Garnish With Lemon Slices.
    Yogurt & Mint Dressing: About 1/2 C. Of Yogurt and 2 T. Chopped Mint
  Mixed Together.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot and Ginger Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Onion  Chopped
      1 tb Jargarine
  1 1/2 lb Carrots Sliced
      1 ts Fresh Grated Ginger
           Black Pepper
  4 1/2 c  Light Vegetable Stock or
           Water
      1 lb Peeled & Chopped Apples,
      3 tb Sherry
 
   1.  Saute the Onion in Margarine Covered for 5 Min, Without
  Browning. Then add the Carrots & Ginger.  Cover and Cook for a
  Further 10 Min. Stir from Time To Time.
   2.  add the Stock or Water and Bring To a Boil, Then Simmer Gently
  for 15 Min, until the Carrots Are Tender.  Puree the Soup in a
  Foodprocesor, Then Sieve (Not Really Necessary).
   3.  Return the Soup To the Finsed Out Pan, Reheat Gently and Season
  To Taste With Pepper.
     (yOu May Use Parsnips Instead Of Carrots and add 1 T. Curry Powder
  To the Onions When You Saute Them.  a Swirl Of Yogurt on Top Is Good
  and add Some Crisp Croutons.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Light Vegetable Stock
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Onion
      2 cl Garlic
      1    Celery Stick
      1    Carrot
      1    Bouquet Garni.
 
   Put Into a Saucepan.  Cover Generously With Water and Bring To a
  Boil. Simmer Half Covered for About An Hour.  Then Strain.
   Other Vegetables and Flavorings Such as Leeks, Thinly Pared Lemon
  Rind, & Allspice Berries Can Be Added.  Peelings from Well-Scrubbed
  Potatoes Also Give Good Flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golden Spiced Cauliflower
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Onion Chopped
      2 tb Oil
      1    Garlic Clove Crushed
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Ground Coriander
      2    Cardamon Pods
      1 sm Cauliflower Divided
           Into Florets
    1/2 c  (Generous) Water
           Black Pepper.
 
   1.  Saute Onions in Oil in a Medium Saucepan for 8 Min.  Then add the
  Garlic, Turmeric, Corianderr and Cardamom.  Stir Over Heat for a
  Further 2-3 Min.
   2.  add the Cauliflower, Turning It Gently With a Spoon To Coat With
  the Onion and Spice Mixture.  Then add the Water and Pepper. Bring
  the Mixture To a Boil.
   3.  Cover  and Cook Gently for About 15 Min. until the Cauliflower
  Is Just Tender.  Shake the Pan from Time To Time To Prevent Sticking
  and Ensure Even Cooking.
   4.  Check the Seasoning.  Then Garnish With a Sprig Of Mint and
  Serve the Cauliflower Immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Enchilada Bake
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Corn Oil
    1/2 lg Onion, Chopped
      2 cl Garlic, Minced or
           Pressed
      1 c  Black Beans, Cooked &
           Drained & Rinsed
    1/2 c  Kernel Corn Cooked &
           Drained
      1 ts Cumin
      1 c  Prepared Salsa Divided
      4    Corn Tortillas
    1/4 c  Shredded Monterey Jack
           Cheese
 
   1.  in a Large Skilet Heat Oil Over Medium-High Heat.  Saute Onion
  and Garlic 2-3 Minutes.  add Beans, Corn, Cumin & 1/2 C. Salsa. Cook
  3 To 4 Minutes, Coarsely Mashing Beans With the Back Of a Spoon.
   2.  Tortillas Roll Better If Heated.  Moisten Lightly & Stack Between
  Pieces Of White Paper Toweling.  Wrap With Foil & Heat in 350 Degree
  oven 10 Minutes or Place Opened Package Of Tortillas in Micro-Wave
  and Microwave on High About 1 Minute.
   3.  Spoon 1/3 C. Of the Filling Onto Each Tortilla.  Roll Up. Spoon
  1/4 C. Of Salsa Into a Small Baking Dish. Arrange Tortillas, Seam
  Side Down. Top With the Remaining Salsa, Adding More If Necessary To
  Top All the Enchiladas.  Cover.  bake in a 350 Degree oven 15 To 20
  Min. Uncover; Top With Cheese.  bake 2 Minutes or Longer or until
  Cheese Is Melted.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Stir-Fry
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Red Pepper
      1 lg Green Pepper
      1 md Zucchini
      4    Celery Stalks
      1    Bunch Scallions
    1/2 lb Button Mushrooms
    1/2 c  Olive Oil
      1 c  Blanched Almonds

MMMMM-------------------SWEET & SOUR DRESSING------------------------
      2    Garlic Cloves Crushed
    1/4 c  Grated Fresh Ginger
    1/4 c  Soy Sauce
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice
      1 tb Wine Vinegar
      2    T Clear Honey
 
   1.  Cut the Peppers, Zucchini & Celery Into 2-Inch Matchsticks. Trim
  the Scallions So That Is About 1 Inch Of the Green Part Left. Slice
  the Button Mushrooms.
   2.  Next Make the Sweet & Sour Dressing;  Blend All the Ingredients
  in a Blender or Food Processor, or Mix Them in a Bowl.
   3.  Make the Stir-Fry Just Before You Want To Eat.  Heat the Oil in
  a Wok, Then Put in the Vegetables and Stir-Fry Over High Heat for 2
  Minutes, until They Are Beginning To Soften.
   4.  add the Almonds and the Sweet & Sour Mixture and Stir-Fry for a
  Further 1-2 Minutes To Heat Through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lynn's Vegetable Pasta
 Categories: Pasta, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Ricotta Cheese (May Omit)
    1/2 c  Grated Romano Cheese
      1 ts Salt
      1 md Head Cauliflower Florets
      1    Bunch Fresh Broccoli
           Florets
      1 c  Olive Oil
      6    Garlic Cloves Minced
      1 lb Mushrooms Sliced Thickly
      2 ts Salt (If Desired)
    1/2 ts Or Less Crushed Dried
           Red Pepper
      1 lb Linguine
           Grated Romano
 
  1.  Combine Ricotta Cheese and Romano Cheese.  Set Aside. 2. Bring a
  Large Stockpot Of Water To a Rolling Boil.  add 1 t. Salt,
  Cauliflower & Broccoli.  Cover & Return To a Boil.  Uncover & Cook on
  Medium-High until Crisp-Tender, About 7 Minutes.  Remove Vegetables
  With a Slotted Spoon and Reserve Liquid for Cooking Linguine. 3. Heat
  Olive Oil & Garlic in a Skillet.  When Garlic Is Lightly Browned,
  Stir in Mushrooms, Salt & Dried Red Pepper.  Saute About 6- 8
  Minutes. Stir in Broccoli & Cauliflower & Continue Cooking 10
  Minutes. If It Becomes Too Dry, add Some Of the Reserved Liquid. 4.
  Bring Remaining Reserved Liquid To a Rapid Boil, Adding Water If
  Needed, and add Linguine, Stirring With a Fork To Prevent Sticking.
  Cook About 10-12 Minutes.  Drain.
    Reheat Vegetable Mixture.  Stir in Linguine.  Top With Cheese
  Mixture. Dust With More Grated Romano and Serve Immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Primavera No. 2
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive Oil
      1    Onion Finely Chopped
    1/2 lb Carrots Diced
    1/2 lb Zucchini, Sliced
    1/2 lb Peas or Snow Peas
    3/4 lb Vermicelli
      2 tb Chopped Mint
           Freshly Ground Black Pepper
 
    1.  Cover and Saute the Onion Without Browning for 5 Minutes.
    2.  add the Carrots and Cook for 10 Minutes.  Then Put in the
  Zucchini for Another 5 Minutes.  add the Peas or Snow Peas and Cook
  for 2-3 Minutes.
    3.  Just Before the Vegetables Are Ready Cook the Vermicellis in a
  Large Saucepan until AL Dente.  Drain Immediately and Return To Pan.
    4.  add the Vegetables To the Vermicelli, Together With the Mint and
  Pepper.  Mix and Then Serve Garnished With Mint.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Fresh Vegetables
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Bunch Fresh Broccoli,
           Broken Into Flowerets
      4    Carrots Cut Into Small
           Pieces
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      2 md Onions Diced
      1 pt Fresh Mushrooms, Sliced
      3 md Zucchini, Sliced
      2 lb Linguini
      2 cl Minced Garlic
           Pepper
           Minced Parsly To Taste
           Olive Oil and Oleo for
           Tossing
      1 lb Linguine
 
   1.  in a Large Pot, Bring Approximately 6 Cups Of Water To a Boil.
  Blanch the Carrots and Broccoli for 2 To 3 Minutes.  Drain and Save
  the Water.
   2.  Heat Oil in a Large Skillet and Quickly Saute the Onions,
  Mushrooms and Zucchini.
   3. in a Large Pot, With the Water from the Vegetables, Cook the
  Linguini for About 7 To 8 Minutes until AL Dente (Firm).
   4.  Meanwhile, Coat a Large Skillet With Olive Oil and Heat. add
  minced Garlic (Use More Oil If Needed).  Combine All the Vegetables
  and Saute until Very Hot.
   5.  Gently Mix the Vegetables and Season With Pepper and Minced
  Garlic.
    6.  Drain the Linguini and Toss in Olive Oil and Oleo.
    7.  Mix the Linguini With the Vegetables and Serve Immediately
  While Hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Gnocci
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh Spinach Cooked
           & Drained & Chopped OR
      1 lb Frozen Chopped Spinach
           Thawed
    1/2 lb Mozzarella Grated
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
      2    Eggs Beaten
           Black Pepper
           Freshly Grated Nutmeg
           Extra Flour for Coating
           A Little Butter
 
    1.  Drain Spinach & Then Puree in a Processor.  Put the Puree Into a
  Saucepan & Dry It Over the Heat for a Minute.  Remove from the Heat.
    2.  in a Bowl, Mix Together the Mozzarella, Flour, Parmesan, Eggs &
  Spinach.  Season With Pepper & Nutmeg.  If the Mixture Is Very Soft,
  Put It Into the Refrigerator To Firm Up for About 30 Min.
    3.  Roll Heaped Teaspoons Of the Mixture in a Little Flour. this
  Can Be Done Ahead Of Time.
    4.  To Cook the Gnocchi, First Heat the oven To Low To Keep the
  Gnocchi Warm AS They'Re Ready.  Half-Fill a Large Saucepan With
  Lightly Salted Water & Bring Just To a Boil.
    5.  Drop 6-8 Gnocchi Into the Water & Let Them Simmer Very Gently
  for About 5-10 Min, until They Float To the Surface.
    6.  Make Sure the Water Does Not Get Beyond a Bare Simmer, & Remove
  the Gnocchi as Soon as They Are Ready or They May Fall Apart.
    7.  Drain the Gnocchi Well, Then Put Them Into a Warmed Serving
  Dish, Dot With a Little Butter & Keep Them Warm While You Cook
  Another Batch.
    8.  When All the Gnocchi Are Done, Sprinkle With Grated Parmesan
  Cheese and Serve Immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu & Rice with Vegetables
 Categories: Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Onion Sliced
    1/2    Green Pepper Thinly Sliced
    1/2 lb Mushrooms Sliced
    1/2 lb Spinach Torn Into Bite-
           Sized Pieces
      1 c  Mung Bean Sprouts
      1    Block Firm Tofu, Cut Into
           Cubes
    1/4 c  Sesame Seeds
      2 tb Low Sodium Tamari
      4 c  Cooked Brown Rice
 
   1.  Saute Onion and Green Pepper in 1/4 C. Water for 10 Min.
   2.  add Tofu and Mushrooms.  Cook An Additional 10 Min.
   3.  add Spinach, Bean Sprouts, Sesame Seeds and Tamari.  Cover and
  Steam 5 Min. To Wilt Spinach.
   4.  Mix in 4 C. Cooked Brown Rice.  Heat Through and Serve Hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Kidney Bean Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Olive Oil
      1 lg Onion Sliced
      1 lg Red Pepper Chopped
      2    Carrots Diced
      2 md Zucchini Sliced
      2    Celery Stalks Sliced
      2 c  Sliced Mushrooms
      4    Tomatoes Peeled &
           Quartered
    1/3 c  Dried Beans or One
      1 cn (15-Oz) Rinsed & Drained
    1/2 ts Paprika
           Black Pepper,
           Little Cumin
 
   1.  Heat the Oil in a Large Saucepan and add the Onion, Red Pepper,
  Carrots, Zucchini and Celery.  Cook Gently for 10 Min. Covered. add
  the Mushrooms, Tomatoes, Kidney Beans, Paprika and Pepper To Taste.
   2.  Continue To Coook, Covered for a Further 10-15 Min.  Check the
  Seasoning and Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Pea Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Eggplant
      2 lg Onions Chopped
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      2    Garlic Cloves Crushed
      1 cn (15 Oz) Tomatoes
    1/2 c  Dried Chick Peas
           OR
      1 cn (15 Oz) chick peas Drained
           Black Pepper
 
    1.  Cut Eggplant Into 1/2 Inch Dice, Sprinkle With Salt, Place in a
  Colander, Put a Weight on Top and Leave for 30 Minutes.
    2.  Rinse Eggplant and Gently Squeeze Out as Much Liquid as You Can.
    3.  Preheat the oven To 400 F.
    4.  Saute the Onion in Half the Oil in a Large Saucepan for 10
  Minutes. Remove With a Slotted Spoon and Saute the Eggplant Pieces in
  the Remaining Oil until Crisp and Lightly Browned.  Drain on Paper
  Towels.
    5.  Put the Eggplant and Onion Into An Ovenproof Dish, Then add the
  Garlic, Tomatoes, Chick Peas and Pepper.  Mix Well.  Cover and bake
  for 40-60 Min.  Garnish With Fresh Mint Leaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Couscous with Spicy Chick Pea Stew
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      3 c  Couscous
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      2    Onions Chopped
      3 md Carrots Sliced
      2 ts Each Ground Cinnamon,
           Ground Cumin,
           Ground Coriander
    1/2 c  Corn Kernels
    1/2 lb Zucchini Diced
  1 1/3 c  Dried Chick Peas Cooked
           OR
      2 cn (14-Oz) chick peas, drained
      1 qt Water
    1/4 c  Tomato Paste
  2 1/2 c  Warm Water
           Freshly Ground Black Pepper
 
   1.  Spread Couscous Out on a Large Deep Plate and Pour the Warm Water
  Evenly Over It.  Then Rub the Couscous Lightly With Your Fingers To
  Separate the Grains.  Set the Plate Aside. 2. Heat Half the Oil in a
  Large Saucepan, add the Onion and Carrots and Saute Gently for 10
  Minutes. Stir in the Spices and Cook for a Further 2-3 Minutes,
  Stirring. 3. Stir in the Corn, Zucchini and Chick Peas (May Use Fava
  Beansinstead). Then add the Water and Tomato Paste.  Bring To a
  Boiil, Then Turn the Heat Down So That the Chick Pea Stew Simmers. 4.
  By Now, the Couscous Will Have Absorbed the Water.  Put It Into a
  Metal Sieve, Metal Colander or Steamer Saucepan, Breaking It Up a Bit
  With Your Fingers Again as You Do So. If Your Container Has Large
  Holes, You May Prefer To Line It With a Piece Of Cheesecloth To
  Prevent the Grains from Falling Through, But I Never Found this
  Necessary. 5. Put the Steamer, Colander or Sieve Over the Vegetable
  Stew, Cover With a Lid or Plate and Cook Gently for 25-30 Minuites.
  6. Season To Taste With Pepper.  Stir the Remaining Olive Oil Into
  the Couscous, Then Put the Couscous on a Large, Warmed Serving Dish,
  Garnish With the Coriander and Serve Immediately.Serve With a Green
  Salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Felafel in Pita Pockets
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Dried Chick Peas Cooked OR
      2 cn (15-Oz) chick peas, drained
      1    Egg Beaten
      1 lg Onion Finely Chopped
      2 tb Chopped Parsley
      1    Garlic Clove, Crushed
      1 ts Ground Coriander
      1 ts Ground Cumin
           A Pinch Of Chili Powder
           Black Pepper
           Unbleached White Flour for
           Coating
           Oil for Shallow Frying
 
     1.  Mash the Chick Peas Thoroughly, Then add the Egg, Onion,
  Parsley, Garlic & Spices.  Mix Well, Season To Taste With Pepper.
     2.  Shape the Mmixture Into Balls About the Size Of Chestnuts,
  Then Coat in Flour.
     3.  Put Pita Bread To Warm Under the Broiler or Moderate oven.
     4.  Pour Enough Oil in the Frying Pan To Cover the Base Thinly and
  When It Is Hot, Saute the Felafel in Batches for 3 Min. on Each Side
  until Golden Brown.  Drain Well on Paper Towels.
     5.  Cut Each Pita Bread in Half Across the Center, Then Fill Each
  With Felafel, Sliced Tomato and Cucumber and Garnish Wiith Lemon and
  Fennel.
    (in Place Of Egg, May Use 2 T. Chick Pea Flour.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brown Lentil Bake with Pineapple
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive Oil
      2 lg Onions Finely Chopped
      1 c  Dried Lentils Cooked &
           Drained
      2 tb Chopped Parsley
      1 ts Herbes DE Provence
      2 tb Soy Sauce
           Pepper
    1/3 c  Whole-Wheat Bread Crumbs
      1 cn (8-Oz) Pineapple Chunks
           Or Rings
 
   1.  Preheat the oven To 350 F.
   2.  Heat the Oil in a Large Sauce Pan and Saute the Onion for 10 Min.
  until Soft and Lightly Browned, Stirring Occasionally.
   3.  add the Garlic, Lentils, Parsley, Mixed With Herbs and Soy
  Sauce. Mash By Hand or Puree Roughly in a Processor until the Mixture
  Holds Together. Season With Pepper.
   4.  Transfer To a Shallow Baking Dish.  Sprinkle With the Crumbs.
   5.  bake for 20 Min.  Then Remove from the oven.  Carefully Place the
  Pineapple, Either Rings or Chunks, on Top and bake for  a Further
  10-15 Min. until the Pineapple Is Hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Lentil Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Onions Finely Chopped
      2    Carrots Finely Chopped
      1    Celery Stalk Finely Chopped
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1 lg Garlic Clove Crushed
      1 c  Dried Green or Brown
           Lentils Cooked & Well
           Drained
    1/2 ts Ground Cumin
    1/2 ts Ground Coriander
      6 ts Chopped Parsley
      1 tb Lemon Juice
           Black Pepper,
           White Flour
 
   1.  Saute the Onion, Carrot and Celery in Oil in a Large Saucepan
  for 10 Min. until Soft and Lightly Browned, Stirring from Time To
  Time. 2. add the Garlic, Lentils, Cumin, Coriander, Parsley and Lemon
  Juice. Mash By Hand or Puree in a Processor until the Mixture Holds
  Together. Season With Pepper. 3.  With Floured Hands, Shape the
  Mixture in 10-12 Flat Burgers, Using a Palette Knife.  Coat the
  Burgers With Flour. 4. Saute the Burgers in a Little Oil until Crisp
  and Browned, Turning Them Over Carefully To Cook the Second Side. 5.
  Drain on Paper Towels and Serve Garnished With Watercress and
  Tomatoes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crepes with Cottage Cheese
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 lb Sliced Button Mushrooms
      1 lb Cottage Cheese
           Black Pepper

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
      1 c  White Flour
      2    Eggs
      1 tb Olive Oil or Melted Oleo
    1/2 c  (Generous) Milk
    1/2    C (Generous) Water
 
    1.  Saute Mushrooms in 2 T. Oleo for 2-3 Min. Just until Tender.
  Mix With the Cottage Cheese and Season To Taste.
    2.  Put All Batter Ingredients in a Food Processor and Whizz until
  Smooth.
    3. Preheat the oven To 350.
    4.  Use the Crepe Batter To Make About 12 Thin Crepes.
    5.  Put a Little Of the Mushrooms Mixture in the Middle Of Each
  Crepe, Dividing It Evenly Among Them.  Roll the Crepes Up and Place
  Them Side By Side in a Shallow Casserole.  Pour Some Yogurt
  That'Sbeen Whipped Over Them.  Cover Tightly With Foil and bake for
  20-30 Min. until Heated Through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Armenian Stew
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dried Apricots Soaked in
    1/2 c  Water for 1 Hour.
    1/2 c  Dried Garbanzo Beans Soaked
           Overnight in Water
      5 c  Water
      1 c  Lentils
      3    Onions Sliced
      2 tb Malt Syrup or Molasses
 
    1.  in a Large Pan, Bring Soaked Apricots and Their Water To a
  Boil. add Soaked, Drained Garbanzo Beans and 1 C. Water.  Bring To a
  Boil and Cook for 30 Minutes.
    2.  add the Lentils, Onions and 4 C. Water To Pot.  Bring To a Boil.
  Lower Heat, Cover and Cook Ubout 2 Hours until Garbanzos Are Tneder.
  add 2 t. Malt Syrup.  Mix in Well.  Serve Over Brown Rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garbanzo Stew
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Dried Garbanzo Beans
     10 c  Water
      2    Potatoes Chunked
      2    Carrots Thickly Sliced
      2    Stalks Celery Thickly
           Sliced
      2    Onions Chopped
      2 tb Low Sodium Tamari (Opt.)
 
    1. Place the Garbanzos and Water in a Large Pot.  Bring To a Boil,
  Reduce Heat To Medium Low, Cover and Cook At Least 2 Hours.
    2.  add Remaining Ingredients and Cook until Tender, Usually 1 Hour
  More, Depending on How Soft You Like Your Vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Black Beans
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Black Beans
      6 c  Water
      2    Onions Sliced
      1    Green Pepper Sliced
      1 cl Garlic Crushed
      1    Bay Leaf
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Marjoram
      2 ts Arrowroot or Cornstarch
 
    1.  Place Beans and Water in a Large Pot.  Bring To a Boil. Reduce
  Heat, Cover and Cook Over Low Heat for 1 Hour.  add Remaining
  Ingredients Except the Arrowroot.  Cover and Continue Cooking for 1&
  1/2 Hours Longer.
    2.  To Thicken the Bean Mixture Before Serving, Mix the Cornstarch
  With 1/4 C. Cold Water.  Remove Beans from Heat, Slowly add the
  Cornstarch Mixture While Stirring.   Return To Heat and Stir until
  Thickened. Serve Over Born Rice.Good With Chopped Onions Sprinkled
  Over the Top Of Beans and Rice.  Also Try Some Green Chili Salsa
  Spooned Over the Top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Kebabs with Rosemary
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 sm Button Mushrooms
    1/2 lb Firm Tofu Cut Into
           1/2 Inch Cubes
      1 sm Red Pepper Cut Into
           Strips About 1 Inch Long
           And 1/2 Inch Wide
     12    Minature Corn
      3 sm Zucchini, Total Weight
           About 3/4 Lb. Cut Into
           Slices 1/2 Inch Thick
     12    Cherry Tomatoes
      6    Kebab Skewers

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 ts Mustard Powdder
      1    Garlic Clove Crushed
      2 tb Clear Honey
      2 tb Soy Sauce
      2 tb Olive Oil
           Ground Black Pepper
 
  1.  Thread the Vegetables and Tofu Onto Skewers, Putting a Mushroom,
  Then a Piece Of Tofu, Followed By Some Red Pepper, Corn, Zucchini and
  a Cherry Tomato. 2. Continue in this Way until All Skewers Are Full.
  3. To Make the Marinade, Mix Together the Mustard, Garlic and Honey,
  Then Gradually Stir in the Other Ingredients. 4. Lay the Kebabs on a
  Plastic or Glass Container Big Enough for Them To Lie Flat. 5. Spoon
  the Marinade Over Them, Turning Them To Make Sure That All the
  Vegetables Are Coated. 6. Let the Kebabs Marinate for At Least One
  Hour, Preferably for Serveral Hours, Spooning the Marinade Over Them
  Occasionally.
   7.  Cook the Kebabs Under a Hot Broiler or on the Grills for 10- 15
  Minutes until All the Vegetables Are Tender, Turning the Skewers So
  That the Vegetables Cook Evenly.
   8.  Pour the Remaining Marinade Into a Small Pitcher and Serve
  Separately. (May Use Eggplant Cubes or Cauliflower Florets If
  Desired.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic White Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 100 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
      1 c  Milk
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
 
  "These basic crispy crackers go well with soups, salads, dips,
  appetizers, and cheese. They will remind you of childhood rainy days
  and tomato soup. Preheat the oven to 325~ F. 325~ F 20 to 25 minutes
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flour and salt.
  Cut the butter into the flour until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  
  Slowly mix in enough of the milk to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball. If necessary, add up to 1 additional
  Tablespoon of milk.
  
  Divide the dough into 3 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll the crackers paper thin. They will look
  almost translucent. If desired, lightly sprinkle the tops with salt
  and gently roll over the dough with your rolling pin.
  
  With a sharp knife, carefully cut the crackers into 2-inch squares.
  Handling them gently, transfer them to an ungreased baking sheet.
  Prick each cracker in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until lightly browned. Cool on a rack.
  Yield: 95-100.
  
  VARIATIONS: This basic recipe can be the starting point for much
  interesting experimentation. Simply varying flour or liquid can
  produce an entirely new cracker unavailable anywhere but in your
  kitchen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wheat Thins
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 100 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    2/3 c  Milk
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
 
  Preheat the oven to 325~ F. "Just the thing to nibble with a cup of
  mulled wine or hot spiced apple cider, these simple, versatile
  crackers also lend themselves beautifully to cheeses, dips, and spicy
  spreads.
  
  325~ F      20 to 25 minutes In a large bowl or in the food processor,
  combine the flours, sugar, and salt. Cut the butter into the flour
  until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  
  Blend in the milk slowly, using only enough to form a dough that will
  hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll the crackers thin, 1/16 to 1/8 inch. If
  desired, lightly sprinkle the tops with salt and gently roll over the
  dough with your rolling pin.
  
  With a sharp knife, cut the crackers into 2-inch squares. Transfer
  them to an ungreased baking sheet. Prick each cracker in 2 or 3
  places with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the crackers are lightly browned.
  Cool on a rack. Yield: 95-100.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Soda Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 80 servings
 
      4 c  All-purpose flour
      4 ts Salt
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/4 c  Plus 2 Tablespoons
           Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Water
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
 
  "These crackers cannot truly duplicate the lightness of traditional
  soda crackers, but they take a fraction of the time to make, and they
  are delicious in their own right. Plain, slightly biscuity crackers,
  they go well with soups or stews.
  
  350~ F      25 to 30 minutes
  
  Preheat the oven to 350~ F.
  
  In the food processor or a large bowl, combine the flour, salt, and
  baking powder. Cut the shortening into the flour until the mixture
  resembles coarse meal. Add the water, little by little, and blend to
  form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divid the dough into 3 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to a rectangle approximately 1/4
  inch thick and position so the long edge runs horizontally in front
  of you. Fold the left third of the dough over the center third.
  Likewise, fold the right third over the center. The dough is now in 3
  layers with the seam running vertically. Give the dough a quarter
  turn so the seam now runs horizontally. Roll out again to a rectangle
  about 1/4 inch thick. Fold and turn the dough again as in the first
  step. You are now ready for the final rolling.
  
  Roll the dough out somewhat thinner this time, about 1/8 inch thick.
  If desired, sprinkle the top lightly and evenly with salt and roll
  over it lightly with the rolling pin. With a sharp knife, cut into
  2-inch squares and place them on an ungreased baking sheet. Prick
  each square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until lightly browned. Cool on a rack.
  Yield: 80-85.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Traditional Soda Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 100 servings
 
  1 1/2 ts Dry active yeast (1 package
           Contains 2-1/4 teaspoons)
    1/2 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Warm water
  4 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 tb Water for disolving the
           Baking soda
      2 tb Plus 2 ts buttermilk
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Shortening
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
 
  "The incomparable lightness of traditional soda crackers results from
  the unusual techniques used in making them. Making soda crackers is
  easy, but it takes a relatively long time. The initial rise is 20 to
  30 hours, which allows the dough to increase in volume without
  developing a pronounced yeast flavor. Since the dough will ferment to
  some extent during this time, alkaline soda is then added to
  neutralize the acids produced by that fermentation. The dough is then
  allowed to rest 3 to 4 hours to relax the gluten so the crakers will
  not be tough and chewy. Next, the dough is rolled in layers. It is
  definitely worth the extra planning it takes to make these crakers.
  If you take a few minutes to get started on a Friday morning, the
  dough can have its long rest until the next day. Then you can finish
  the mixing and let the dough rest again while you run your weekend
  errands, baking the crackers in time for Saturday dinner.
  
  450~ F      9 to 11 minutes
  
  In a small bowl, combine the yeast with the sugar and warm water. Set
  aside until the yeast is fully dissolved, 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  Measure 3-1/2 cups of the flour into a large bowl. Stir in the yeast
  mixture and mix well. Place plastic wrap over the bowl and let the
  dough rest in a warm place for 20 to 30 hours. The plastic wrap keeps
  the dough from drying out during this long period.
  
  In a small bowl, dissolve the baking soda in the Tablespoon water.
  Place the baking soda mixture, buttermilk, salt, and shortening in
  the bowl with the dough and mix well. Mix in as much of the remaining
  1/2 to 1 cup flour as necessary to form a stiff, nonsticky dough.
  Knead for a minute or two and then let the dough rest, covered with
  the plastic wrap, for 15 minutes.
  
  On a lightly floured surface, knead the dough for another few minutes,
  until it is smooth and springy to the touch. Place it in a large,
  clean, lightly oiled bowl and let it rest for another 3 or 4 hours,
  covered with plastic wrap.
  
  At last you are ready to roll. Preheat the oven to 450~ F. Punch the
  dough down and knead a few strokes. Divide the dough into 3 equal
  portions for rolling. Rolling may be difficult at first due to the
  elasticity of the dough. Give yourself a head start on the rolling by
  flattening the dough with your hands. Place your rolling pin in the
  center of the dough and begin. Soon the dough will relax and begin to
  roll easily.
  
  On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll out to a rectangle
  approximately 1/4 inch thick and position so the long edge runs
  horizontally in front of you. Fold the left third of the dough over
  the center third. Likewise, fold the right third over the center. The
  dough is now in 3 layers with the seam running vertically. Give the
  dough a quarter turn so the seam now runs horizontally. Roll out
  again to a rectangle about 1/4 inch thick. Fold and turn the dough
  again as in the first step. You are now ready for the final rolling.
  
  Roll the dough out thinner this time, about 1/16 to 1/8 inch thick. If
  desired, sprinkle the top lightly and evenly with salt and roll over
  it lightly with the rolling pin. With a sharp knife, cut into 2-inch
  squares and place each one on an ungreased baking sheet. Prick each
  square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 8 minutes. Turn and bake an additional 1 to 3 minutes, or
  until lightly browned. Cool on a rack. Yield: 95-100.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oatmeal Butter Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 60 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Rolled oats (oatmeal)
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar
      6 tb (3/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, melted and
           Cooled
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  Preheat the oven to 325~ F. "Crunchy and nutty, these crackers make a
  nutritious snack. Put your feet up after a hard day's work and enjoy
  a few with a glass of fresh lemonade.
  
  325~ F      20 to 25 minutes
  
  Stir together the flour, oats, salt, and sugar in a large bowl or in
  the food processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Blend in enough of the milk to form a dough that will
  hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divid the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll as thin as possible, to about 1/16 inch
  thick. Using a spatula, rolling pin, or your hands, transfer the
  rolled dough gently onto a large baking sheet.
  
  With a sharp knife, score the dough into 2-inch squares without
  cutting all the way throug the dough. Prick each square 2 or 3 times
  with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, turning over after 15 minutes, until
  crisp. Cool on a rack. Break into individual crackers when cool.
  Yield: 50-60.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Whole-Wheat Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Half-and-half or cream
 
  Preheat the oven to 325~ F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flour, sugar,
  and salt. Slowly add the half-and-half or cream and blend to form a
  dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, at most 1/8 inch. The thinner
  these crackers are, the better. Cut out individual 2-inch crackers
  with a cookie cutter, juice can, or sharp knife and arrange on a
  lightly greased or parchement-lined baking sheet.
  
  With the tines of a fork, prick each cracker 2 or 3 times. Bake for
  20 to 25 minutes, or until lightly browned, turning over once during
  baking.
  
  Cool the crackers on a rack until crisp. Yield: 45-50.
  
  VARIATIONS: To vary the texture, substitute 1/2 cup rolled oats, rye,
  barley, or wheat for an equal amount of flour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Snacks
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 90 servings
 
      5 tb Sesame seeds, toasted
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Egg, lightly beaten and
           Diluted with 1 to 2 Tb milk
           For brushing the tops
 
  "The flavor of sesame comes through very nicely in these crispy
  crackers. Try them wih your favorite chutney or with cream cheese and
  jam. If you are feeling extravagant, spread them with sour cream and
  caviar.
  
  325~ F      20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~ F.
  
  In a food mill or blender, grind the sesame seeds until coarsely
  broken. A food processor will not effectively grind this small
  quantity. If preferred, you can leave the seeds whole.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, stir together the flour,
  seeds, and salt. Add the oil and blend until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal.
  
  Blend in enough of the water, a little at a time, to form a dough
  that will hold together in a cohesive ball. If necessary, add up to 1
  additional Tablespoon of water.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll to 1/16 inch thick. With a sharp knife
  or cookie cutter, cut in desired shapes approximately 2 inches
  across. Arrange on an ungreased baking sheet. Prick each cracker in 2
  or 3 places with the tines of a fork. Brush the tops lightly with the
  egg mixture.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the crackers are light to medium
  brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 85-90.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oat Bran Squares
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 55 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Oat bran
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      4 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
      1 ts Honey
    1/4 c  Hot water
 
  "Oat bran is a good source of fiber. These crackers are not only
  healthy, they also taste good. They are worthy of a large glass of
  freshly-squeezed orange juice.
  
  325~ F      18 to 22 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~ F.
  
  Combine the oat bran, flour, salt, and baking soda in a large bowl or
  in the food processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal.
  
  Dissolve the honey in the hot water and blend it into the flour
  mixture. If the dough is too wet for rolling, quickly add a little
  more flour.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll to about 1/8 inch. With a sharp knife,
  cut the dough into 2-inch squares. Place them on a lightly greased or
  parchment-lined baking sheet. Prick each square in 2 or 3 places with
  the tines of a fork. Bake for 18 to 22 minutes, or until medium
  brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 50-55.
  
  VARIATIONS: Substitute wheat bran for oat bran. For a more delicate
  cracker, roll the dough thinner and reduce the baking time to
  compensate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Rice Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 95 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Cream of rice, regular or
           Quick cooking
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    2/3 c  Milk
 
  "If you have a food mill, make your own cream of rice by grinding
  whole rice to a medium coarsness. The difference in taste between
  this and the commercial cereals is as marked as that between ordinary
  and freshly ground coffee.
  
  325~ F      20 to 25 minutes
  
  Preheat the oven to 325~ F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the cream of rice,
  flour, sugar, and salt. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Slowly blend in enough of the milk to form a dough that
  will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 inch thick. With a sharp
  knife, cut the dough into 2-inch shapes.
  
  Place the crackers on an ungreased baking sheet and prick each one
  all the way through in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a fork. Bake
  for 20 to 25 minutes, or until light golden brown. Cool on a rack.
  Yield: 85-95.
  
  VARIATIONS: Substituting half-and-half or cream for the milk will
  result in a richer cracker.
  
  For a different taste, substitute cream of wheat or cream of rye
  cereals for the cream of rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yogurt Thins
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 85 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Plain, unsweetened yogurt
 
  "The flavor of these crispy snacks varies subtly with the type of
  yogurt used. A bit of sweet jam or honey complements these somewhat
  tangy crackers. They are also excellent with almost any dip.
  
  325~ F      15 to 20 minutes
  
  Preheat the oven to 325~ F.
  
  In the food processor or in a large bowl, combine the flour and salt.
  Add the oil and mix until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Add the
  yogurt and blend to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. If necessary, add an addional Tablespoon of yogurt.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll in a rectangular shape 1/8 inch thick.
  Using a spatulay, rolling pin, or your hands, pick up the rolled
  dough and transfer it to a large baking sheet.
  
  With a sharp knife, score the surface into 2-inch squares, taking
  care not to cut all the way through the dough. Prick each square in 2
  or 3 places with the tines of a fork.
  
  Baike for 15 to 20 minutes, or until light brown. Turn over once
  during baking and pull off any individual crackers at the edges that
  are already brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 80-85.
  
  VARIATIONS: A sweeter cracker will result by substituting sweetened
  yogurt for the plain yogurt. Lemon and berry flavors are good. If you
  use fruit-at-the-bottom yogurt, be sure to stir it first. Note that
  the color can be affected by the type of yogurt used.
  
  Substituting 1/3 cup toasted wheat germ for the same amount of flour
  lends this cracker a nutty flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thin Rice Cakes
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 c  Rice (white or brown)
      6 c  Water
      2 ts Salt, to taste
           Parchment paper or wax
           Paper
 
  Combine the rice, water, and salt in a large saucepan, cover, and
  bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to simmer. Cook for 45 to 60
  minutes, until all the water is absorbed and the rice is quite soft.
  
  "Cooked whole grain rice and salt are the only ingredients in these
  crispy thins. It may take you a couple of tries to perfect the
  rolling technique. They key to success is to cook the rice in more
  water and for much longer than you would ordinarily. It should be
  very soft and mushy. Eat these rice cakes with fruit and cheese, or
  crack them into soups. 325~ F 45 to 55 minutes Preheat the oven to
  325~ F.
  
  Taste the rice and add salt to taste. Stir the rice well with a fork
  until mushy. Cut six sheets of parchement paper or wax paper the size
  of your largest baking sheet. (Parchment paper works best.) While the
  rice is still warm, measure out a third of it, about one cup, into
  the center of a sheet of the paper. Using your hands, shape the rice
  into a flat disk.
  
  Place a second sheet of paper over the rice and roll out to about
  3/16 inch thick. Keep the thickness as uniform as possible
  throughout. Carefully peel off the top sheet of paper.
  
  If you are using parchment paper, simply place the rolled rice, bottom
  sheet of paper and all, on an ungreased baking sheet.
  
  If you are using wax paper, you will need to grease your baking sheet
  lightly. Then pick up the wax paper and rolled rice and flip it, rice
  side down, onto the sheet. Then carefully peel the wax paper off the
  top. The wax paper may stick to the rice, but don't worry if holes
  form in spots. You are going to crack these crisps up anyway when
  they cool. Use a metal spatula to loosen the wax paper if necessary.
  
  Bake for 45 to 55 minutes, or until crisp. Begin rolling the next 2
  crisps while the first is baking. If the edges get done before the
  centers, gently break them off and allow the rest to continue baking.
  
  Cool the large crisps on racks and break into irregularly shaped
  individual crackers. Yield: 3 large rice cakes.
  
  VARIATIONS: Add 2 to 3 Tablespoons toasted sesame seeds, or your
  favorite herbs, to the rice after cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Cheese Chips
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 130 servings
 
    1/2 lb (8 ounces) blue cheese,
           Broken into small pieces
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
      2 c  All-purpose or rice flour
    1/4 c  Buckwheat groats or chopped
           Toasted nuts of your choice
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Milk
 
  "These "blue chips" are definitely a good investment that produce
  profitable returns in the form of compliments from all who try them.
  The texture is light and lacy, and the blue cheese flavor mellows
  with baking. Try serving them with a dry white wine. 305~F. 20 to 25
  minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F. Cream the butter and cheese
  together in the food processor, or in a large bowl using a pastry
  blender or two kinves. In another bowl, stir together the flour,
  buckwheat groats or nuts (if desired) and pepper. Add the flour
  mixture to the butter-cheese mixture and blend well.
  
  Blend in the milk, little by little, to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball. The dough should be quite stiff. Divide
  it into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured surface or pastry
  cloth, roll out to about 3/16 inch thick. Cut into 1-1/2-inch circles
  and place on an ungreased baking sheet, making sure the edges do not
  touch. Prick each cracker in 1 or 2 places with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 15 minutes, turn, and bake for an additional 5 to 10
  minutes, or until medium brown. Yield: 130-40.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parmesan Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
      2 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  (about 8 ounces) finely
           Grated Parmesan cheese
      1    Egg yolk
    1/2 c  Water
 
  "Parmesan Crackers are great with a cold beer or soda. Once you have
  started eating them, it is nearly impossible to stop. 350~F. 15 to 20
  minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, cut the butter into the
  flour until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Add the cheese and egg
  yolk and mix well.
  
  Add enough of the water to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. The texture will be somewhat crumbly, but the dough
  will hold together when pressed.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll each into a rectangle about 1/4 inch
  thick. Cut out individual crackers about 2 inches across with a
  cookie cuttter or sharp knife and arrange them on an ungreased baking
  sheet.
  
  Prick each cracker 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork. Bake for 10
  minutes. Turn the crackers over and bake another 5 to 10 minutes, or
  until medium brown.
  
  Cool the crackers on a rack. Yield: 40-50.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jack & Dill Squares
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Dried dill weed, OR
      1 tb Fresh, dill weed
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/4 lb (4 ounces) Jack cheese,
           Shredded (1 to 1-1/2 cups,
           Loosely packed)
    1/3 c  Water
 
  "Monterey Jack cheese and dill go surprisingly well together. These
  are unusual crackers with a smooth texture. They are tasty hors
  d'oeurves all by themselves. 325~F. 15 to 20 minutes Preheat the oven
  to 325~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flour, dill,
  salt, and pepper. Add the oil and mix until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Add the cheese and mix thoroughly so the cheese is
  coated evenly.
  
  Slowly blend in enough of the water to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball. Divide the dough into 2 equal portions
  for rolling. On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll each out to
  1/8-inch.
  
  With a sharp knife, cut the rolled dough into 2-inch squares. Place
  them on an ungreased baking sheet, making sure their edges do not
  touch. Bake for 15 minutes. Turn them over and continue baking
  another 5 to 10 minutes, or until they are medium brown. Cool on a
  rack. Yield: 50-60.
  
  VARIATIONS: Experiment with different kinds of cheeses, seeds, and
  herbs. Cheddar and thyme are a good combination.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fondue Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 80 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 lb (8 ounces) Swiss cheese,
           Shredded (2 to 2-1/2 cups,
           Loosely packed)
    1/4 c  Water
 
  "If you want the flavor of cheese fondue, but don't want the fuss and
  commotion, try these crackers. You may never bother with the real
  thing again. These cheese crackers are very rich, but very light.
  They are excellent with a light Alsatian Gewurztraminer or Grey
  Riesling. 325~F. 25 to 30 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, mix the flour, salt,
  pepper, and nutmeg. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Add the cheese and blend until it is evenly coatd. Blend
  in the water to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive
  ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface of pastry cloth, roll out to about 3/8 inch thick. Cut into
  bite-sized squares (about 1 inch by 1 inch). Arrange on an ungreased
  sheet, making sure the edges of the crackers are not touching.
  
  Bake for 15 minutes. Turn the crackers over and continue baking
  another 10 to 15 minutes, until medium brown. These crackers should
  be crisp. Cool them on racks. Yield: 70-80.
  
  VARIATIONS: For a more traditional fondue taste, add 1 teaspoon
  Kirsch or cherry liqueur when adding the water. And use two different
  types of Swiss cheese, such as Gruyere and Emmenthaler.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Pretzels
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 pk (2-1/4 teaspoons) active
           Dry yeast
      1 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Warm water
  3 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 lb (8 ounces) sharp cheddar
           Cheese, shredded (2 to
           2-1/2 cups, loosely packed)
      1    Egg, lightly beaten, for
           The tops
           Coarse salt for the tops
 
  "Pretzels can be made large and soft, or small and hard. The hard
  ones are more crackery. The soft ones are delicious with a ribbon of
  mustard on the top. Although this is a yeast dough, it is not allowed
  to rise, so these treats can be ready to eat in just a few minutes.
  425~F. 15 to 30 minutes, depending on size Preheat the oven to 425~F.
  
  In a small bowl, combine the yeast, sugar, and warm water. Set aside
  in a warm place until the yeast starts to foam, about 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flour, salt, and
  cheese. Mix until the cheese is evenly coated.
  
  Add the yeast mixture to the flour mixture and mix well to form a
  cohesive dough. Knead the dough until it is smooth, 1 to 2 minutes by
  hand or 20 to 30 pulses in the food processor.
  
  With a sharp knife, divide the dough into 16 pieces if you are making
  large pretzels, or 32 pieces for smaller ones. With your hands, roll
  each piece into a rope about 12 inches long. You will have a more
  even-looking rope if you place the dough on a firm surface and roll
  your hands across the top, moving from the center outward. When the
  rope is the thickness you like, twist it into a pretzel shape by
  forming a loop in the center, twisting the ends, and gently attaching
  them to the bottom of the loop.
  
  Place each pretzel on an ungreased baking sheet. Brush the tops with
  the egg and sprinkle lightly and evenly with coarse salt.
  
  Immediately place the pretzels in the oven until the tops are a rich
  brown. This will be about 25 to 30 minutes for the larger pretzels
  and 15 to 20 minutes for the smaller ones. Yield: 16 to 32 pretzels,
  depending on size.
  
  VARIATIONS: Try using different cheeses. For plain pretzels, omit the
  cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crunchy Peanut Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/3 c  Corn meal
      1 c  Shelled roasted, unsalted
           Peanuts
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Peanut butter, cruncy or
           Creamy
 
  "Chopped whole peanuts and lots of peanut butter provide rich, nutty
  flavor. Corn meal adds a little extra crunch. Kids will love Crunchy
  Peanut Crackers spread with grape jelly alongside a glass of cold
  milk for a healthy snack. 350~F. 15 to 20 minutes Preheat the oven to
  350~F.
  
  If you have a food processor, combine the flour, corn meal, peanuts,
  salt and sugar and pulse until the peanuts are finely chopped, about
  1 minute. Alternatively, chop the peanuts by hand and mix them
  together with the flour, cornmeal, salt, and sugar in a large bowl.
  
  In a separate bowl, whisk together the milk and peanut butter until
  smooth. Add the milk mixture to the flour mixture and blend to form a
  dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll each portion into a rectangle
  approximately 3/16 to 1/4 inch thick. This dough is very crumbly. If
  it cracks during rolling, simply press it back together with your
  fingers.
  
  With a sharp knife or cookie cutter, cut the dough into squares or
  desired shapes about 2 inches across and place them on an ungreased
  baking sheet. Prick each cracker in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a
  fork. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until the crackers are a deep golden
  brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 55-60.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pistachio Meltaways
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Shelled and chopped
           Pistachio nuts, toasted
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 lb (8 ounces) Monterey Jack
           Cheese, shredded (2 to
           2-1/2 cups, loosely packed)
    1/4 c  Half-and-half
 
  "Exceedingly rich, these crackers have a pronounced pistachio flavor.
  They are quite versatile and can be enjoyed with a cup of hot tea or
  a dish of ice cream. 325~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to
  325~F.
  
  Mix the flour, nuts, salt, and pepper together in a large bowl or in
  the food processor. Cut the butter into the flour mixture until it
  resembles coarse meal. Add the cheese and mix until the cheese is
  coated evenly.
  
  Slowly add enough of the half-and-half to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to about 1/4 inch thick. With a
  sharp knife, cut the dough into 2-inch squares and arrange them on an
  ungreased baking sheet. Make sure the edges are not touching.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes. Don't let these Meltaways get more than
  medium brown. Cool them on a rack. Yield: 50-60.
  
  VARIATIONS: If pistachios are not available, cashews or macadamias are
  excellent substitutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Double Cashew Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 35 servings
 
    1/2 ts Grated lemon zest (about
           1/4 lemon)
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 c  Roasted cashew butter
      1 c  Chopped, unsalted cashews,
           Raw or roasted
      2 tb Water
 
  "These buttery crackers have a shortbread-like texture. The use of
  both cashew butter and chopped cashews brings forth the rich and
  subtly sweet flavor of this nut to creat a truly elegant cracker.
  350~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  To prepare the lemon zest, lightly grate the skin of a firm lemon
  against the fine grate of a cheese grater. Use only the colored part
  of the rind; the underlying white portion is bitter.
  
  In the food processor or in a large bowl, combine the lemon zest,
  flour, salt, pepper, and sugar. Cut in the butter until the mixture
  is the consistency of coarse meal. Mix in the cashew butter, chopped
  cashews, and water, stirring until a smooth dough forms. Wrap the
  dough in wax paper and chill 1 hour.
  
  Once chilled, divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a
  floured surface or pastry cloth, roll out to approximately 1/4 inch
  thick. With a sharp knife, cut into 2-inch squares and transfer to an
  ungreased baking sheet. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until golden
  brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 30-35.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 60 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Potato flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Plus 2 teaspoons (1/3
           Stick) butter or margarine,
           Softened
    1/2 c  Finely chopped, toasted
           Walnuts
      1 c  Ice water
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
 
  "These crackers capture the essence of walnuts. Rich and meaty, but
  at the same time light and crisp, they are excellent with a blue
  cheese spread and a glass of port. 350~F. 25 to 30 minutes Preheat
  the oven to 350~F.
  
  Mix the flours and salt together in a large bowl or in the food
  processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  Add the walnuts and stir until they are evenly distributed
  throughout. Blend in enough of the water to form a dough that will
  hold together in a cohesive ball. The dough will be somewhat sticky.
  
  Wrap the dough in wax paper or lightly buttered aluminum foil and
  chill for at least 1/2 hour.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 inch thick. If desired,
  sprinkle the tops lightly with salt and roll over the dough with your
  rolling pin. With a cookie cutter, glass, or juice can, cut the dough
  into 2-inch rounds.
  
  Place them on a lightly greased or parchemnt-lined baking sheet.
  Prick each round in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a fork. Bake for
  25 to 30 minutes, or until lightly browned. Cool on a rack. Yield:
  55-60.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepperines
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 85 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Coarsely ground pepper
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  "If saltines don't excite you, try pepperines. They're good by
  themselves, and they spice up soups, stews, and dips. 350~F. 15 to 20
  minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  Mix the flour, salt, pepper, and sugar in a large bowl or in the food
  processor. Add the oil and blend until the mixture resembles coarse
  meal.
  
  Combine 1/4 cup of the water and the lemon juice in a small bowl.
  Blend it into the flour mixture. Add enough of the remaining 1/4 cup
  water to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll each in a rectangular shape. The dough
  should be as thin as possible, 1/16 inch at most.
  
  Using a spatula, rolling pin, or your hands, pick up the rolled dough
  and trasfer it onto an ungreased baking sheet. With a sharp knife,
  score into 2-inch squares. Do not cut all the way through to the
  baking sheet. Prick each cracker 2 or 3 times with a fork.
  
  Bake 15 to 20 minutes, turning over after 10 minutes or when the edges
  begin to brown. Cool on a rack. Break into individual crackers. Yield:
  75-85.
  
  VARIATIONS: If a hotter cracker is desired, add more pepper. For
  red-hot cracker, sprinkle 1/8 to 1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper on top
  of the dough before making a final pass ith your rolling pin.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Corn Chips
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 150 servings
 
      1 c  Cornmeal
      1 cl Garlic, pressed
  1 1/2 ts Cayenne
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine
      1 c  Boiling water
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
           Salt for the tops
           Paprika for the tops
 
  "The measurements below yield a flavorful, spicy fire cracker. For a
  milder or an extra hot cracker, adjust the amount of cayenne, cumin,
  and chili powder to taste. These are delightful with a salsa dip.
  375~F. 10 to 12 minutes Preheat the oven to 375~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, mix the cornmeal, garlic,
  cayenne, cumin, chili powder, and salt. Add the butter and boiling
  water and blend well.
  
  Allow the mixture to cool and rest for 10 minutes. It will thicken
  slightly.
  
  Slowly blend in the flour, using just enough to form a dough that
  will hold together in a cohesive ball. Divide the dough into 3 equal
  portions for rolling. On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll as
  thin as possible, to about 1/16 inch thick. Sprinkle lightly and
  evenly with salt and paprika roll over the top of the dough lightly
  with the rolling pin.
  
  Cut the dough into 2-inch triangles or squares. Arrange them on an
  ungreased baking sheet. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes. Cool on a rack.
  
  These crackers will crispen as they cool. If they are not crisp enough
  after cooling, put them back in the oven for a few minutes longer and
  allow them to cool again. Yield: About 150.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppery Molasses Crisps
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 45 servings
 
    1/2 c  Molasses
      3 tb Butter or margarine, cut
           Into pieces
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Plain yogurt
 
  "These extremely thin crackers have an intriguing balance of peppery
  snap and rich sweetness. They are addictive by themselves and make an
  elegant hors d'oeuvre when spread with herbed cream cheese. 350~F. 10
  to 15 minutes
  
  Combine the molasses and butter in a small sauce pan. Stir over low
  heat until the butter is melted. Remove from the heat and cool
  slightly.
  
  In the food processor or a large bowl, combine the flour, pepper, and
  salt and mix well. Stir the yogurt into the molasses mixture and then
  add to the flour mixture and blend to form a smooth dough.
  
  Remove the dough to a lightly-floured sheet of wax paper or lightly
  buttered aluminum foil and shape it into a log or cylinder
  approximately 1-1/2 inches thick and 12 inches long. Roll the log in
  the wax paper or foil and chill until firm, 45 minutes minimum.
  
  Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  When ready to bake, slice the log into 1/4-inch slices. Roll each
  slice with a floured rolling pin to form very thin ovals, about 1/16
  inch thick. The ovals may stick either to your rolling pin or to your
  rolling surface. Gently peel them off. Place the ovals on a lightly
  greased or parchemnt-lined baking sheet and prick each one 2 or 3
  times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake 10 to 15 minutes, until the crackers are medium brown. Those
  that are rolled slightly thinner than the others will brown first. Be
  ready to remove those from the sheet to cool while the others
  continue baking. Cool on racks. The crackers will crispen while
  cooling. Yield: 40-45.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Potato Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 70 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Potato flour
      2 tb Dried chives, OR
      6 tb Fresh, minced chives
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Water
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
           Paprika for the tops (opt.)
 
  "A healthful and appealing alternative to potato chips for kids and
  adults alike. We add chopped chives for a classic baked potato flavor
  combination, but various herbs would complement the strong potato
  flavor of this cracker. 350~F. 15 to 30 minutes Prehat the oven to
  350~F.
  
  In the food processor or a large bowl, combine the flours, chives,
  salt, and pepper. Cut in the shortening until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Slowly blend in the water to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out into a thin rectangle 1/16 to 1/8
  inch thick. Sprinkle lightly and evenly with a little salt and
  paprika, if desired, and roll over the dough lightly with the rolling
  pin.
  
  With a sharp kife or a cookie cutter, cut into 2-inch squares or other
  shapes. Transfer them to an ungreased baking sheet. Prick each
  cracker 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden brown. Some crackers will
  brown more quickly than others, so keep a careful watch during the
  last five minutes of baking. Remove to a rack to cool. Yield: 65-70.
  
  VARIATIONS: For the ultimate baked potato cracker, substitute sour
  cream for the water and crumble crisp bacon into the flour. Increase
  or decreas the amount of pepper to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curry Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 95 servings
 
      3 tb Butter or margarine
  1 1/2 tb Very finely minced onion
      1 ts Pressed garlic (about 4
           Medium cloves)
    3/4 ts Very finely minced fresh
           Ginger OR
    1/4 ts Ground dried ginger
  1 1/2 ts Ground dried cumin
  1 1/2 ts Ground dried coriander
  1 1/2 ts Ground dried turmeric
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
 
  "The flavors of traditional curry spices are accentuated and subtly
  blended by sauteing them in butter before mixing with the other
  ingredients. The result is an exotic cracker that makes superb buffet
  fare. Turmeric lends a brilliant, beautiful yellow color. These fire
  crackers are good with a mild, yogurt-based dip. 325~F. 20 to 25
  minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Melt the butter over medium heat in a small frying pan. Add the onion,
  garlic, and ginger (if using fresh ginger) and saute until the onion
  is translucent. Add the cumin, corinder, turmeric, and cayenne (and,
  if using it, the ground dried ginger) and stir well over medium heat
  for about 1 minute.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, stir together the flour and
  salt. Add the spice mixture and blend very well until the mixture
  resembles coarse meal and is a bright yellow color. Slowly add the
  water and blend until the dough will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured surface or
  pastry cloth, roll thin, 1/16 to 1/8 inch. With a sharp knife, cut
  into 2-inch squares or other shapes. Prick each one 2 or 3 times with
  the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, until crisp. Cool on a rack. Yield: 85-95.
  
  VARIATIONS: If necessary, substitute 2 Tablespoons "curry powder,"
  for the cumin, turmeric, coriander, and cayenne. Curry powder is
  simply a commercial blend of various spices. For a spicier cracker,
  increase the amount of cumin, corinader, and turmeric to 2 teaspoons
  each. And for a more fiery cracker, increase the amount of cayenne.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic-Poppy Seed Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 55 servings
 
    1/3 c  Poppy seeds, toasted
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 ts Sugar
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 lg Cloves garlic, pressed
    1/3 c  Plus 1 Tablespoon vegetable
           Shortening
    1/3 c  Water
      1    Egg, lightly beaten, for
           Glazing the tops
 
  "The ever-popular garlic imbues these crackers with an unmistakable
  personality. They stand alone and also go well with cold, crisp
  cucumber slices. 325~F. 30 to 35 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Stir together the poppy seeds, flour, sugar, salt, and pepper in the
  food processor or in a large bowl. Add the garlic and mix well.
  
  Cut the shortening into the flour mixture until it resembles coarse
  meal. Blend in enough of the water to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, 1/8 inch thick. With a cookie
  cutter, cut into 2-inch circles and place on an ungreased baking
  sheet. Prick each circle 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork. Brush
  the tops with the beaten egg, if desired.
  
  Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, turning over once after about 15 minutes.
  Remove when the crackers are lightly browned and crisp. Yield: 50-55.
  
  VARIATION: In place of the garlic, use 1/3 cup finely minced fresh
  onion.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream-Onion Twists
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 90 servings
 
  2 1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      2 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/3 c  Very finely minced onion
      2 ts Dried chives, OR
      2 tb Fresh, finely chopped
           Chives
    1/3 c  Sour cream
 
  "These hearty crackers reflect the clean, clear flavors of sour cream
  and onions. They are impressive, reliable standbys for entertaining
  of all types. 350~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  Stir together the flour, sugar, salt, and pepper in the food
  processor or a large bowl. Add the onion and mix well.
  
  In a separate bowl, thoroughly blend the sour cream and egg together.
  Add the sour cream mixture to the flour mixture and blend well to
  form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball. If necessary
  to achieve the proper consistency for rolling, add 1 additional
  Tablespoon sour cream.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, 1/16 inch thick. To make the
  twists, cut the dough into strips 3/4 inch by 6 inches. Twist the
  ends of each strip in opposite directions and press the ends down on
  the baking sheet to keep them from unwinding.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the twists are lightly browned.
  The ends will be slightly thinner from the pressing and will brown
  first. Cool on a rack. Yield: 85-90.
  
  VARIATIONS: If preferred, these crackers can be baked flat in 2-inch
  squares or circles. Be sure to remember to prick each one 2 or 3
  times with the tines of a fork. Brush the tops with a lightly beaten
  egg, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Sticks
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 70 servings
 
      3 c  All-purpose flour
      4 ts Dried herbs, crushed with
           The fingers or a rolling
           Pin, OR
      4 tb Finely chopped, fresh herbs
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Water
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten
           And diluted with 1 to 2 Tb
           Milk for the tops
 
  "The herb flavors become intense in these simple crackers. Try any of
  your favorite herbs and spices, alone or in combinations. Dill works
  well, as does a mix of four parts basil to one part oregano. These
  crackers go well with dips and are expecially good crumbled into
  soups and salads.
  
  325~F.      15 to 20 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Combine the flour, herbs, salt, and pepper in a large bowl or in the
  food processor. Add the oil and blend until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Slowly blend in enough of the water to form a dough that
  will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out very thin, 1/8 inch maximum.
  
  With a sharp knife, cut the dough into rectangles 1 inch by 5 inches
  and place them on an ungreased baking sheet.
  
  Prick each cracker in 3 places with a fork, pressing all the way
  through the dough. Brush the tops with the egg mixture. Bake for 10
  minutes. Turn the crackers over, brush them with the egg mixture, and
  continue baking for another 5 to 10 mintues. Cool on a rack. These
  crackers will crispen as they cool. If some of them are still not
  crisp after cooling, put them back in the oven for a few minutes and
  let them cool again. Yield: 60-70.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zesty Rosemary-Rye Sticks
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk (2-1/4 teaspoons) active
           Dry yeast
      2 tb Molasses
    1/4 c  Warm water
      1 ts Orange zest (approx. 1/2
           Medium orange)
      1 ts Lemon zest (approx. 1/2
           Medium lemon)
  1 1/2 c  Rye flour
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      1 tb Dried rosemary, OR
      3 tb Fresh rosemary, finely
           Chopped
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Orange juice, fresh or
           Reconstituted
           Cornmeal to sprinkle on the
           Baking sheeet
      1    Egg, lightly beaten with 1
           Tablespoon water
    1/8 ts Salt, for glazing the tops
           Coarse salt for the tops
 
  "The citrus zest undertone of these versatile bread sticks marries
  well with the rosemary and molasses to produce an intriguing addition
  to a picnic basket or a formal dinner. 325~F. 30 to 35 minutes
  Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  In a small bowl, combine the yeast with the molasses and warm water.
  Set aside in a warm place until the yeast starts to foam, about 5 to
  10 minutes. Prepare the zest by lightly grating the outer peel of the
  orange and lemon against the fine grate of a cheese grater. Use only
  the colored part of the rind; the underlying white portion is bitter.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flours, salt,
  and baking soda. Stir in the orange zest, lemon zest, and rosemary
  and mix well. Add the oil, egg, and orange juice and mix well. Add
  the yeast mixture and mix until well blended.
  
  Knead well by hand for about 5 minutes on a lightly floured surface
  until the dough is smooth and springy to the touch. Place the dough
  in a large, lightly oiled bowl and turn over to coat all sides. Cover
  with a damp towel and set in a warm place until the dough has doubled
  in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  Punch the dough down and turn out onto a lightly floured surface or
  pastry cloth. With a sharp knife, divide the dough into 12 small
  pieces. With your hands, roll each piece into a stick approximately
  12 inches long. You will have a more even-looking stick if you place
  the dough on a firm surface and roll your hands across the top,
  moving from the center outward.
  
  Place the sticks 1 inch apart on a baking sheet that has been lightly
  sprinkled with cornmeal. Cover the sheet with a towel and let the
  sticks rise slightly in a warm place for 10 to 15 minutes.
  
  Brush the tops of the sticks with the lightly beaten egg mixture and
  sprinkle with coarse salt. If desired, sprinkle with chopped rosemary
  for additional flavor. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until well
  browned.
  
  Cool on a rack. Yield: 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fennel and Onion Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 70 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Fennel seeds
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper
      6 tb (1/4 cup plus 2 Tb)
           Shortening
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
  1 1/4 c  Minced onion (about one
           Medium onion)
      2 tb Water
 
  "These crackers are flaky and tender, yet crisp. Packed with onions
  and lots of licorice-like fennel flavor, they are almost addictive.
  375~F. 15 to 20 minutes Preheat the oven to 375~F.
  
  Roughly grind the fennel seeds in a food mill or blender or chop them
  by hand with a knife. You may want to do a large batch so that you
  have them on hand for the next time you bake this cracker. If you
  want a stronger fennel flavor, grind a little extra for the tops of
  the crackers.
  
  In the food processor or in a large bowl, combine the flour, fennel,
  salt, and pepper. Cut in the shortening and butter until the mixture
  resembles coarse meal. Stir in the minced onion. Blend in enough of
  the water to form a smooth dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out into a rectangle 1/8 to 1/4 inch
  thick. If desired, sprinkle lightly and evenly with extra ground
  fennel seeds and gently roll the rolling pin over the dough. With a
  sharp knife, cut into 2-inch squares and transfer to an ungreased
  baking sheet. Prick each square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden brown around the edges.
  Cool on a rack. Yield: 65-70.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mustard Seed-Wheat Germ Wafers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 65 servings
 
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
      1 tb Whole mustard seeds
    3/4 c  Toasted wheat germ
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 c  Water
 
  "This curious combination creates flavorful crackers with a unique
  texture. As the basis of a light meal, they go well with cream cheese
  and smoked fish. 350~F. 10 to 15 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  In the food processor or in a large bowl, combine the flour, mustard
  seeds, wheat germ, and salt. Cut in the butter until the mixture
  resembles coarse meal. Mix in enough of the water to form a dough
  that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out into a rectangle 1/16 inch thick.
  With a sharp knife, cut into 2-inch squares or desired shapes.
  Transfer them to an ungreased baking sheet. Prick each square 2 or 3
  times, with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 10 to 15 minutes, or until golden brown around the edges.
  Cool on a rack. Yield: 55-65.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallion Bread Sticks
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 tb Active dry yeast
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 c  Warm water
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    3/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Minced fresh scallions
           Cornmeal to sprinkle on the
           Baking sheet
      1    Egg lightly beaten with 1
           Tablespoon water and a
           Pinch of salt for the glaze
           Coarse salt for the tops
 
  "These crunchy bread sticks are ideal companions to a hot soup or
  stew. 350~F.      35 to 45 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  In a small bowl, combine the yeast with the sugar and the warm water.
  Set aside in a warm place until the yeast starts to foam, about 5 to
  10 minutes.
  
  Measure the flour into a large bowl or the food processor. Stir in the
  yeast mixture, the oil, and the 3/4 cup water. Mix well.
  
  Add the scallions. Knead by hand for about 5 minutes on a lightly
  floured surface or by pulsing about 10 to 15 times in the food
  processor. Knead until the scallions are thoroughly kneaded in and
  the dough is smooth and springy to the touch. Place the dough in a
  large, lightly oiled bowl and turn over to coat all sides. Cover with
  a damp cloth and set the dough in a warm place until it has doubled
  in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  Punch the dough down and turn out onto a lightly floured surface or
  pastry cloth. Knead a few strokes. With a knife, cut the dough into
  12 to 16 equal pieces. With your hands, roll each piece into a stick
  approximately 12 inches long. You will have a more even-looking stick
  if you place the dough on a firm surface and roll your hands across
  the top, moving from the center outward.
  
  Place the sticks 1 inch apart on a baking sheet that has been lightly
  sprinkled with cornmeal. Cover the sheet with a damp towel and let the
  sticks rise slightly in a warm place for about 15 to 20 minutes.
  
  Brush the tops of the sticks with the egg mixture and sprinkle with
  coarse salt. Bake 35 to 45 minutes, until lightly browned and crisp.
  Cool on a rack. Yield: 12 to 16.
  
  VARIATIONS: For cheese bread sticks, knead in 1/2 cup grated Parmesan
  cheese with or instead of the scallions.
  
  The Scallions may be omitted from this recipe to produce equally good
  plain bread sticks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Celery Seed Circles
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      3 c  All-purpose flour
  2 1/2 ts Celery seeds
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      3 tb Vegetable shortening
 
         About 2/3 cup water
  
  "Celery seeds are not the seeds of the celery you eat as a vegetable.
  Rather, they are the tangy fruit of a plant related to the parsley
  family. Try them with a cold glass of fruit juice mixed with club
  soda. 350~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  Stir together the flour, celery seeds, salt, and pepper in a large
  bowl or in the food processor. Cut in the shortening until the
  mixture is the consistency of coarse meal. Add enough of the water to
  form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, 1/8 inch thick maximum. Cut the
  dough into 2-inch circles with a cookie cutter. Arrange them on
  ungreased baking sheets.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, until lightly browned. Cool on a rack.
  Yield: 40-50.
  
  VARIATION: Caraway seeds can be substituted for celery seeds. Grind
  the caraway seeds in a food mill before using. The caraway version of
  these crackers is delicious with cream cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Tea Wafers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 65 servings
 
    1/2 c  Plus 1 Tb warm, very strong
           Brewed spice tea
      2 tb Honey
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
 
  "These crispy, subtle crackers capture the flavor of your favorite
  spice tea. 325~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Dissolve the honey in the warm tea.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, mix the flour and baking
  soda together. Cut the butter into the flour mixture until it
  resembles coarse meal. Slowly mix in about 1/2 cup of the tea-honey
  mixture, just enough to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. Reserve the remaining tea to glaze the tops of the
  crackers.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 inch thick. With a sharp
  knife, cut the dough into 2-inch shapes.
  
  Place the crackers on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
  sheet. Prick each one all the way through in 2 or 3 places with the
  tines of a fork. Bake for 10 minutes, turn and brush the tops with
  the remaining tea-honey liquid. Continue baking for another 10 to 15
  minutes, or until golden brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 60-65.
  
  VARIATION: Using a smoky tea such as Darjeeling also produces an
  interesting cracker.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Applesauce-Whole Wheat Squares
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 55 servings
 
      2 c  Whole wheat or whole wheat
           Pastry flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Plus 1 Tablespoon oil
      1 c  Apple sauce
 
  "Their true applesauce taste makes these crackers a welcome
  after-school snack. 350~F. 15 to 20 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  Stir together the flour, cinnamon, and salt in a large bowl or in the
  food processor. Add the oil and blend until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Add the apple sauce and mix well. Gather into a ball. If
  dough is too wet, knead in a little flour.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, 1/16 to 1/8 inch. With a sharp
  knife, cut into 2-inch squares. Arrange on a baking sheet. Prick each
  square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 10 minutes. Turn and continue baking for another 5 to 10
  minutes, or until crisp. Cool on a rack. Yield: 50-55.
  
  VARIATION: If you want a sweeter cracker, sprinkle the tops with
  turbinado sugar. Roll the rolling pin lightly over the tops before
  cutting to press in the sugar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: V-8 Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 75 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cracked pepper or coarsely
           Ground pepper
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    2/3 c  Plus 1 Tablespoon V-8 juice
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce, such as
           Tabasco
 
  "The vegetable juice creates an inviting red color that forewarns of
  the snap in these spicy crackers, which comes from black pepper and
  hot pepper sauce. These are excellent party snacks. 325~F. 20 to 25
  minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Stir together the flour, salt, and pepper in a large bowl or in the
  food processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse
  meal.
  
  In a separate bowl, mix the V-8 and the hot pepper sauce. Add the V-8
  mixture to the flour mixture and blend to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured surface or
  pastry cloth, roll thin, 1/16 to 1/8 inch thick. With a sharp knife,
  cut the dough into 2-inch squares and place them on an ungreased
  baking sheet. Prick each square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, turning over after 10 minutes. Cool on a
  rack. Yield: 70-75.
  
  VARIATIONS: You can substitute or combine tomato juice and other
  vegetable juices with the V-8.
  
  For more spice, increase the hot pepper sauce or add celery seed,
  cayenne, or your favorite herb.
  
  Substituting 2/3 cup of wheat or oat bran for the same amount of
  flour will increases the healthfulness of these crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Crunches
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    2/3 c  Jellied or whole berry
           Cranberry sauce
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten,
           For glazing the tops
 
  "Tart and tangy, these crackers capture the distinctive flavor of
  cranberries. Serve them with wine or apple juice as an ideal starter
  for a fall picnic. 325~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat oven to 325~F.
  
  Stir together the flours and salt in a large bowl or in the food
  processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  
  Add the cranberry sauce and blend to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball. Divide the dough into 2 equal portions
  for rolling. On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll out to about
  1/8 inch thick.
  
  With a cookie cutter or a small glass, cut the dough into 2-inch
  circles. Prick all the way through each circle with a fork in 2 or 3
  places. Bake for 10 minutes. Brush the tops with egg white and
  continue baking another 10 to 15 minutes, or until lightly browned
  and crisp. Cool the crackers on a wire rack. Yield: 50-60.
  
  VARIATIONS: For a crunchier cranberry cracker, add 1/4 cup Grape Nuts
  cereal or chopped, toasted walnuts with the flours. If necessary, add
  additional cranberry sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yam Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 70 servings
 
      1 lg Yam or sweet potato,
           Peeled and cut into large
           Pieces
      1 c  All-purpose or whole wheat
           Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
  2 1/2 ts Raw sugar or brown sugar,
           Loosely packed
      1 tb Butter or margarine,
           Softened
 
  "A painless way to eat your vegetables, these crackers have a mellow
  yam taste. Spread some sweet butter on a few and rest under a shade
  tree, thinking of Thanksgivings past. 325~F. 25 to 30 minutes
  
  Place the yam in a saucepan, cover with water, and boil until soft
  (about 15 minutes). The tines of a fork should push easily into the
  yam. Drain the yam. Puree the yam with 2 Tablespoons of water in the
  blender or food processor, or puree it by hand with a fork or potato
  masher. Measure out 1 cup of the puree for use in this recipe. Save
  the rest for another use.
  
  Preheat the oven to 325~F. In a large bowl or in the food processor,
  combine the flour, salt, cinnamon, and sugar.
  
  Cut the butter into the flour mixture until it resembles coarse meal.
  Add the pureed yam and blend well. Gather the dough into a ball. The
  dough will be very soft. For easier rolling, wrap it in wax paper and
  chill for 1/2 hour.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a well-floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll the dough out to about 1/8 inch thick.
  With a sharp knife, cut the dough into graham cracker shapes, 2-inch
  by 3-inch rectangles. Transfer them to an ungreased baking sheet.
  Prick each one in 3 places with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 minutes. Turn the crackers and continue baking for
  another 5 to 10 minutes, or until they are just golden brown. Remove
  any crackers that brown before the others. Be careful not to overbake
  these crackers. Cool them on a rack. Yield: 60-70.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange-Wine Wafers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
  2 1/2 tb Orange zest (2 large
           Oranges)
      2 c  Pastry or all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 c  White wine
 
  "A perfectly simple cracker delicately flavored with orange zest and
  wine, this is an ideal match for a glass of white wine. We prefer to
  use Chardonnay, but any dry white wine that you may have already
  opened will work well. 350~F. 15 to 20 minutes Preheat the oven to
  350~F.
  
  To prepare the zest, lightly grate the outer peel of the oranges
  against the fine grate of a cheese grater. Use only the colored part
  of the rind; the underlying white portion is bitter.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flour, orange
  zest, salt, and baking powder. Cut in the butter until the mixture
  resembles coarse meal. While stirring, add the wine in a slow stream
  and blend to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll out to a rectangle
  approximately 1/4 inch thick and position so the long edge runs
  horizontally in front of you. Fold the left third of the dough over
  the center third. Likewise, fold the right third over the center. The
  dough is now in 3 layers with the seam running vertically. Give the
  dough a quarter turn so the seam now runs horizontally. Roll out the
  dough again to a rectangle about 1/4 inch thick. Fold and turn the
  dough again as in the first step. You are now ready for the final
  rolling.
  
  Roll the dough out somewhat thinner this time, about 1/8 inch thick.
  With a sharp knife, cut in to 2-inch squares or shapes as desired and
  place each one on an ungreased baking sheet.
  
  Prick each cracker all the way through 2 or 3 times with the tines of
  a fork. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until lightly browned. Remove to a
  rack to cool. Yield: 40-50.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Succotash Snacks
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 55 servings
 
      1 c  Lima bean flour (available
           At health food or specialty
           Stores)
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Corn meal
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/3 c  Vegetable shortening
    2/3 c  Water
 
  "Lima beans and corn are a traditional combination which works very
  well in these crispy thin crackers. Served with a hearty bowl of
  soup, they are a lunch in themselves. 325~F. 25 to 30 minutes Preheat
  the oven to 325~F.
  
  Stir together the flours, corn meal, salt, and sugar in a large bowl
  or in the food processor. Cut in the shortening until the mixture
  resembles coarse meal.
  
  Blend in enough of the water to form a dough that will hold together
  in a cohesive ball. Divide the dough into 2 portions for rolling.
  Roll out to 1/16 to 1/8 inch. Cut into 2-inch shapes and place on an
  ungreased baking sheet. Prick each one 2 or 3 times with the tines of
  a fork.
  
  Bake for 15 minutes. Turn over and continue baking another 10 to 15
  minutes, or until medium brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 50-55.
  
  VARIATION: For a coarser texture and different taste, try substituting
  whole millet for the corn meal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garbanzo Bean (Chick-Pea) Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 65 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Garbanzo bean (chick-pea)
           Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar
    1/3 c  Vegetable shortening
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Oil for glazing the tops
      1 ts Salt for the tops
 
  "Don't pass over these crackers because they sound unusual. You will
  be surprised at how delicious they are. Like garbanzo beans
  themselves, these innovative crackers are a healthful, tasty addition
  to a fresh green salad. 325~F.      20 to 25 minutes Preheat oven to
  325~F.
  
  Combine the flours, salt, and sugar in the food processor or in a
  large bowl. Cut in the shortening until the mixture is the
  consistency of coarse meal. Blend in the water to form a dough that
  will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, no more than 1/8 inch thick.
  Using a rolling pin, spatula, or your hands, lift the rolled dough
  onto a large, ungreased baking sheet. With a sharp knife, score into
  2-inch squares without cutting all the way through the dough. Prick
  each square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 10 minutes. Glaze with the oil and lightly salt the tops.
  Bake for 5 to 10 minutes more, or until golden brown. Cool on a wire
  rack. Break into individual crackers when cool. Yield: 60-65.
  
  VARIATIONS: Any bean flour can be used. Purchase it at specialty or
  health food stores. Lima bean and black-eyed pea flours work well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 70 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      6 tb (3/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
      2 tb Honey
      2 tb Warm water
    2/3 c  (1 large) mashed banana
 
  "These flavorful crackers are an obvious choice for a breakfast
  snack. A wonderful fruit cobbler crust can be made by finely
  crumbling these crackers, moistening them with melted butter, and
  pressing them into a baking dish. 350~F. 15 to 20 minutes Preheat the
  oven to 350~F.
  
  Combine the flour, salt, and baking soda in a large bowl or in the
  food processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse
  meal. Add the banana and blend well.
  
  In a separate bowl, dissolve the honey in the warm water. Slowly add
  the sweetened water to the flour-banana mixture and blend to form a
  dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, at most 1/8 inch. With a cookie
  cutter or a small glass, cut into 2- to 2-1/2-inch circles. Arrange
  the circles on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet.
  
  Prick each cracker in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a fork. Bake
  for 15 to 20 minutes, turning over once during baking. These crackers
  should be medium brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 60-70.
  
  VARIATION: Substitute 1-1/2 cups rice flour for an equal amount of the
  all-purpose flour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Coconut Wafers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 80 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 tb Grated lemon zest
    1/2 c  Sugar
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
      2 c  All-purpose or pastry flour
    1/3 c  Unsweetened coconut, grated
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  "These delicate crackers never fail to attract a crowd. Fresh lemon
  zest is the secret to their popularity. Perfect party fare or dessert
  crackers, these treats are not too sweet, and they go well with a
  fresh pot of tea in the afternoon. You will bake these crackers again
  and again. 325~F. 12 to 15 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  To prepare the zest, lightly grate the outer peel of the lemon
  against the fine grate of a cheese grater. Use only the colored part
  of the rind; the underlying white portion is bitter. You should have
  about 1/2 Tablespoon zest for this recipe. Squeeze the lemon for its
  juice; you should have about 1-1/2 Tablespoons.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, cream the butter and sugar
  together. Add the egg, the lemon juice, and the lemon zest. In another
  bowl, combine the flour, coconut, baking powder, and salt.
  
  Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture and blend to form a dough
  that will hold together in a cohesive ball. Divide the dough into 2
  portions for rolling. On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll
  thin, at most 1/8 inch. Cut out individual crackers about 2 inches
  across with a cookie cutter, juice can, or knife and arrange on a
  lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet.
  
  Prick each cracker all the way through 2 or 3 times with the tines of
  a fork. Bake for 10 minutes. Turn the crackers over and bake another
  2 to 5 minutes, depending on the thickness, or until just very
  lightly browned. Cool the crackers on a rack. Yield: 75-80.
  
  VARIATIONS: Try substituting orange zest and orange juice for the
  lemon. If absolutely necessary, you can substitute dried ground lemon
  peel. The result will not be as fresh and tasty, however.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rye Crisps
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 40 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Rye flour
      2 tb Cornmeal
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Baking soda
    1/3 c  Loosely packed brown sugar
      1 tb Toasted caraway seeds,
           Coarsely ground in a food
           Mill or chopped by hand with
           A knife
  1 1/2 tb Powdered, unsweetened cocoa
      5 tb Plus 1 teaspoon (1/3 cup)
           Butter or margarine,
           Softened
      1 tb Toasted whole caraway seeds
      2 tb Dark molasses
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten
           And diluted with 1 Tb water
           For glazing the tops
 
  "The cocoa gives a dark color and rich flavor to these unique rye
  crisps. They go well with soups. Try them slightly warmed with cold
  Vichyssoise. 350~F.      12 to 18 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  In the food processor or a large bowl, mix the flours, cornmeal, salt,
  baking soda, brown sugar, ground caraway seeds, and cocoa. Cut in the
  butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  
  Add the whole caraway seeds and mix to distribute them evenly
  throughout the dough. Blend in the molasses and enough of the water
  to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Wrap the dough in plastic wrap or wax paper and chill for at least 1/2
  hour.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 inch. With a sharp knife,
  cut into 1-1/2 by 2-1/2-inch rectangles. Place them on a lightly
  greased or parchment-lined baking sheet.
  
  Prick each cracker 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork. Brush the
  tops with the egg white mixture. Bake for 12 to 18 minutes. The edges
  should be slightly browned, and the center surfaces should be firm
  and resist pressure when touched with your finger.
  
  Cool on a rack. Yield: 35-40.
  
  VARIATION: Substitute anise seeds for the caraway seeds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn-Millet Circles
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      1 c  Corn flour
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Whole millet
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Vegetable shortening
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  "Corn flour provides an extra special sweetness for these crackers.
  Millet gives them their incomparable texture. Corn-Millet Circles are
  great with sharp Cheddar cheese or a rich pate. 325~F. 25 to 30
  minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Mix the flours, millet, salt, and sugar together in a large bowl or
  in the food processor. Cut in the shortening until the mixture
  resembles coarse meal. Slowly blend in enough of the milk to form a
  dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8-inch thickness.
  
  Using a 2-inch round cookie-cutter or the rim of a small glass, cut
  out circular crackers. Place them on an ungreased baking sheet. Prick
  each in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until lightly browned, turning the
  crackers over half-way through. Cool on a rack. Yield: 40-50.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley-Oat Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 70 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Rolled oats (oatmeal)
  1 1/2 c  Barley flour (if
           Unavailable, use all-
           Purpose flour)
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Baking soda
    1/3 c  Vegetable shortening
      1 tb Honey
    1/2 c  Warm water
 
  "Barley flour gives these crackers lightness, and the oats provide a
  sweet, nutty flavor. For those cracker-lovers who are allergic to
  wheat, oats and barley are a blessing. Try these crackers with a
  glass of cold, freshly squeezed orange juice for a quick and
  nutritious breakfast. 350~F. 15 to 20 minutes Preheat the oven to
  350~F.
  
  Grind the oats in a blender or food processor to a fairly fine
  consistency (about 25 pulses with the food processor). In a large
  bowl or in the food processor, mix the oats with the flour, salt, and
  baking soda. Cut in the shortening until the mixture resembles coarse
  meal.
  
  In a small bowl, dissolve the honey in the warm water and slowly
  blend this sweetened water into the flour mixture until the dough
  will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, 1/8 inch. Cut out 2-inch crackers
  with a cookie cutter, juice can, or knife and arrange on a lightly
  greased or parchment-lined baking sheet.
  
  With the tines of a fork, prick each cracker 2 or 3 times. Bake for 10
  minutes. Turn the crackers over and bake another 5 to 10 minutes, or
  until very lightly browned. The flavor of these crackers is best if
  they are not allowed to become more than pale brown.
  
  Cool the crackers on a rack. Yield: 60-70.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buckwheat Flatbread
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Buckwheat flour
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Water
 
  "Buckwheat flour is available in health food and specialty stores. It
  has a musty, earthy flavor which gives an interesting twist to this
  simple, traditional flatbread-style cracker. It goes well with fruit
  and cheese. In the food processor or in a large bowl, combine the
  flours and salt. In a slow stream, stir in enough of the water to
  form a soft, but not sticky, dough.
  
  Remove to a well-floured surface or pastry cloth and knead lightly.
  Cut the dough into 6 equal portions and roll each piece into a large,
  thin circle, approximately 1/16 inch thick and 8 inches in diameter.
  Prick each circle all over with the tines of a fork.
  
  To cook, gently place the circles, one at a time, on a hot griddle or
  saute pan. Cook over medium heat until pale brown spots begin to
  develop on the underside of the cracker, 2 to 3 minutes. Flip the
  cracker to cook the second side. Continue flipping in this manner
  until the cracker feels dry and crisp. Remove to a rack to cool. If
  upon cooling the cracker remains slightly pliable, you may return it
  to the pan for further cooking, or place in a preheated 350~F. oven
  for a few minutes, until fully "dried out." Yield: 6.
  
  VARIATIONS: For a crunchier cracker, add 1/3 cup buckwheat groats and
  increase the water slightly.
  
  Buckwheat has a strong flavor. According to your taste, you may wish
  to increase the all-purpose flour and decrease the amount of
  buckwheat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Corn Chips
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Corn flour
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Sesame seeds, toasted
      1 tb Oil
  1 1/2 ts Soy sauce or Tamari
      1 c  Water
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
 
  "Set these Sesame Corn Chips next to a bowl of homemade guacamole for
  a surefire hors d'oeurves success. A pitcher of spiced tomato juice
  would provide a pleasing addition. 350~F. 18 to 25 minutes Preheat
  the oven to 350~F.
  
  Stir together the flours, salt, and toasted sesame seeds in a large
  bowl or in the food processor. Add the oil and blend until the
  mixture resembles coarse meal. Add the soy sauce and blend in enough
  of the water to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive
  ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll as thin as possible, to about 1/16
  inch. Sprinkle with salt if desired and roll over the top of the
  dough with the rolling pin to press in the salt. With a sharp knife,
  score the dough into 2-inch squares. Prick each square 2 or 3 times
  with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 15 minutes. Turn over and continue baking another 32 to 20
  minutes. Cool on a wire rack.
  
  These crackers will crisp as they cool. If they are not crisp enough
  after cooling, put them back in the oven for a few minutes longer and
  allow them to cool again. Yield: 40-50.
  
  VARIATION: Try other roasted seeds, such as poppy seeds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Millet Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 85 servings
 
    1/4 c  Whole millet
    1/2 c  Millet flour
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Vegetable shortening
    5/8 c  (1/2 cup plus 2 Tb) milk
      1 tb Honey
 
  "Millet is an excellent grain which is too often overlooked. It adds
  both texture and a sweet flavor. These simple crackers are splendid
  with a fresh fruit salad. 350~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to
  350~F.
  
  Stir together the millet, flours, and salt in a large bowl or in the
  food processor. Cut in the shortening until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal. Warm the milk in a small saucepan. Dissolve the honey in
  the warm milk. Add this sweetened milk to the flour mixture and blend
  to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball. If
  necessary, add a little more milk.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll thin, maximum 1/8 inch. With a sharp
  knife, cut the dough into 2-inch squares and place them on a lightly
  greased or parchment-lined baking sheet. Prick each square 2 or 3
  times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 10 minutes. Turn over and continue baking another 10 to 15
  minutes, or until medium brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 75-85.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sprouted Rye Cakes
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 40 servings
 
      2 c  Sprouted rye
    1/4 ts Anise seeds, crushed with a
           Rolling pin
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
      1 c  Flour
 
  "Chewy and quite zesty, these flavorful Sprouted Rye Cakes are
  excellent with cold corned beef or pastrami. 300~F. 35 to 40 minutes
  Preheat the oven to 300~F.
  
  Drain the sprouted rye very well. Finely chop it in the food
  processor, blender, or by hand. (If you are using the blender, chop
  the rye about 1/3 cup at a time.) Add the anise seeds and salt and
  mix well. Blend in the egg.
  
  Mix in enough flour to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. The amount of flour needed will depend on how dry the
  sprouts were after draining. This dough is very sticky, and you will
  want to keep your fingers well-floured for the next operation.
  
  Using two spoons, divide the dough into small balls, about 1 inch in
  diameter. Place each ball on a lightly greased or parchment-lined
  baking sheet. Mash the balls into flat circles with the well-floured
  palm of your hand or the floured side of a glass.
  
  Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, turning once after about 20 minutes, when
  the bottoms have browned. Yield: 30-40.
  
  VARIATIONS: Try other sprouted grains, such as wheat or oats.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Triticale Crisps
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 75 servings
 
    1/2 c  Cracked wheat, soaked in
           Warm water for 5 to 10
           Minutes and drained well
  1 1/2 c  Triticale flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Water
 
  "This simple cracker provides a good way to taste the complex flavor
  of triticale. The cracked wheat adds texture and crunch. Add a few of
  these crackers and some sliced Swiss cheese to your family's lunch
  pails. 350~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  Combine the flour and salt in a large bowl or in the food processor.
  Blend in the oil until mixture resembles coarse meal.
  
  Add the cracked wheat and mix well. Slowly stir in enough of the
  water to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 inch. With a sharp knife or
  a cookie cutter, cut the dough into desired 2-inch shapes.
  
  Place on an ungreased or parchment-lined baking sheet. Bake for 20 to
  25 minutes, turning over after 10 minutes. Make sure these crackers
  get medium brown to bring out their flavor. Cool on a rack. Yield:
  60-75.
  
  VARIATION: For a more delicate cracker, roll the dough thinner, to
  1/16 inch, and reduce the baking time slightly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice-Flour-Soy Sauce Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 80 servings
 
      1 c  Rice flour
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Oil
      2 tb Soy sauce or Tamari, to
           Taste
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten
    1/4 c  Buttermilk or rehydrated
           Buttermilk powder
 
  "Rice flour gives these simple crackers a slightly grainy texture,
  and the soy sauce lends a lovely brown tint. This is just the cracker
  to serve as a light afternoon snack with pot of green tea. 325~F. 15
  to 20 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Combine the flours in a large bowl or in the food processor. Add the
  oil and blend until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Blend in the
  soy sauce and egg white. Blend in enough of the buttermilk, little by
  little, to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/16 inch thick. With a sharp
  knife or a cookie cutter, cut into 2-inch circles or squares. Place
  the crackers on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet.
  Prick each one with a fork in 2 or 3 places.
  
  Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until crisp, turning over once during
  baking. Cool on a rack. Yield: 70-80.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wheat Berry Whizzes
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 35 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  Raw wheat berries (whole
           Wheat kernels)
      4 c  Water for either soaking or
           Cooking the wheat berries
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Whole wheat or all-purpose
           Flour
           Oil for brushing the tops
           Salt for the tops (opt.)
 
  "These crackers have an intense wheat flavor that comes from using the
  whole grain. Enjoy them alone or with fresh fruit, such as pears and
  peaches. 350~F. 25 to 30 minutes
  
  Cover the wheat berries with the water and soak overnight. Or, if you
  want to make the crackers the same day, cook the berries in the water
  over a moderate heat for 20 minutes, or until they are tender. Drain
  the berries in a sieve for 10 minutes. They should be well drained,
  but not dry.
  
  Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  Put the wheat berries into the food processor and process them to a
  pulp. If you do not have a food processor, use your blender,
  processing about 1/3 cup at a time. Blend until there are no whole
  berries left. Place the pulp in a large bowl and blend in the egg and
  the oil.
  
  With your hands, work in enough of the flour to form a dough that
  will hold together in a cohesive ball. Divide it into 2 equal
  portions for rolling. On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll out
  to a thickness of 3/16 inch.
  
  Cut the dough into 2- by 3-inch rectangles. With a metal spatula,
  transfer the individual crackers to an ungreased baking sheet. This
  dough has a tendency to tear before it is baked, so treat it gently.
  Be sure to cut all the way through the dough before trying to lift
  the crackers.
  
  Brush the tops with oil and sprinkle lightly and evenly with salt, if
  desired. Bake for 15 minutes. Turn the crackers over, brush the tops
  again, and bake for another 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are
  lightly browned. Cool on racks. Yield: 30-35.
  
  VARIATION: If you like cinnamon toast, try the following: After
  turning and brushing, sprinkle a little sugar and cinnamon on the
  freshly brushed tops and continue to bake as directed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Armenian Cracker Bread
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk (2-1/4 teaspoons) active
           Dry yeast
      2 ts Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Warm water
      4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Sesame seeds, toasted
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  "Very aromatic and delicate, this Armenian Cracker Bread is the
  perfect complement to your favorite chicken salad. 350~F. 8 to 12
  minutes
  
  In a small bowl, combine the yeast with 1/2 teaspoon of the sugar and
  1/4 cup of the warm water. Set aside in a warm place until the yeast
  is dissolved and starts to foam, about 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  Combine the flour, sesame seeds, remaining 1-1/2 teaspoons of sugar,
  and salt in a large bowl or the food processor. Stir in the yeast
  mixture and mix well. Add enough of the remaining 3/4 to 1 cup warm
  water to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball. The
  dough should be smooth and elastic, not sticky.
  
  Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl and turn over to coat all
  sides. Cover with a damp towel and set it in a warm place until it
  has doubled in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  Preheat the oven to 350~F. Punch the dough down and turn out onto a
  lightly floured surface. Knead a few strokes. Cut the dough into 12
  equal pieces. Roll each piece into a large circle approximately 7 to
  8 inches in diameter and 1/8 inch thick.
  
  Place the circles on a baking sheet and prick them all over with the
  tines of a fork. Bake for 8 to 12 minutes, until just barely browned
  and crisp. Cool on a rack. Yield: 12.
  
  VARIATIONS: Substitute poppy seeds for the sesame seeds, or omit the
  seeds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scottish Oat Cakes
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 35 servings
 
      2 c  Finely ground oat meal
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Baking soda
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Water
 
  "These are great alone or spread with butter and honey. The finely
  ground oat meal called for in this recipe is not the familiar rolled
  oats, but is similar in texture to fine corn meal. It is obtainable
  in health food or specialty stores, or you can grind your own from
  steel cut oats. 325~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Stir together the oat meal, salt, and baking soda in the food
  processor or in a large bowl.
  
  Cut in the butter until it is evenly mixed throughout. Add just
  enough of the water to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. The dough will be somewhat crumbly.
  
  Divide into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a lightly floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to about 1/8 inch thick. With a
  cookie cutter, cut into 2-inch circles. Place the circles on an
  ungreased baking sheet. Prick each 2 or 3 times with the tines of a
  fork. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until crisp. Cool on a rack.
  Yield: 30-35.
  
  VARIATION: An alternative method is to roll the dough a little
  thicker, about 3/16 inch, cut into 3-inch triangular shapes, and cook
  them on a griddle. Gently place each cake on a medium hot skillet or
  griddle. After 2 to 3 minutes, the undersides will show browning and
  the edges may start to turn up. Turn the cakes over for a few
  minutes. Remove the cakes to a preheated 300~F. oven and bake them
  for about 5 to 10 minutes, until they are crisp and thoroughly dry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scandinavian Hardtack
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Rye flour
  1 1/2 c  Whole wheat or all-purpose
           Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Brown sugar, firmly packed
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Plain yogurt
 
  "The yogurt lends an initial tartness, but the aftertaste is mellow
  and full of rye flavor. This simple cracker is good with peach jam.
  300~F. 30 to 35 minutes Preheat oven to 300~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flours, salt,
  and sugar.
  
  Add the oil and blend until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Add the
  yogurt and blend to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive
  ball. The dough should be quite stiff. Divide into 4 equal portions
  for rolling.
  
  On a floured surface, roll these out, one at a time, into large
  circles. Roll as thin as possible, about 1/16 inch, so that each is
  approximately 12 inches in diameter. Prick all over with a fork,
  making certain to push all the way through the dough.
  
  Place on an ungreased baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes. Turn the
  circles over and continue baking for another 15 to 20 minutes, or
  until crisp and completely dried throughout. Watch carefully and
  remove the hardtack the moment it starts to brown. Browning adversely
  affects the flavor of these crackers. Cool on a rack.
  
  VARIATION: All rye flour can be used instead of the wheat-rye
  combination.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old Country Buttermilk Pretzels
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 pk (2-1/4 teaspoons) active
           Dry yeast
      2 tb Plus 1 teaspoon sugar
    1/4 c  Warm water
    2/3 c  Buttermilk or rehydrated
           Buttermilk powder
      2 tb (1/4 stick) butter or
           Margarine
    1/2 c  Cold water
      4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 qt Water for boiling the
           Pretzels
    1/4 c  Baking soda
           Cornmeal for sprinkling on
           The baking sheet
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
           Coarse salt for the tops
 
  "This is truly a gourmet pretzel -- a step beyond traditional recipes
  from the Old Country. Excellent with beer or cider, but absolutely
  irresistible spread with cold sour cream. 350~F. 15 to 25 minutes
  
  In a small bowl, combine the yeast with 1 teaspoon of the sugar and
  the warm water. Set aside in a warm place until the yeast starts to
  foam, about 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  In a small saucepan, add the butter to the buttermilk and bring to a
  boil. Stir to melt the butter completely if necessary. Transfer the
  mixture to a bowl, add the cold water, stir, and allow the mixture to
  cool to lukewarm.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flour and salt.
  Stir in the yeast mixture and the cooled buttermilk mixture and mix
  well.
  
  Knead well by hand on a lightly floured surface or by pulsing about
  15 to 20 times in the food processor, until the dough is smooth and
  springy to the touch. Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl and
  turn over to coat all sides. Cover with a damp towel and set the
  dough in a warm place until it has doubled in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2
  hours.
  
  Punch the dough down and knead a few strokes. Wrap the dough in
  plastic wrap or wax paper and place it in the refrigerator until well
  chilled, approximately 1 hour.
  
  With a knife, cut the dough into 25 equal pieces. Using your hands,
  roll each piece into a cylinder 10 to 12 inches long. (If you prefer
  larger, soft pretzels, cut the dough into only 15 pieces and roll
  into cylinders that are 14 to 16 inches long.) You will have a more
  even-looking cylinder if you place the dough on a firm surface and
  roll your hands across the top, moving from the center outward. Shape
  each cylinder into a pretzel by forming a loop in the center,
  twisting the ends and attaching them to the bottom of the loop.
  
  Bring the 2 quarts of water to a boil. Add the baking soda and the
  remaining 2 Tablespoons sugar to the water. Drop the pretzels into the
  water one at a time and, with a slotted spoon, remove each one as it
  pops back up to the surface in about 2 to 3 seconds. Place the
  pretzels on a towel right side up to drain for a few minutes. Then
  place them on a baking sheet which has been lightly sprinkled with
  cornmeal. Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  Brush the tops with the egg and sprinkle lightly and evenly with
  coarse salt. Bake for 15 to 25 minutes, depending on size, until well
  browned. Cool on a rack. Yield: 15 large or 25 small pretzels.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Whole Wheat Focaccia Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 pk (1-1/8 teaspoons) active
           Dry yeast
    1/2 ts Sugar
    3/4 c  Warm water
  1 1/3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
    3/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Shortening
           Olive oil for the tops
 
  "This is an adaptation of Italian focaccia. It is one of the most
  crispy and crunchy crackers, as well as one of the most substantial.
  Try serving Focaccia Crackers with soft cheese or garlic-flavored
  cream cheese. It is somewhat more difficult to make than most other
  crackers, but worth twice the trouble. 375~F. 20 to 30 minutes
  
  In a small bowl, combine the yeast with the sugar and 1/4 cup of the
  warm water. Set aside in a warm place until the mixture starts to
  foam, about 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  Combine the flours and salt in a large bowl or in the food processor.
  Cut in the shortening until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Stir
  in the yeast mixture and the remaining 1/2 cup warm water. Blend to
  form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Knead well by hand for about 10 minutes on a lightly floured surface
  or by pulsing about 25 seconds in the food processor. Knead until the
  dough is smooth and springy to the touch.
  
  Place the dough in a lightly oiled bowl and turn it over to coat all
  sides. Cover with a damp towel and set the dough in a warm place
  until it has doubled in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  Punch the dough down and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface or
  pastry cloth. Roll it into a rectangular shape approximately 1/4 inch
  thick. Place the dough on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
  sheet, cover with a damp towel, and let it rise for another 35 to 45
  minutes.
  
  Using both hands, gently push your fingertips all over the top of the
  risen dough, leaving indentations throughout. Cover it with a damp
  towel again and put in a warm place until doubled in bulk, about
  1-1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  Preheat the oven to 375~F. With your fingers or a soft pastry brush,
  lightly brush the top with olive oil. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes,
  until very crisp. Cool on a rack. When cooled, break into small,
  irregularly shaped pieces, or into 2 large crackers that can be
  broken off as they are nibbled.
  
  VARIATIONS: Sprinkle the top of the dough with rosemary, basil, or
  your favorite herb after brushing with the olive oil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Norwegian Flatbread
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 sm Potatoes, boiled or baked
           And pureed in the blender
           Or food processor (about
           1/2 cup)
      2 c  Of rye flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Water or potato water
 
  "It is impossible to find a more spartan cracker than Norwegian
  Flatbread. It can be made with only rye flour, salt, and water, but
  adding a pureed vegetable, such as potatoes, increases the nutritive
  value and adds subtle flavor. This flatbread is excellent with mild
  cheeses.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, blend the pureed potato,
  flour, and salt together.
  
  Add the water and blend well until the dough will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. With a sharp knife, divide into 10 equal portions. Turn
  these out, one at a time, onto a floured surface and roll into
  circles. Roll as thin as possible, at most 1/8 inch, so each is
  approximately 7 to 8 inches across. Prick all over with the tines of
  a fork.
  
  Lightly oil a griddle or large skillet and heat until it is very hot.
  One by one, place the rolled circles onto the griddle and cook until
  the bottoms begin to show light browning. Then turn and cook the
  other side. Keep turning until the whole cracker is dry and crisp. Do
  not allow the flatbread to get more than medium brown. Cool on a
  rack. Yield: 10.
  
  VARIATIONS: Substitute any pureed vegetable for potatoes. Flours
  other than rye can also be used. Try wheat or barley. If the dough is
  too sticky to roll, add a little more flour. Letting the dough rest
  for an hour after mixing will also make it easier to roll.
  
  Flatbread can also be cooked in the oven. Bake on an ungreased baking
  sheet at 400~F. for 8 to 12 minutes, or until crisp, turning 2 or 3
  times.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Papadams
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Garbanzo bean (chick-pea)
           Flour
      1 ts Cracked or coarsely ground
           Black pepper
      1 ts Ground cumin seed
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 cl Garlic, pressed
    1/4 c  Plus about 1 Tablespoon
           Water
           Cayenne for dusting tops
           Oil for frying (optional)
 
  "Papadams are delicious, spicy Indian crackers that traditionally
  require many ingredients and take days to make. They are prepared
  ahead in quantity and deep fried just before serving. This is a
  simplified version. It still requires time, but the results are worth
  it. It is not the easiest of recipes, so if you don't have a perfect
  result the first time, try again. You will be glad you did.
  
  Stir together the flour, pepper, ground cumin seed, and salt in a
  large bowl or in the food processor. Mix thoroughly until the spices
  are evenly distributed. Add the garlic and mix well. Add enough of
  the water to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball.
  If necessary, add up to 1 additional Tablespoon water. The dough
  should be fairly stiff and dry. If it is too wet, it will not roll
  well.
  
  Knead the dough for about 5 minutes by hand or pulse for about 15
  seconds in the food processor. The dough should be smooth.
  
  With your hands, shape the dough into a cylinder or log about 2 inches
  thick and 6 inches long. With a sharp knife, cut the cylinder into
  1/2-inch thick slices.
  
  The next step uses oil, so do not use your pastry cloth and rolling
  pin sleeve. Place each slice on a lightly oiled surface. Lightly oil
  the top of the slice and then roll out into a very thin circle about
  6 or 7 inches in diameter. Papadams must be rolled extremely thin,
  maximum 1/16 inch. If the dough sticks to your rolling pin, gently
  pull it off. Dust the tops of each papadam with cayenne pepper.
  
  Using a metal spatula to loosen the edges of the papadams from the
  rolling surface, carefully place them on large baking sheets. The
  traditional method for preparing and frying papadams is described
  below. You can also bake them in a 300~F. oven for about 15 to 25
  minutes, or until crisp and dry. The cooking time may vary beyond
  this range depending upon the thickness and moisture in the rolled
  dough. Cool them on a rack.
  
  To prepare the papadams in an authentic manner, don't bake them. First
  allow them to dry by leaving them in the sun for a few hours or by
  placing them in a very low oven (less than 200~F.) for 1 to 2 hours,
  turning occasionally. Dry the papadams until they are just slightly
  flexible and show no moisture. They should not brown or bake,
  however. At this point, the papadams may be stacked flat and stored
  in an airtight container until needed. They  will keep for months if
  stored properly.
  
  When ready to serve, heat about 1/8 inch of oil in a large skillet.
  The oil should be hot, but not smoking. A drop of water flicked into
  the skillet should sizzle immediately. One at a time, drop the
  papadams into the hot oil. Turn the papadam when it begins to curl at
  the edges. It will quickly fry and become crisp. Remove it before it
  turns brown.
  
  Cool and drain the papadams on paper towels. Eat them immediately.
  Yield: 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zwieback
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      1 pk (2-1/4 teaspoons) active
           Dry yeast
    1/4 c  Plus 1/2 teaspoon sugar
    1/4 c  Warm water
      1 c  Plus 2 Tablespoons milk
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter or
           Margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/8 ts Ground mace
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
  3 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Butter, melted, for glazing
 
  "Once you have tried homemade Zwieback, you will never again think of
  it as only a "baby cracker." The seductive aroma from baking this
  fragrant cracker will envelop your kitchen. The final result is a
  complexity of flavor that is nothing less than spectacular. Zwieback
  takes a lot of effort to make -- but it's worth every minute.
  
  The method for making Zwieback is quite different from that for most
  other crackers. "Zwieback" means "twice baked." First you bake a
  yeast bread, aromatically flavored with nutmeg, cinnamon, vanilla,
  and mace. Then you slice it and slowly dry the slices in a slow oven.
  For convenience, make the bread over a two-day period. Bake the bread
  the first day and dry it the second. If stored in an airtight
  container, Zwieback will keep almost indefinitely. In a small bowl,
  combine the yeast with 1/2 teaspoon of the sugar and the warm water.
  Set aside in a warm place until the mixture starts to foam, about 5
  to 10 minutes.
  
  In a small saucepan, mix the milk and the remaining 1/4 cup of the
  sugar. Add the 4 Tablespoons butter and heat until the butter has
  completely melted. Transfer the mixture to a bowl and allow to cool
  to lukewarm.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the cooled milk
  mixture with the yeast mixture. Stir in the vanilla. Add the mace,
  cinnamon, and nutmeg and mix well. Beat in the egg.
  
  Slowly add the flour, adding just enough to make a smooth dough that
  is not sticky. If mixing by hand, the dough will become too stiff to
  stir, and you should knead in the last of the flour with your
  fingers. Then knead well for at least 5 minutes, forming the dough
  into a ball. If using a food processor, pulse until the dough comes
  together in a ball.
  
  Place the dough in a large, lightly oiled bowl and turn it over to
  coat all sides. Cover with a damp towel and set the dough in a warm
  place until it has doubled in bulk, about 1-1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  Punch the dough down and knead a few strokes. Cover and allow the
  dough to double in size again, 30 to 45 minutes.
  
  Punch the dough down and turn it out onto a lightly floured surface or
  pastry cloth. Knead about 30 seconds to remove the air. Divide the
  dough into 3 equal portions. With your hands, roll each into a smooth
  cylinder or loaf about 2 inches thick and 9 inches long.
  
  Place the loaves crosswise on a lightly greased or parchment-lined
  baking sheet, leaving at least 3 inches between the loaves. Brush all
  exposed surfaces of each loaf with the melted butter. Set the baking
  sheet in a warm place and let the loaves rise until doubled in bulk,
  about 30 minutes.
  
  Preheat the oven to 375~F.
  
  Bake the risen loaves for 25 to 30 minutes, or until the bottoms are
  reddish brown and make a hollow sound when thumped. Allow the loaves
  to cool thoroughly on racks.
  
  Preheat the oven to 200~F.
  
  Cut the cooled loaves into 1/2-inch slices. Place the slices flat on
  the baking sheet and allow them to dry out in the oven for 45 to 60
  minutes, or until thoroughly dry. Check occasionally and turn the
  slices over as they dry on one side. When dry, raise the oven
  temperature to 300~F. for 10 to 20 minutes to brown the Zwieback
  slightly.
  
  Cool on a rack. Yield: 40-50.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Grahams
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 40 servings
 
      2 c  Whole wheat flour
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Turbinado sugar (regular
           Sugar can be substituted)
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Warm water
 
  "These are slightly sweet crackers with a wonderful wheaty flavor. The
  crystalline turbinado sugar gives them a unique crunchiness. Perfect
  in a lunch bag or as an after-school snack, they are best next to a
  tall glass of cold milk. 375~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to
  375~F.
  
  Mix together the flours, sugar, salt, baking powder, and cinnamon in a
  large bowl or in the food processor. Cut the butter into these dry
  ingredients until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Dissolve the
  honey in the warm water. Add this honey-water mixture to the flour
  mixture and blend to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll the dough out to about 3/16 inch thick.
  With a sharp knife, cut into 2- by 3-inch rectangles. Prick each one
  all the way though in 3 or 4 places with the tines of a fork.
  
  Place the crackers on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
  sheet and bake for 10 minutes. Turn and bake an additional 10 to 15
  minutes, or until light brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 35-40.
  
  VARIATIONS: Put thin slices of banana or other fruit on top of some
  of the rectangles or dough pieces left over from cutting. They may
  take an extra 4 to 5 minutes to bake. These afterthoughts have a
  tendency to disappear first.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Malted Milk Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 45 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Instant malted milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Vegetable shortening
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 c  Water
 
  "The malt in these dessert crackers will remind you of the
  old-fashioned soda shop. Served alone or with a hot cup of coffee,
  they are a delightful alternative to cookies. 325~F. 10 to 12 minutes
  Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Mix the flours, malted milk, and salt together in a large bowl or in
  the food processor. Add the vanilla extract and mix well. Cut in the
  shortening until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Slowly blend in
  enough of the water to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. The dough should be soft, but not sticky. For easier
  rolling, wrap the dough in wax paper and chill 1/2 hour.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a well-floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to between 1/16 and 1/8 inch thick.
  With a sharp knife or cookie cutter, cut the dough into 2-inch
  squares or circles.
  
  Place the circles on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
  sheet an prick each one in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a fork.
  Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until light brown, turning over once
  during baking. Allow to cool on a rack. Yield: 40-45.
  
  VARIATION: For a unique flavor, add 2 Tablespoons carob flour (St.
  John's bread) to the dry ingredients. Lower the oven temperature to
  300~F. to prevent scorching. Cooking time will be increased by a few
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley Chips
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 55 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Barley flour
    1/2 c  Rolled barley (barley
           Flakes)
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  "Very few people really know the taste of barley. Rolled barley looks
  like oatmeal, but has a slightly sharper taste and less nutty flavor.
  These sweet barley crackers have a tender texture. Try them with just
  a cold glass of milk. 325~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the oven to
  325~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, stir together the flours,
  barley, sugar, and salt.
  
  Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Add enough
  of the milk to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive
  ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 to 1/4 inch. Cut into 2-inch
  circles or squares and place on a lightly greased or parchment-lined
  baking sheet. Prick each cracker in 2 or 3 places with the tines of a
  fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until medium brown. Cool on a wire rack.
  Yield: 45-55.
  
  VARIATIONS: For a richer cracker, substitute 2 Tablespoons barley malt
  syrup for the sugar and reduce the amount of milk slightly.
  
  This recipe can be made with oatmeal (rolled oats) and oat flour for a
  distinctive oat flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vanilla Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 70 servings
 
      3 c  All-purpose flour or pastry
           Flour
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 pt (1 cup) heavy (whipping)
           Cream
      3 tb Honey
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  "These irresistible Vanilla Crackers are flaky and delicate. They are
  a rich, but not heavy, conclusion to a light lunch. Or try dunking
  them like donuts in coffee or hot chocolate. 300~F. 15 to 20 minutes
  Preheat the oven to 300~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, cut the butter into the
  flour until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  
  In a separate bowl, mix the cream, honey, and vanilla extract. Add
  this liquid mixture slowly to the flour mixture and blend to form a
  dough that will hold together in a cohesive ball. You may have to add
  a little extra cream or some milk.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll to 1/8 inch thick. With a sharp knife,
  cut into 1-1/2-inch squares. Place them on a lightly greased or
  parchment-lined baking sheet and bake for 15 to 20 minutes, turning
  over once. Do not allow the crackers to become darker than light
  brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 60-70.
  
  VARIATION: If you have access to soft drink syrups, try substituting
  root beer syrup for the vanilla extract.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Ovaltine Ovals
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 80 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 c  Ovaltine
      2 ts Cocoa
    1/4 ts Salt
      8 tb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  "These delicate dark wafers are light, but rich in chocolate taste.
  Not too sweet, they are the perfect complement for a dish of French
  vanilla ice cream. 325~F. 14 to 18 minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Combine the flour, Ovaltine, cocoa, and salt in a large bowl or in
  the food processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles
  coarse meal.
  
  Blend in the milk to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 inch thick. With a cookie
  cutter or the rim of a glass, cut into 2-inch circles. To make oval
  shapes, roll over each cracker gently along one axis with your
  rolling pin.
  
  Place the crackers on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
  sheet. Prick each one all the way through with the tines of a fork in
  2 or 3 places. Bake for 14 to 18 minutes. Cool on a rack. Yield:
  75-80.
  
  VARIATIONS: If you are a chocolate lover, double the amount of cocoa.
  For fancy occasions, dust the tops of these ovals with powdered
  (confectioner's) sugar before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Molasses Oat Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 90 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
    3/4 c  Rolled oats (oatmeal),
           Regular or quick cooking
           (not instant)
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Plus 2 Tablespoons water
    1/4 c  Molasses, light or dark
           Salt for the tops
 
  "The surprising combination of molasses, sour cream, and oats
  produces an intriguing blend of flavors in these hard crackers. Serve
  them in place of graham crackers. 350~F. 20 to 25 minutes Preheat the
  oven to 350~F.
  
  Stir together the flours, oats, salt, baking soda, and pepper in the
  food processor or in a large bowl. Mix well.
  
  In a separate bowl, combine the sour cream, water, and molasses. Mix
  well. Add to the dry ingredients and blend to form a dough that will
  hold together in a cohesive ball. The dough will be very sticky.
  
  Divide into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a well-floured surface or
  pastry cloth, roll out to approximately 1/4 inch thick. Sprinkle
  lightly and evenly with salt and gently roll over the top with the
  rolling pin to press the salt in.
  
  With a sharp knife, cut the dough into 2-inch squares and place them
  on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet. Prick each
  square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the edges have turned golden
  brown. Yield: 80-90.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 45 servings
 
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Oat flour
    1/4 c  Sugar
      4 tb (1/2 stick) butter or
           Margarine, softened
    1/3 c  Strong brewed coffee,
           Cooled
 
  "The pronounced flavor of freshly brewed coffee makes these crackers
  an extraordinary treat. They are versatile enough for a champagne
  brunch or a light dessert after a satisfying meal. 325~F. 12 to 18
  minutes Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  Mix the flours and sugar together in a large bowl or in the food
  processor. Cut in the butter until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  
  Add the coffee and blend to form a dough that will hold together in a
  cohesive ball. Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On
  a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll out to 1/8 inch thick. With a
  sharp knife or cookie cutter, cut into 2-inch shapes.
  
  Place the crackers on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
  sheet. Prick each one all the way through in 2 or 3 places with the
  tines of a fork. Bake for 12 to 18 minutes, or until the crackers are
  medium brown. Cool on a rack. Yield: 40-45.
  
  VARIATIONS: If you like your coffee a little sweeter, lightly and
  evenly sprinkle the rolled dough with sugar and roll over it lightly
  with your rolling pin before cutting. For crunchiness, add 1/2 cup
  cracked wheat with the flour.
  
  Add 1 Tablespoon grated lemon zest to the flour. To prepare the zest,
  lightly grate the skin of a medium-sized lemon against the fine grate
  of a cheese grater. Use only the colored part. The underlying white
  portion is bitter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wine Tasting Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 tb Vegetable shortening
    2/3 c  Water
 
  "A tender, crisp cracker with a neutral flavor. These are excellent
  for cleansing the palate while tasting wines, and they are also the
  perfect foil for cheeses of all kinds. 350~F. 20 to 25 minutes
  Preheat the oven to 350~F.
  
  In the food processor or in a large bowl, mix the flour and baking
  soda. Cut in the shortening until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
  Slowly stir in enough of the water to form a dough that will hold
  together in a cohesive ball.
  
  Divide the dough into 2 equal portions for rolling. On a floured
  surface or pastry cloth, roll into a rectangle no thicker than 1/8
  inch thick. With a sharp knife, cut the dough into 2-inch squares.
  Place on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet. Prick
  each square 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, or until medium brown and crisp. Remove to
  a rack to cool. Yield: 50-60.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baby Teething Crackers
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 15 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/4 c  Corn meal
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      1    Egg, beaten
    2/3 c  Milk
 
  "A tasty and nutritious teething cracker, far superior to anything
  you will find for sale at the supermarket. These make thoughtful
  gifts for babies and their parents. For an alternative baby teething
  cracker, try the Zwieback recipe on page 139. 325~F. 60 to 70 minutes
  Preheat the oven to 325~F.
  
  In the food processor or in a large bowl, stir together the flour,
  corn meal, salt, and sugar. Add the egg and mix well. Blend in enough
  of the milk to form a dough that will hold together in a cohesive
  ball.
  
  On a floured surface or pastry cloth, roll into a rectangle about 3/8
  inch thick. With a sharp knife, cut the dough into 1-1/2- by 3-inch
  rectangles. Place them on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking
  sheet. Prick each cracker 2 or 3 times with the tines of a fork.
  
  Bake for 60 to 70 minutes, or until the crackers are thoroughly dry.
  Cool on a rack. These crackers should be hard. If necessary, put them
  back in the oven for a few extra minutes. Yield: 10-15.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Good Dog, Biscuits
 Categories: Cracker
      Yield: 24 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/2 c  Oatmeal
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
    1/4 c  Liver powder (available at
           Health food stores)
      2 tb Brewer's yeast powder
    1/4 c  Bone meal powder
      3 tb Powdered milk
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
      3 tb Wheat germ oil (you may
           Substitute bacon drippings
           Or vegetable oil)
    1/2 c  Water
 
  "Why not bake a batch of cracker treats for your dog? These biscuits
  seem to satisfy the discriminating canine palate. If you are wise,
  you'll make a double recipe. 325~F. 40 to 50 minutes Preheat the oven
  to 325~F.
  
  In a large bowl or in the food processor, combine the flour, oatmeal,
  cornmeal, liver powder, brewer's yeast, bone meal, and powdered milk.
  
  Stir in the eggs, oil, and water and mix thoroughly. The dough will
  be very stiff and dry.
  
  Remove the dough to a lightly floured surface or pastry cloth. Roll
  or pat it into a rectangle 1/4 to 1/2 inch thick. Cut into
  bone-shaped biscuits with a small knife, or use a bone-shaped cookie
  cutter. Re--roll the leftover scraps of dough and cut into shapes
  until all the dough is used.
  
  Place on a lightly greased or parchment-lined baking sheet and bake
  for 40 to 50 minutes until brown and dried through. Cool on a rack.
  Yield: About 12 large bones or 24 small ones.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Cheese Pinecone
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Crackers
           Pine sprigs for garnish
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Minced green onions
    1/2 lb Crumbled blue cheese
      2 c  Blanched toasted whole
           Almonds
      3 pk (8-oz ea) cream cheese
           Softened
      2    Jars (5-oz ea) pasteurized
           Process cheese spread
           W/pimento
 
  In a large bowl with mixer at medium speed, beat cream cheese, cheese
  spread with pimento and blue cheese until smooth. With spoon, stir in
  green onions and worcestershire sauce. Cover and refrigerate about
  one hour. On work surface, with hands, shape cheese mixture into
  shape of large pine cone. Arrange on wooden board. Beginning at
  narrow end of cone, carefully press almonds about 1/4 inch deep into
  cheese mixture in rows, making sure that pointed end of each almond
  extends at a slight angle. Continue pressing almonds into cheese
  mixture in rows, with rows slightly overlapping, until all cheese is
  covered. Garnish pinecone with pine sprigs. Serve with crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Anchovy Olive Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/2 c  Fine chopped stuffed
           Green olives
  1 1/2 tb Anchovy paste
    1/2 ts Grated onion
 
  Combine all ingredients; mix well. Chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Chili Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (14-oz) artichoke hearts
           Drained and chopped
      1 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 cn (4-oz) green chili peppers
           Chopped
      1 c  Mayonnaise
           Tortilla chips for dipping
 
  In a small mixing bowl combine artichokes, cheese, peppers and
  mayonnaise. Transfer mixture to an 8 inch round baking dish. Bake,
  uncovered, in a 350 degree oven for 20 minutes. Serve warm with
  tortilla chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Avocado Corn Salsa
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Fresh corn kernels
      1    Diced medium avocado
      1 md Tomato seeded and diced
    1/4    Jalapeno chile minced
    1/2    Minced small onion
      2 ts Lime juice
           Salt to taste
 
  Cook corn and drain. Put in glass bowl and add avocado, tomato,
  jalapeno, onion, lime juice and salt. TIP: Use fresh lime.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bagna Cauda (Bon'-Ya Cod'da)
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1    Stick (1/4 lb) butter
      5    Chopped fine garlic cloves
      6    Anchovy fillets chopped,
           Mashed
           Pepper
 
  Heat the oil and butter together in an earthenware pot over hot water
  or in a double boiler. In another pan cook the garlic in a bit of the
  oil until it is soft. Add the anchovy fillets, and cook until the
  fish dissolves into a paste, about 5 minutes. Add all to the pan of
  hot oil and butter. The hot dip is kept in the middle of the table.
  Celery, endive, cucumbers, green onions, Italian bread and cooked and
  cooled artichokes are dipped into it.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Low fat creamy cottage
           Cheese
      2 cn (about 1 lb each) kidney
           Beans drained
      1    Packet chili seasoning mix
           Or to taste

MMMMM--------------------------DIPPERS-------------------------------
           Raw vegetables or
           Tortilla chips
 
  Process cottage cheese, beans and seasoning mix in blender or food
  processor until fairly smooth. Serve with dippers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cincinnati Beer-Cheese Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Rolls (6-oz each) sharp
           Cheese softened
  1 1/2 oz Roquefort or blue cheese
      2 tb Margarine softened
      2 md Minced cloves garlic
      1 md Onion
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Tabasco
      1 c  Beer, heated and
           Slightly cooled
      1    Round loaf rye bread
 
  Mix cheese, margarine, onion, garlic, worcestershire and Tabasco with
  electric mixer, gradually add beer until good consistency for dipping
  bread chunks. Refrigerate. Make serving bowl by hollowing out center
  rye bread, leaving a 1" thick shell. Tear bread into chunks for
  dipping. Pour dip into the bread shell.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    8-oz pkg cream cheese
      2 cn Minced clams
      1 cn Drained clam juice
      1 ts Horseradish sauce
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions
      1 ts Worcestershire
           Sauce
 
  Heat thoroughly until cheese melts in crock pot or similar. Cook on
  low heat 3-4 hours. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn 8-oz minced clams
     50    Ritz crackers
    1/2    Stick margarine
      4 cl Garlic
           Liberal oregano
 
  Melt margarine in casserole dish in 350 degree oven. In bowl crush
  crackers. Add all ingredients including melted margarine. Mix
  together. Pour back in casserole dish. Sprinkle top with more
  oregano. Bake 30-35 minutes. Serve with Ritz crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Dip #3
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn Minced clams drained
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
           Undiluted
      3 oz Philadelphia cream cheese
           Onion juice
           Lawry's salt
 
  Place soft cream cheese in mixing bowl, slowly add cream of mushroom
  soup, beating, add salt and onion juice and clams, chill. Place on
  small square of toast or triscuits and pop in broiler briefly, or use
  as dip with cracker and chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocktail Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chili sauce
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Horseradish
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Grated onion
           Few drop Tabasco sauce
 
  Combine ingredients; add salt to taste. Chill. Serve with sea-food
  cocktails.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     24 oz Cream cheese
      1 lb Crab meat
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Mustard
      1 tb Powdered sugar
      1 ts Chopped onion
           Salt and pepper
    1/2 c  Sherry
 
  Combine all the ingredients except the sherry in the top half of a
  double broiler and heat until creamy. Add sherry to taste; half a cup
  is not too much, depending on whether it is to be served from a
  chafing dish or as a dip, when the mixture should be slightly thicker.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Crab meat
      2 pk (8-oz) cream cheese
      1    Bottle bennet chili sauce
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  Mix all ingredients except crab meat and chili sauce. Let stand
  overnight. Three hours before serving add crabmeat, then mold onto
  serving dish. Pour chili sauce over molded dip and refrigerate. Serve
  with crackers and triscuts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pk (8-oz) cream cheese
    1/4 c  Chopped onions
      1 cn Drained crushed pineapple
           Lawry's salt to taste
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Mix all ingredients together and place in bowl. Optional to sprinkle
  with 1/4 cup of chopped walnuts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Herb Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Light/reduced calorie
           Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Milk
      2 tb Finely chopped green onion
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Dried dillweed
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
 
  Combine all ingredients. Cover and chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Pepper Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (8-oz) soften cream cheese
    1/3 c  Fine chopped hot pepper
           Rings
      1 tb Liquid from hot pepper
           Rings
      2 tb Fine chopped onion
      2 tb Apple jelly or sweet
           Orange marmalade
      2 tb Fine chopped celery
      2 tb Fine chopped sweet red
           Pepper
           Hot pepper rings for
           Garnish
 
  In medium bowl, stir cream cheese until smooth. Stir in remaining
  ingredients. Cover; refrigerate until serving time, at least 2 hours.
  Garnish with red pepper rings. Serve with fresh vegetables or
  crackers for dipping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Horseradish Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (8 oz) softened cream
           Cheese
    1/4 c  Chopped green onions
    1/2 c  Kraft real mayonnaise
    1/3 c  Horseradish sauce
    1/4 c  Chopped green onions
      1 cn (6 3/4 oz) chunk ham,
           Drained flaked
 
  Combine cream cheese, mayonnaise and horseradish sauce, mixing until
  well blended. Stir in remaining ingredients. Chill. Serve with
  vegetable dippers or chips. VARIATIONS: Substitute 2 1/2 oz package
  smoked sliced beef, chopped, for ham. Substitute 4 crisply cooked
  bacon slices, crumbled, for ham.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Horseradish Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Cubed Velveeta cheese
           Spread
    1/3 c  Horseradish
    1/4 c  Milk
 
  Microwave process cheese spread, sauce and milk in 1 quart bowl on
  high 4-5 minutes or until process cheese spread is melted; stirring
  every 2 minutes. Serve with hot cooked chicken nuggets. Conventional:
  Combine process cheese spread, sauce and milk in sauce pan; stir over
  low heat until process cheese spread is melted. Serve as directed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Salsa Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Chunky salsa
      1    Envelope ranch salad
           Dressing mix
 
  Combine sour cream, salsa and salad dressing mix in a bowl; mix well.
  Cover and chill at least 1 hour. Serve with tortilla chips and raw
  vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Spinach Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    8-oz dairy sour cream
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Celery salt
    1/2 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts Onion salt
    1/4 c  Chopped green onions
      3 c  Frozen leaf spinach thawed
           And well drained
      1 cn (8-oz) water chestnuts
           Drained and finely chopped
      3 tb Chopped red bell
           Pepper if desired
 
  In medium bowl, combine sour cream, mayonnaise and seasonings. Stir in
  onions, spinach, water chestnuts, and red pepper. Cover; refrigerate
  to blend flavors. Serve with crisp vegetable dippers, assorted
  crackers or bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Delicious Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Cottage cheese
      2 tb Grated cheese
    1/4 ts Dill weed
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  In a bowl mash with a fork the cottage cheese and grated cheese. Add
  the dill weed, salt and worcestershire sauce. Mix well. Dip raw
  vegetables and eat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dill Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Dried parsley
      1 tb Minced dried onions
  1 1/2 tb Dill weed
    3/4 tb Seasoned salt
 
  You may use mayonnaise or salad dressing. Blend all ingredients
  together and chill before serving. May be made several days ahead.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Festive Cheese Ball
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (3-oz) softened cream
           Cheese
    1/2 lb Shredded process sharp
           American cheese (2 cups)
      2 tb Toasted sesame seeds
      3 tb Worcestershire
           Sauce
           Coarsely chopped pecans/
           Slivered almonds lightly
           Toasted
           Celery stalks
 
  Beat cheeses with electric mixer until creamy; blend in sesame seeds
  and worcestershire sauce. Shape into a ball; chill several hours.
  Roll ball in nuts just before serving. Serve with celery or crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Festive Herb Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Envelope Italian/garlic &
           Herb salad dressing mix
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 c  Lowfat plain yogurt
      2 tb Fine chopped green onion
 
  Combine ingredients in a bowl. Chill at least 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh and Smoked Salmon Pate
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Dairy sour cream
      3 c  Cold water
      1    Peeled and sliced thin
           Carrot
      1    Thin sliced small onion
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Thin lemon slices
      1    Fresh red chili pepper
      1 lb Fresh salmon fillets w/skin
      4    Shallots fine chopped
  1 1/2 tb + 1/2 cup (1 stick)
           Unsalted butter at room
           Temperature
      8 oz Smoked salmon diced
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 tb Fine chopped fresh dill
           Plus a few sprigs for
           Garnish
      6 tb Clarified butter
 
  Whish together heavy cream and sour cream in small bowl. Refrigerate.
  Combine cold water, carrot, onion, bay leaf, lemon slices and chili
  pepper in skillet large enough to hold the salmon fillets in one
  layer. Bring to boiling; continue to boil 10 minutes. Lower to
  simmer. Add salmon, skin side up. Simmer very gently over medium low
  heat until salmon is just cooked, about 10 minutes. Do not overcook.
  Remove salmon from poaching liquid; remove and discard skin. Cool
  completely. Saute shallots in the 1 1/2 tablespoon butter in small
  skillet over medium heat, stirring, until golden, about 5 minutes.
  Transfer to bowl of food processor. Add salmon, smoked salmon and
  cream mixture to food processor. Puree until smooth. With processor
  running, add remaining 1/2 cup butter, bit by bit, until smooth. Add
  lemon juice, salt and pepper. Fold in dill. Spoon mixture into 4 cup
  souffle dish or decorative serving dish. Smooth top with rubber
  spatula. Garnish with a few fresh dill sprigs, and a whole bay leaf
  and small sweet red pepper strips, if you wish. Pour clarified butter
  over top of pate to cover completely. Refrigerate 4 hours to set
  pate. NOTE: To clarify butter, melt 6 tablespoon butter in saucepan
  over medium heat. Remove from heat; skim off foam from top. With
  small ladle, spoon clear liquid butter into a dish, leaving milky
  solids behind. Discard milky solids. Use clear butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
      8 oz Sour cream
      8 oz Cream cheese
      8 oz Cool whip
      6 oz Chopped unsalted peanuts
    1/3 c  Kahlua
           Fresh fruit
 
  Combine all ingredients together except fruit. Refrigerate overnight.
  Use fresh fruit to dip.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 sm Pkg whipped marshmallow
           Creme
      1 pk (8-oz) cream cheese soften
           Vanilla to taste
 
  Blend marshmallow creme and cream cheese until smooth. Serve with
  fresh fruit.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garden Vegetable Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (8-oz) softened cream
           Cheese
    2/3 c  Chili sauce
      2 tb Minced onion
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Beat cream cheese until fluffy. Blend in chili sauce, minced onion,
  chili powder, salt and pepper. Cover; Chill. Serve with chilled fresh
  vegetables, tortilla or potato chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Mayonnaise chilled
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/4 c  Fine chopped onion
    1/4 c  Minced parsley
    1/4 c  Fine chopped canned
           Water chestnuts
      2 tb Fine chopped candied ginger
      2    Minced cloves garlic
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Combine mayonnaise and sour cream. Stir in remaining ingredients.
  Offer sesame seed crackers or potato chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Great Guacamole
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Avocado
     12 ts Spike or parsley
           Pinch Mexican seasoning
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
 
  Cut avocado in half, remove seed, and scoop out pulp, reserving seed.
  In small bowl, mash with fork, mixing in seasonings. Whip with fork
  until creamy. If you are not going to serve guacamole immediately,
  return seed to bowl to prevent discoloration, cover tightly, and
  refrigerate until ready to use. Serve as dip for natural corn chips,
  celery stalks, or other raw vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guacamole #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Avocados
      2    Diced fine tomatos
    1/2    Diced fine onion
      1 cn Diced fine Ortega chilis
    1/4 cn (7-oz) diced fine olives
      2    Bags corn/tortilla chips
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Halve and pit avocados; remove from skins with spoon. Mash with other
  ingredients, combining thoroughly. Chill 1-2 hours (if longer,
  avocado may start to discolor). Serve as dip with chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guacamole #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Avocado
      1 tb Finely grated onion
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Serrano chilies
      2 tb Lime juice
    1/2 ts Coriander seeds
    1/4 c  Cubed tomato
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Sliced red radish
      1 tb Coriander leaves
 
  Peel the avocado and discard the pit. Cut the avocado into cube for
  approximately 3 cups. Put the avocado into mixing bowl and cut it
  back and forth with a knife to make a coarse-fine mixture. Add the
  grated onion, garlic, minced chilies, chopped onion, lime juice,
  crushed coriander seeds, tomato, olive oil and radish. Add the
  coriander.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guacamole #3
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Moderately ripe avocados
           Peeled and pitted
      1    Minced clove garlic
      2 tb Minced white onion
      1    Green chili roasted peeled
           And minced
           Lemon juice
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Put the avocados, garlic, onion and green chili in a mixing bowl.
  Combine with a fork until well mixed but not necessarily free of
  lumps. Season to taste with lemon juice, salt and pepper. Cover and
  set aside or refrigerate until ready to use.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Cheese Rillette
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped cooked ham
      2    Chopped hard cooked eggs
      1 pk (3-oz) soften cream cheese
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      3    Mushrooms finely chopped
      1 tb Finely chopped onion
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  Place ham, eggs, cream cheese, mustard, mushrooms and onion in a food
  processor and process, using a pulsing action. Do not puree. Pack
  mixture in one or two small crocks and cover with a thin layer of
  melted butter. Refrigerate overnight. Serve with warm buttermilk
  biscuits.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hearty Party Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (11.5-oz) condensed bean
           With bacon soup
    1/4 c  Open pit special recipe
           Original flavor barbecue
           Sauce
      2 tb Minced green pepper
           If desired
      1 ts Minced onion
      1 ts Worcestershire
      2    Hotdogs sliced in 1/4 inch
           Pieces
 
  Mix all ingredients, chill. Serve on hearty crackers especially bacon
  wafers. May also be heated in a saucepan or crockpot, then served on
  crackers or eaten like soup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Holiday Ham & Chili Cheese Ball
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  (4-oz) shredded cheese
      1 pk (3-oz) cream cheese at room
           Temperature
      1 cn (4.5-oz) deviled ham
      2 tb Finely chopped scallions
      3 tb Chopped green chili
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
           Crackers
 
  In a small bowl, combine cheddar cheese, cream cheese, deviled ham,
  scallions and chilies; mix well. Shape mixture into a ball.  Roll in
  chopped nuts. Wrap in plastic wrap; chill. Remove from refrigerator to
  soften slightly before serving. Serve with crackers.  -----
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homus Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Garbanzo beans drained
      3 tb Tahini (crushed sesame
           Seeds)
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      1 cl Garlic
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Salt
           Water
 
  Place drained beans in blender. Add all other ingredients and then add
  enough water to almost cover beans. Blend until smooth. Pour into
  serving dish. Pour very thin layer of olive oil on top and sprinkle
  with parsley. Serve with pita bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot & Spicy Pepper & Apricot Chutney
 Categories: Appetizer, Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Sweet red peppers cored
           Seeded cut into 1/4 inch
           Dice (3 cups)
     12 oz Dried apricots cut into 1/4
           Inch dice
      1 c  Raisins
      1 lg Onion fine chopped
      5 cl Garlic thinly slivered
      1    3-inch piece fresh
           Gingerroot peeled and thin
           Slivered (3 cup)
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cumin seeds
  1 1/2 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
    3/4 ts Mustard seeds
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Red wine vinegar
 
  Combine sweet red peppers, apricots, raisins, onion, garlic,
  gingerroot, salt, red pepper flakes, cumin seeds, mustard seeds and
  sugar in large saucepan. Cook, uncovered, stirring occasionally, over
  medium heat until sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes. Add vinegar. Cook
  stirring often, until mixture is shiny and thick 30- 35 minutes.
  Cool. Cover and refrigerate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Artichoke Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (14-oz) artichoke hearts
           Drained and chopped
      1 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 c  Mayonnaise
 
  Mix all together in glass dish, microwave on high 3-4 minutes,
  stirring once. Serve with crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Clam Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 sm Chopped onion
    1/2    Chopped green pepper
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Catsup
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Bottled hot sauce
      1 cn Clams
    1/4 c  Grated cheddar cheese
           Crackers or tortilla chips
 
  Use 1 can drained chopped or minced clams. Melt butter in skillet;
  saute peppers and onions until tender, not browned. Add catsup,
  worcestershire sauce, hot sauce, and clams. Heat until boiling,
  stirring constantly. Add cheese and stir until melted. Serve warm at
  room temperature with tortilla chips or crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Mexican Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn #2.5 can (3.5 cup) pork and
           Beans in tomato sauce
           Sieved
    1/2 c  Shredded sharp process
           American cheese
      1 ts Garlic salt
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Salt
           Dash cayenne pepper
      2 ts Vinegar
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Liquid smoke
      4    Slices crisp cooked bacon
 
  Combine all ingredients except bacon; heat in chafing dish or double
  boiler. Top with crisp bacon, crumbled. Serve with corn chips or
  potato chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Mustard Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Light/reduced calorie
           Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Dijon style mustard
    1/4 c  Honey
 
  Combine all ingredients. Cover and chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Vegetable Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Mayonnaise/salad dressing
      1 pk (6-oz) Italian salad
           Dressing mix
    1/4 c  Fine chopped red pepper
    1/4 c  Fine chopped green pepper
 
  Mix together sour cream, salad dressing and Italian salad dressing.
  Mix until smooth. Stir in peppers. Chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Layered Bean Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 pk Taco seasoning
      1 cn (10.5 oz) bean dip or
           Refried beans
      2 md Mashed avocados
    1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Grated jack cheese
      4    Chopped green onions/
           Scallions
      1 cn (4.5-oz) chopped ripe olive
      3    Diced tomatos
      2    Bags tortilla chips
 
  Mix together sour cream, mayonnaise and taco seasoning. Set aside.
  Use a 9 or 10-inch pie pan or disposable aluminum pizza pan. Spread a
  layer of bean dip or refried beans on bottom of pan. Spread avocados
  over beans in an even layer. Spread sour cream mixture on top.
  Sprinkle on grated cheddar and grated jack cheese, followed by a
  layer of olives and a layer of tomatos. Refrigerate at least 1 hour
  before serving. Serve with bowls of tortilla chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melon Blue Cheese Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (4-oz) blue cheese
      1 pk (3-oz) cream cheese softened
      2 tb Milk
      2 tb Salad dressing
           Cantaloupe/honeydew balls
 
  Combine blue cheese, cream cheese, milk and salad dressing. Beat at
  low speed of electric mixer until light and fluffy. Skewer cantaloupe
  or honeydew balls with cocktail picks; swirl in blue cheese dip.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Cheese Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Velveeta cheese
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      6 oz Horseradish
      2    Drops Tabasco sauce
 
  Melt cheese and when HOT, add remaining ingredients; serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Layered Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (30 oz) refried beans
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Picante sauce
      2 c  Shredded cheese
      1 cn (4-oz) black olives
           Tortilla chips
 
  Spread beans in 9 x 13 inch baking dish. Combine sour cream and
  mayonnaise; spread over bean dip. Cover with picante sauce. Sprinkle
  with cheese and top with black olives. Bake uncovered at 350 degrees
  for 30 minutes. Serve with tortilla chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miami Salsa
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 md (12 oz) fresh ripe tomatos
    1/2    Seeded/coarse chopped
           Orange
      2 tb Sliced green onion
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
  1 1/2 ts Mince fresh/jarred
           Jalapeno pepper
    1/4 ts Grated orange peel
    1/4 ts Salt, optional
 
  Use tomatos at room temperature until fully ripe. Core tomatos, cut in
  halves crosswise; squeeze out and discard seeds and juice.  Chop
  tomatos, makes about 1 1/2 cups. In large bowl combine tomatos,
  orange, scallion, cilantro, jalapeno, orange peel and salt if
  desired. Use as a dip, in tacos, with hamburgers, fish, etc.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parma Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Salad dressing
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 tb Chopped chives
 
  Combine ingredients, mix well. Prepare dip ahead of time and chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepperoni Pizza Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (8-oz) softened cream cheese
    1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
      1 ts Crushed dry oregano
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Crushed red pepper
    1/2 c  Pizza sauce
    1/2 c  Chopped pepperoni
    1/4 c  Sliced green onion
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
           Sweet pepper strips,
           Broccoli florets
           Or crackers, optional
 
  In a small mixer bowl beat together cream cheese, sour cream, oregano,
  garlic powder, and (optional) red pepper. Spread evenly in a 9 or
  10-inch quiche dish or pie plate. Spread pizza sauce over the top.
  Sprinkle with pepperoni, green onion, and green pepper. Bake in a 350
  degree oven for 10 minutes. Top with cheese; bake 5 minutes more or
  till cheese is melted and mixture is heated through. Serve with sweet
  pepper strips, broccoli flowerets, or crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Rillette
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Leftover chopped roast pork
      1 ts Chopped parsley
    1/4 ts Grated nutmeg
    1/4 c  Chicken stock
    1/3 c  Mined onion
    1/4 ts Powdered mace
           Salt and pepper
    1/8 lb Butter softened optional
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  Put roast pork, parsley, nutmeg, stock, onion, mace, salt and pepper
  in a heavy pot, cover and simmer for 10-15 minutes to heat through
  and blend flavors. Pour contents of the pot into the bowl of your
  food processor and process - using a pulsing action. Do not puree. If
  the pork roast had a fair amount of fat, the butter may not be
  necessary - use your own judgment. If butter seems needed because the
  pork is very lean, stir in the softened butter at this point. Pour
  into 3-4 small crocks. Refrigerate to cool. Melt butter and pour a
  thin layer over the top of rillette in each crock. Refrigerate until
  butter sets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Pepper Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cl Peeled garlic
    1/2    Jalapeno pepper seeded
           About 1 tablespoon
    1/3 c  Pecan pieces
      1 c  Drained sweet roasted or
           Pimento peppers
    1/3 c  Virgin olive oil
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Place garlic and jalapeno pepper in food processor or mill and puree.
  Add pecans, pimento peppers, olive oil and salt and process until
  mixture is smooth. Mix in Parmesan, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ribbon Loaf
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (3-oz) lime Jello
      1 pk (3-oz) raspberry Jello
  1 1/2 c  (15-oz jar) applesauce
     18    Double graham crackers
      1    Envelope dream whip dessert
           Topping mix
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      3 tb Confectioners sugar
    1/4 c  Toasted chopped blanched
           Almonds
 
  Combine each package of Jello with 3/4 cup applesauce; stir until well
  blended, about 1 1/2 minutes. Place 2 double crackers end to end on
  platter. Spread with 1/4 cup lime mixture. Top with 2 double crackers;
  spread with 1/4 cup raspberry mixture. Continue layers, alternating
  flavors and ending with crackers. Prepare dessert topping mix as
  directed on package, using 1/4 teaspoon almond extract instead of
  vanilla. Add confectioners sugar. Spread over sides and top of loaf.
  Sprinkle sides with almonds. Chill at least 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 md Ripe tomatos, peeled
           Cored, seeded and chopped
    1/2 c  Red chopped onion
      1 cl Minced garlic
    1/2    Fresh/canned jalapeno
           Pepper, cored, seeded and
           Fine chopped
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Lime juice
      2 ts Olive oil
    1/4 ts Hot red pepper sauce
 
  In a medium bowl mix tomatos, onion, garlic and jalapeno pepper. Stir
  in vinegar, lime juice, olive oil and red pepper sauce. Cover and
  chill in the refrigerator at least 2 hours before serving. Store
  tightly covered in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 qt Fresh tomatos
      6 md Onions
      5    Jalapeno peppers
      2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  White vinegar
 
  Skin and quarter tomatoes, then put through grinder. Chop onions and
  peppers. Put tomatoes, onion, peppers, salt and vinegar in a pot and
  simmer 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa #3
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Pasteurized process cheese
           Spread cubed
      1    (8-oz) jar salsa OR
      1 cn (10-oz) diced tomatos and
           Green chilies drained
      2 tb Chopped cilantro opt
 
  Microwave process cheese spread and salsa or tomatos and green
  chilies in 1 1/2 quart bowl on high 5 minutes or until thoroughly
  heated, stirring after 3 minutes. Mix in cilantro. Serve hot with
  tortilla chips. CONVENTIONAL: Stir process cheese and salsa or
  tomatos and green chilies over low heat until smooth. Mix in cilantro.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sherry Tuna Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Softened cream cheese
    1/3 c  Sherry/light cream
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 cn (7-oz) drained tuna
    1/4 c  Regular wheat germ
      1 tb Mayonnaise
      2 tb Sweet pickles
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Onion flakes
 
  Combine cheese, sherry and mayonnaise in small bowl. Beat until
  smooth. Add remaining ingredients. Mix well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snappy Spinach Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pouch dry vegetable/onion
           Soup
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Plain yogurt
    1/3 c  Chopped green onions
      1 pk (10-oz) frozen chopped
           Spinach thawed and well
           Drained
 
  In a blow, blend the oup, sour cream, plain yogurt, green onion and
  spinach. Cover; refrigerate at least 2 hours. NOTE: For cheese add
  1/3 cup grated parmesan cheese and increase sour cream to 1 1/2 cups
  NOTE: For smoky spinach dip add 1 Tb imitation bacon flavored bits
  and increase sour cream to 1 1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spa-Camole
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Lowfat cottage cheese
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley leaves
    1/2 c  Cilantro leaves
      1 cn (4-oz) chopped green chilies
    1/3 c  Chopped seeded tomato
      2 tb Chopped green pepper
      1 cl Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Cumin
 
  Place parsley and cilantro in food processor work bowl; process with
  steel blades until chopped. Add cottage cheese; process until smooth.
  Add combined remaining ingredients; stir. Serve with pita or flour
  tortilla wedges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Dip #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sour cream
      4 sm Green onion chopped
      1 pk Frozen spinach finely
           Chopped and drained
      1 sm Can water chestnuts fine
           Chopped
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 pk Knorrs soup mix
      1    Round loaf unsliced
           Pumpernickle bread
 
  Combine above ingredients and chill. Tear out center of bread for dip
  pieces. Fill center with dip and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Dip #3
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (10-oz) frozen chopped
           Spinach thawed and drained
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Reduced calorie mayonnaise
      1 pk (1.4-oz) vegetable soup and
           Recipe mix
      1 cn (8-oz) water chestnuts
           Drained and chopped opt.
      3    Chopped green onions
 
  Stir all ingredients until well mixed. Cover; chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three Tomato Salsa
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
    1/2 sm Red onion peeled and diced
      2 tb White wine
      8    Tomatillos husked cored and
           Cut in one-quarter inch
           Dice
      4    Tomatos seeded and cut in
           One quarter inch dice
      1 pt Yellow cherry tomatos
           Seeded and cut in one
           Quarter inch dice
           Salt to taste
           Coarsely ground white
           Pepper
      6    Sprigs minced fresh basil
 
  Heat oil in medium skillet over medium high heat. Add the onion and
  cook 1-2 minutes. Add the wine and tomatillos; stir to combine.
  Remove from heat. Add the red and yellow tomatos to the skillet while
  the mixture is still warm but do not heat or cook. Season to taste
  with salt and pepper and stir in the basil. Let the relish stand 15-
  20 minutes so the flavors meld or refrigerate up to two hours before
  using.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tostado Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (8 oz) refried beans
      1 pk Taco seasoning
      1 c  Sour cream
      2    Mashed avocados
      1    Chopped onion
      1 cn Sliced black olives
      1 cn Chopped green chilies
      1 c  Montery jack cheese
      1 c  Cheddar cheese
      2    Chopped tomatos
           Alfalfa sprouts
 
  There are 9 layers to this dip so use a large dip platter or shallow
  bowl and spread in order given. Refried beans mixed with taco
  seasoning mix. Sour cream mixed with mashed avocados. Chopped onion.
  Sliced black olives. Chopped and drained green chilies. Grated
  montery jack cheese. Grated cheddar cheese. Chopped tomatos. Alfalfa
  sprouts to cover top. Surround or serve with round tostado chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey and Ham Rillette
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Cooked chopped ham
      1 lb Leftover chopped cooked
           Turkey
    1/4 lb Soft butter
    1/2 ts Fresh ground pepper
    1/2 ts Tarragon
 
  2-3     tb melted butter
  
  Put ham and turkey into the bowl of your food processor and process
  using a pulsing action. Do not puree. Stir in softened butter, pepper
  and tarragon. Put into 3-4 small crocks. Refrigerate for an hour
  before covering with a thin layer of melted butter. Store in
  refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Warm Vegetable Seafood Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Envelope dried vegetable
           Soup mix
      1    Container (15-oz) ricotta
           Cheese
      1 pk (3-oz) softened cream
           Cheese
      6 oz Imitation crab meat/cooked
           Shrimp/frozen crab meat
           Thawed
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Assorted crackers/bread
           Sticks/pita bread/chips
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees. In 1 quart casserole, combine soup mix,
  cheeses, seafood and lemon juice. Bake 20 minutes or until heated
  through. Serve with dippers. MICROWAVE: In 1 quart microwave-safe
  casserole, combine soup mix, cheeses and lemon juice. Microwave,
  uncovered, at medium 3 minutes, stirring twice. Stir in crabmeat.
  Microwave at medium for 3 minutes or until heated through, stirring
  once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Game Pate
 Categories: Spread, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb (2 cup) boneless skinless
           Raw rabbits/partridge/
           Pheasant/duck or other game
           Cut into 1/4 inch strips

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/8 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Allspice
      1 tb Finely minced green onions

MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Coganc
    1/2 c  Very finely minced onions
      2 tb Butter
    3/4 lb Lean pork and 3/4 lb lean
           Veal finely ground together
      2    Eggs lightly beaten
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 cl Garlic crushed
      1 lb Bacon blanched to remove
           Salt
      1    Bay leaf
 
  First, marinate the strips of game. In a non-reactive bowl, mix
  together the marinade ingredients, the cognac, salt and pepper,
  thyme, allspice and green onions. Add strips of game and marinate
  while preparing stuffing. For stuffing, cook onions slowly in the
  butter until tender. Scrape into large mixing bowl. Pour cognac into
  same skillet and boil until reduced by half, scraping bottom of
  skillet to loosen any pan drippings. Scrape into bowl with onions.
  Add pork and veal, beaten eggs, salt, pepper, allspice, thyme and
  garlic. Beat vigorously with wooden spoon until thoroughly blended.
  To assemble pate, line bottom and sides of laof pan with blanched
  bacon (to blanch plunge bacon into boiling water, remove immediately
  and drain briefly under cold running water), reserving a few strips
  for top of pate. Drain game strips, reserving marinade. Beat marinade
  into stuffing. Divide stuffing into three parts. Dip hands in cold
  water and arrange first third of the stuffing in bottom of loaf pan.
  COver with half the strips of game. Repeat layers, another third of
  stuffing and remaining half of game strips. SPread remaining thrid of
  stuffing on top. Place bay leaf on top and cover with remaining
  blanched bacon. COver top of pan with aluminum foil and set in larger
  pan of boiling water (water should come about halfway up the outside
  of loaf pan). Bake in oven preheated to 350 degrees for 1 1/2 hours.
  Remove loaf pan from water and place another loaf pan (preferably
  glass so it's heavy enough to weight down the pate) on top of
  foil-wrapped pate. Cool pate at room temperature several hours or
  overnight. Chill, still weighted. Serve in slices with crackers.NOTE:
  A "pinch" is about 1/8 ts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: World Series Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (16-oz) refried beans
      1 cn (4-oz) diced green chilies
      1    16-oz carton sour cream
           (mix with taco seasoning)
      1 pk Seasoning mix (mix with
           Sour cream)
      1    Chopped tomato
    1/2 c  Chopped greed/red onions
      1 c  Guacamole dip
      1 cn (4-oz) chopped black
           Olives
      1 c  Grated cheese
 
  In a shallow 12 inch bowl or plate, layer series of ingredients in the
  order listed. Place container of dip on large platter and surround
  with tortilla chips. Add picante sauce, salsa or taco sauce for
  garnish or zest.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Appetizer Ham Ball
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn (4.5-oz) deviled ham
      3 tb Chopped stuffed green
           Olives
      1 tb Prepared mustard
           Tabasco sauce to taste
      1 pk (3-oz) cream cheese
           Softened
      2 ts Milk
 
  Blend deviled ham, olives, mustard and tabasco. Form in ball on
  serving dish; chill/. Combine cream cheese and milk; frost ball with
  mixture. Chill; remove from refrigerator 15 minutes before serving.
  Trim with parsley. Pass assorted crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Cheese Walnut Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/3 c  Milk
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      4 oz Blue cheese crumbled
      1 pk (8-oz) softened cream
           Cheese
    1/2 c  Walnuts
 
  In blender, sprinkle unflavored gelatin over cold water; let stand 3-4
  minutes. Add boiling water and process at low speed until gelatin is
  completely dissolved, about 2 minutes. Add sour cream, milk, lemon
  juice, worcestershire sauce and cheeses; process at high speed until
  blended. Add walnuts and process at low speed 5 seconds. Pour into 7
  1/2 x 3 3/4 x 2 1/4 inch loaf pan or 4 cup bowl; chill until firm.
  Unmold onto lettuce-lined platter and serve, if desired with
  crackers, party=size breads and fruits.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braunschweiger Ball
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Braunschweiger
    1/2 ts Basil leaves
      8 oz Cream cheese
    3/4 ts Garlic powder
      1 cl Garlic OR
    3/4 ts Garlic powder
      1 tb Salad dressing/mayonnaise
      3 ts Dry minced onion
 
  Blend meat, basil, garlic and onion. Form into ball. Combine cream
  cheese, salad dressing and garlic powder. Spread over top of
  braunschweiger ball. Chill at least 24 hours before serving. Optional
  garnish with parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braunschweiger Glace
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      1 c  Condensed sonsomme
    1/2 lb (1 cup) braunschweiger
      3 tb Mayonnaise
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Minced onion
 
  Soften gelatin in cold water. Heat consomme to boiling. Remove from
  heat; add gelatin and stir until dissolved. Pour into 2 cup mold;
  chill until firm. Blend remaining ingredients. Spoon out center of
  jellied consomme, leaving 1/2 inch on all sides. Fill center with
  meat mixture. Heat the spooned out consomme till melted; pour over
  braunschweiger. Chill firm. Unmold. Trim with slices of hard cooked
  egg. Use crackers as spreaders.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese and Beef Ball
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pk (8-oz) cream cheese
      1 pk (10-oz) sharp cheddar
           Cheese
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 pk (3-oz) chopped shredded
           Dried beef
    1/2 c  Chopped pimento olives
 
  Combine all of the above and mix well. Shape into a ring or ball.
  Serve with crackers or party breads. This can be made into two balls
  rolled in pecans and be used at a later date.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Ball #1
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/4 lb Sharp cheddar cheese
           Spread
      1 ts Minced onion
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
      1 cn (4-oz) deviled ham
 
  Mix together at room temperature. Roll into ball and roll in chopped
  nuts, parsley, or chipped beef. Pack cheese down in waxed paper lined
  bowl. Chill well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Ball #2
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Jar old English Kraft
      1    Jar roka blue cheese
     16 oz Cream cheese
      3    Garlic cloves OR
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1 sm Grated onion
      6 ts Wine vinegar
 
  Mix with mixer. Shape into balls and refrigerate. This may be frozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Roll
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Jar (5-oz) cheese spread
      1    Jar (5-oz) blue cheese
           Spread
      1 pk (8-oz) soften cream cheese
  1 1/2 tb Wine vinegar
           Garlic powder to taste
           Paprika
           Minced fresh/dried parsley
           To garnish
 
  Thoroughly combine the cheese spreads with the cream cheese, vinegar
  and garlic powder. On a large sheet of wax paper, sprinkle paprika.
  Plop cheese mixture in center and use paper to roll cheese into log
  or mound or any shape you like. Sprinkle with parsley and shape
  again. Chill or serve immediately with crackers and pretzels.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocktail Dressing
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Catsup
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 ts Horseradish
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2    Drop tabasco sauce
 
  Combine ingredients; chill thoroughly. Serve with sea-food cocktails.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Confetti
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  (4-oz) shredded monterey
           Jack cheese
    1/4 c  Salad dressing/mayonnaise
      2 tb Chopped carrot
      1 tb Chopped green onion
      1 tb Chopped red pepper
      6    Pre sliced frozen plain
           Toasted mini-bagels
 
  Combine all ingredinets except mini-bagels; mix well. Spread on
  mini-bagels; broil until cheese is melted.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Ball
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (8-oz) cream cheese
           Softened
      1 tb Milk
      1 pk Corned/chipped beef cut in
           Strips with scissors
           Chopped ripe/green olives
           As desired
           Salt and pepper
 
  Add the milk to the softened cream cheese first. Blend together. Roll
  in ground buts for ball. Cool and spread on crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Delicious Party Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Softened light cream cheese
      1 cn (4.25-oz) deviled ham
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
           Dash cayenne pepper
    1/3 c  Finely chopped green bell
           Pepper
    1/3 c  Finely chopped red bell
           Pepper
 
  In small mixing bowl, combine cream cheese, deviled ham,
  worcestershire sauce and cayenne pepper. Beat on medium speed until
  smooth. Stir in green and red peppers. Cover and refrigerate 1 hour
  or until ready to serve. Serve with crackers or vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Style Herbed Cheese
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (8-oz) softened cream
           Cheese
      2 tb Milk
    1/4 ts Crushed dried
           Oregano leaves
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Onion powder
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Combine all ingredients, mix until well blended. Chill. Serve with
  crusty french bread or crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Liver Paste
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Stick oleo
      2 lb Chicken liver
      1 c  Dry minced onion flakes
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
           Salt and pepper to taste
      4    Hard boiled eggs
 
  Melt butter in skillet, add chicken livers and all ingredients except
  hard cooked eggs. Simmer about 1 hour. Put in blender, add eggs and
  water to the desired consistency. Let cool, cover and refrigerate. Do
  not drain before putting in blender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Liver Pate
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken livers thoroughly
           Rinsed trimmed of fat and
           Membrane and patted dry
      1    Stick butter/margarine
      1 pk Dry onion soup mix
    1/2 c  Water
      1 pk (8-oz) soften cream cheese
           Garlic powder to taste
           Wine vinegar to taste
 
  Saute livers in butter and add soup mix. Process in a blender or food
  processor with as much of the water as you need to create the desired
  consistency. Remove mixture from blender and beat in cream cheese. Add
  garlic powder to taste and a touch of vinegar. Chill and serve with
  crackers or pretzels or apple slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Antipasto
 Categories: Appetizer, Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    8 oz bottle Seven Seas Viva
           Italian dressing
      1 cn (14 oz) artichoke hearts,
           Drained, cut into quarters
    1/2 lb 3" pepperoni slices
      1 c  Cherry tomato halves
    1/2 c  Pitted ripe olives
      8    Pepperoncini peppers
      1 pk (8 oz) monterey jack cheese
           Cut into sticks
           Lettuce leaves
 
  Pour dressing over artichoke hearts, pepperoni tomatos, olives and
  peppers. Cover, marinate in refrigerator overnight. Drain. Arrange
  pepperoni, vegetable and cheese on lettuce-covered platter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutted Cheese Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Shredded sharp cheddar
           Cheese
    1/2 c  Low fat cottage cheese
      2 tb Port wine
      1 tb Parsley chopped fine
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
      3 tb Chopped walnuts
 
  In small bowl, with electric mixer at high, beat first 6 ingredients.
  FOld in nuts; chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Party Cheese Ball
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Philidelphia cream cheese
      8 oz Cracker Barrel cheese
      1    Jar pimento cheese
      1    Chopped onion
      1    Chopped green pepper
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Lemon juice/real lemon
      1 pk Ground pecans/almonds/etc
 
  Have cheese at room temperature. In a mixing bowl; shred cracker
  barrel cheese. Mix with pastry blender. Mix jar of pimento cheese
  with blender. Add other ingredients and mix into bowl. Form into a
  ball and put on foil covered dish - cover ball also. Refrigerate for
  3-4 hours. Roll in ground nuts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pate Maison
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Fine minced onion
      8 tb Lard
      8 oz Chicken liver
      2 c  White cooked chicken
      6 tb Unsalted butter room
           Temperature
      4 tb Lard
      4 tb Cognac
      1 ts Cinnamon
           Pinch crushed bay leaf
           Pinch dried thyme
           Pinch mace
           Pinch Rosemary
           Pinch basil
           Pinch cloves
           Pinch nutmeg
           Pinch allspice
           Pinch white pepper
           Pinch spanish paprika
           Pinch salt
 
  Saute onion in 8 Tb lard until very limp. Add livers, cook until done;
  cool. Put liver mixture, chicken, butter, 4 Tb lard, cognac, and
  spices in food processor and blend until smooth.  Correct seasoning,
  if necessary, by addding more cognac or spice.  Serve on crusty
  french bread topped with pickles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppered Cheese
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  (8-oz) grated monterey jack
           Cheese
      1 pk (8-oz) cream cheese at room
           Temperature
      1 ts Fine herbs
      1 ts Minced chives
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 cl Garlic crushed or garlic
           Powder to equal one clove
      3 tb Any flavored seasoned
           Pepper such as lemon
           And onion pepper
 
  Mix cheese, fine herbs, chives, worcestershire sauce and garlic.
  Scrape bowl with spatula. With hands, shape cheese into a wheel. On
  wax paper, roll the shaped cheese into the seasoned pepper. Pepper
  should cover entire wheel of cheese. Place on dish, cover and chill
  for at least one hour. If desired, to serve make indentations around
  the top of the wheel and insert crackers standing on edge. Serve with
  additional crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spam Meat Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Spam
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Prepared mustard
    1/4 lb Cubed Velveeta cheese
      2 tb Melted butter
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Catsup
      1 ts Minced onion
           Potato roll buns
 
  Spread the above ingredients on potato roll buns. Cover tightly with
  foil and heat at 350 degrees.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Waldorf Salad Spread
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Cored red apple
      1 pk (8-oz) neutchatel cheese
    1/2 c  Low fat cottage cheese
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Chopped celery
      3 tb Chopped walnuts
      1 tb Dark raisins
      1 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
           Pinch ground nutmeg
           Red/green seedless grapes
           And assorted crackers opt.
 
  Chop half of apple; slice half. In small bowl, blend cheeses and
  juice. Stir in chopped apple and next 6 ingredients. Spoon into
  serving bowl. Serve with apple slices, grapes and crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Stuffed Dates with Bacon
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (4-oz) blanched whole
           Almonds
      1 lb Pitted dates
  1 1/2 lb Lean thinly sliced bacon
           Cut into thirds
 
  Put an almond in each date. Wrap a piece of bacon around each stuffed
  date and secure with a toothpick. Line cookie sheet with aluminum
  foil. Place dates on foil and bake in preheated 400 degree oven for
  12-15 minutes or until bacon is crisp. Remove to rack or paper towel;
  drain. Serve warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Sweet Red & Yellow Pepper Wedges
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 md Size sweet red peppers
      2 md Size sweet yellow pepper
      1 md Size onion fine chopped
      1 cn (28-oz) crushed tomatos
           Well drained
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 c  + 2 Tb olive oil
      3 tb Pine nuts
      4 cl Garlic fine chopped
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4    C fresh bread crumbs
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Lightly oil 13 x 9 inch baking pan. Trim
  tops off peppers; discard stems and finele chop tops. CUt each pepper
  lengthwise into sixths. Place wedges, cut side up, in oiled pan; set
  aside. Combine pepper tops, onion, tomatos, parsley, the 1/ 4 cup
  olive oil, pine nuts, garlic, salt and pepper in medium size bowl.
  Spoon equal amounts of mixture into each of the pepper wedges. Bake
  wedges in preheated oven at 375 degrees for 25-30 minutes or until
  just tender. Sprinkle bread crumbs and remaining 2 Tb oil over all.
  Bake 10 minutes longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bar-B-Q Wing Dings
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken wings
      3 tb Brown sugar
      2    Drops ofworcestershire
           Sauce
      4 c  Ketchup
      1    Onion
 
  Cut off the small piece of the chicken wing and the 2 bone part so
  you have only the meaty part. Mix the ketchup, onion cut up and brown
  sugar and sauce together. Dip your wing ding in the sauce. Put on
  cookie sheet. Bake at 350 degrees for about 1 1/2 hour. If you have
  extra sauce, cook in saucepan until thick.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer - Cheese Bits
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Bisquick baking mix
    1/2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
      2 tb Melted butter/ margarine
    1/2 c  Beer
           Sesame/poppy seeds
 
  Heat oven to 450 degrees. Mix baking mix, cheese and beer until soft
  dough forms; beat vigorously; 20 strokes. Gently smooth dough into
  ball on floured cloth board. Knead 5 times. Roll dough into
  rectangle, 16 x 10 inches. Cut into 2-inch squares, cut squares
  diagonally into halves. Spread with melted margarine/butter; sprinkle
  with sesame seeds. Separate and place on ungreased cookie sheets.
  BAke until brown, about 8 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butterscotch Nibbles
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk 12-oz (2 cup) butterscotch
           Flavored morsels
      1 c  Peanut butter
      8 c  Your favorite chex brand
           Cereals
      6 oz (1 cup) milk chocolate
           Morsels
 
  In large saucepan over low heat, melt butterscotch morsels and peanut
  butter, stirring frequently. Stir in cereal until pieces are coated.
  Stir in chocolate morsels just until combined but not melted. Spread
  on waxed paper-lined tray. Chill 30 minutes or until coating is set.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese and Pastry Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Muenster cheese grated
      1    Beaten egg
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Gralic salt
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Melted butter
    3/4 c  Chopped parsley
      1 pk Refrigerated crescent rolls
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Combine muenster, egg, pepper, garlic
  salt, salt, butter/margarine. Set aside. Roll out 1/4 paclage of the
  crescent rolls into a rectangle. Be sure to seam pieces together.
  Place half the cheese mixture in the center of the pastry and spread
  evenly, leaving about a 1/2 inch border all the way around the
  rectangle. Roll out another 1/4 of the package into a rectangle,
  again being sure to seam pieces together, and place on top of cheese
  mixture. Pinch the pastry layers together, fluting decoratively as
  for pie crust if you wish. Cut a few slits in the top for steam to
  escape and bake for about 20 minutes. CUt in squares to serve, this
  is good warm or at room temperature. Repeat process with remaining
  crescent rolls and filling to make an additional borka.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chex and Chocolate Party Mix
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      9 c  Your faviorite chex brand
           Cereals
      2 c  Shredded coconut optional
      1 c  Peanuts
      1 c  Packed light brown sugar
    1/2 c  (1 stick) butter
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 pk (12-oz) semi-sweet
           Chocolate morsels
  1 1/2 c  Raisins
 
  Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Combine cereal, coconut and peanuts in
  large, small roasting pan. In small saucepan over medium heat, heat
  brown sugar, butter and corn syrup to boiling, stirring. Without
  stirring, boil 5 minutes. Stir in vanilla and baking soda. Pour over
  cereal mixture, stir until evenly coated. Bake 1 hour, stirring every
  15 minutes. Cool, stirring frequently. Stir in morsels and raisins.
  Store in airtight container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Croquettes
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      2 tb Flour
  1 1/4 c  Mixed milk and chicken
           Stock
      2 c  Ground cooked chicken
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1    Beaten egg
      2 tb Dry bread crumbs
           Oil for frying
 
  Melt the butter in a saucepan and stir in the flour. Gradually stir
  in the liquid and cook, stirring, until the sauce is thick and
  smooth. Stir in the minced chicken and season well. Continue cooking
  for about 1 minute, on a low heat, until the mixture is firm enough
  to hold together in a mass. Remove from the heat and allow to cool
  slightly, then, with floured hands, form the mixture into little
  sausage shapes. Brush these with beaten egg and coat with bread
  crumbs. Shallow fry in hot oil until golden brown. Servw hot or cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Nachos
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    (8-oz) jar divided salsa
    1/4 c  Sour cream
  7 1/2 oz Tortilla chips
      1 cn (6 1/4-oz) Hormel chunk
           Chicken drained flaked
      1 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
 
  In small bowl, combine 3/4 cup salsa and sour cream. Spread tortilla
  chips on baking sheet. Layer salsa mixture, chicken, and cheese
  onchips. Broil 2 to 3 minutes, or until cheese melts. Spoon remaining
  salsa over cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Cheese Nachos
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Prepared chili mix
      1    (8-oz) jar pasteurized
           Process cheese spread
      1 pk (8-oz) tortilla chips
      2 c  Shredded lettuce
      1 c  Chopped tomatos
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  Microwave chili and process cheese spread on high 5 minutes or until
  thoroughly heated, stirring every 2 minutes. Layer half of chips,
  half of chili mixture, remaining chips and remaining chili mixture on
  large serving platter. Top with remaining ingredients.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Egg Rolls
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Water
      1 cl Mashed garlic
           Juice from 1/4 lemon
      1    Quartered roasting chicken
      2 lb Lean pork tenderloin
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Finely sliced celery stalk
      1 sm Head cabbage finely diced
      3    Finely diced large onions
      1 pk (8-oz) finely diced fresh
           Mushrooms
           Soy sauce to taste
           Salt and pepper
      1 lb Bean sprouts thoroughly
           Cleaned
           Egg roll wrappers
      1    Lightly beaten egg white
           Vegetable oil for frying

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      1 ts Dry mustard
      3 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Vinegar
      1 ts Brown sugar
 
  Mix together, soy sauce, water, garlic and lemon juice. Add the
  chicken and pork. Cover tightly and marinate overnight. Roast the
  chicken and the pork together in a 350 degree oven until done. The
  chicken takes about an hour. The pork takes about an hour and a half.
  When cool, cut into matchstick pieces. Set aside. In a wok, or
  dee-sided frying pan, warm the oil. Over medium heat, add the celery,
  cabbage, onions and mushrooms. Stir fry until celery and onions are
  tender. Add chicken and pork. Stir until heated through. Add soy
  sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Remove this mixture from heat. Stir
  in bean sprouts. When working with egg roll wrappers be sure to cover
  them with a damp cloth to prevent them from drying out. To fill each
  roll, mound about 2 heaping Tb of filling just below the center of
  the egg roll. Fold bottom corner up over filling to cover, then fold
  in the two outside corners. Roll closed, sealing shut with a bit of
  egg white. Put oil in a wok or large pan to a depth of about 2 inches
  ~ deep enough to cover the egg rolls.  Over medium-high heat, warm
  the oil and carefully add the egg rolls, one at a time. Deep fry
  about 2-3 minutes, until golden brown on both sides, turning once.
  May be kept warm in 200 degree oven until serving time. Serve with
  dipping sauce. DIPPING SAUCE: Combine soy sauce, mustard, garlic
  powder, vinegar and brown sugar. NOTE: Egg rolls may be frozen after
  frying and cooled. Reheat in oven to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocktail Wieners
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Prepared mustard
      1 c  Currant jelly
      1 lb (8-10) frankfurters/vienna
           Sausages or cocktail
           Wieners
 
  Mix mustard and currant jelly in chafing dish or double boiler.
  Diagonally slice frankfurters in bite size pieces. Add to sauce and
  heat through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Meat Bacon Rolls
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Tomato juice
      1    Egg well beaten
      1 c  Crab meat drained and
           Flaked
    1/2 c  Dry fine bread crumbs
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Dash pepper
      9    Slices bacon cut in half
 
  Mix tomato juice and egg. Add crab meat, crumbs, parsley, lemon juice
  and seasonings; mix thoroughly. Roll into 18 fingers, about 2 inches
  long. Wrap each roll with 1/2 slice bacon; fasten with toothpick.
  Broil 5 inches from heat about 10 minutes, turning often to brown
  evenly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Chicken Triangles #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Phyllo dough thaw if
           Frozen
      2    Whole chicken breasts
           Skinned and bonned
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Minced onion
  2 1/2 tb Flour
      1 ts Curry powder to taste
      1 c  Light cream
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped walnut
    1/2 lb Melted butter/margarine
 
  Bake chicken breasts, wrapped in buttered aluminum foil at 375
  degrees for 45 minutes. Remove from from oven, unwrap and cool. Cut
  meast into small cubes; set aside. Melt butter in medium saucepan;
  add onion and cook 1 minute. Add flour and curry powder and cook over
  low heat 2 minutes, stirring constantly, until mixture is thick and
  smooth. Season with salt. Stir in chicken and walnuts. Remove from
  heat and let cool completely. To assemble; Place one sheet of phyllo
  on flat work surface. Cover remaining dough with damp towel and
  plastic wrap to prevent drying out. Brush with melted butter; top
  with two more sheets phyllo, buttering each. Cut sheet in half
  lengthwise; then cut each half crosswise into six equal parts. Spoon
  a heaping ts of chicken filling onto the end of each of the strips
  and form a triangle by folding right-hand corner to opposite side, as
  you would a flag. Continue folding until strip is used.  Repeat whole
  process until all filling is used. Place triangles on greased baking
  sheet and brush lightly with melted butter. Triangles may be wrapped
  and refrigerated up to two days or frozen at this point. Bake at 400
  degrees until golden brown and puffed about 10 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Chicken Triangles #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  (4-oz) diced chicken
           Breast
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Curry powder
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
    1/3 c  Golden raisins
    1/4 c  Chopped fine green onion
    1/4 c  Toasted chopped almonds
     12    Sheets thawed phyllo dough
    1/2 c  Melted butter
           Chutney/hot mustard sauce
 
  In a medium skillet, cook chicken in butter until no longer pink.
  Stir in flour, salt and curry powder and cook 1 minute. Gradually add
  milk. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture comes to a boil and
  thickens. Remove from heat. Stir in raisins, onions and almonds. To
  assembler traingles, place 1 sheet of phyllo dough on a flat surface
  and brush lightly with melted butter. Top this with 2 more sheets,
  buttering each sheet. Using a rolling pizza cutter, cut phyllo sheets
  to form 18 x 4 inch strips. Keep unused phyllo covered with a piece
  of waxed paper and damp towel to prevent drying out. Spoon 1 Tb of
  filling onto short end of each strip. Fold one corner of strip
  diagonally over filling so short edge meets the long edge, forming a
  right triangle. Continue folding over at right triangles to end of
  strip, forming a triangular shape package.  Repeat process with
  remaining strips. Brush top of each triangle with butter. Place on
  baking sheet. Bake in preheated 375 degree oevn for 10-12 minutes,
  until golden brown. Serve with chutney or hot mustard sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dried Beef Log
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 pk (8-oz) cream cheese softened
    1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      1 tb Prepared horseradish
    1/3 c  Chopped stuffed olives
  2 1/2 oz Dried beef
 
  Blend together the cream cheese, parmesan cheese and horseradish.
  Stir in stuffed olives. On waxed paper, shape mixture in two 6 inch
  rolls, 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Wrap and chill several hours or
  overnight. Roll each log in finely snipped dried beef. Serve with
  crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Roulade
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 md Fine chopped onion
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 md Size sweet red pepper cored
           Seeded and cut into 1/2
           Inch dice
      1 pk (10-oz) frozen chopped
           Spinach thawed and squeezed
           Dry
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Pepper
    3/4 c  Ricotta cheese drained

MMMMM--------------------------ROULADE-------------------------------
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) unsalted
           Butter
    1/3 c  Unsifted all purpose
           Flour
  1 1/3 c  Warmed milk
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6    Separated eggs
  1 1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      1    Egg white
 
  FILLING: Saute onion in oil in large skillet, stirring often, until
  soft and golden, about 8 minutes. Add red pepper and cook 4 minutes
  longer. Add spinach, lemon rind, salt, sugar and pepper. Transfer to
  medium size bowl. Stir in ricotta cheese. Set aside. Preheat oven to
  400 degrees. Grease bottom of 15.5 x 10.5 inch jelly roll pan. Line
  bottom withw ax paper; grease and lightly flour paper, tapping out
  any excess flour. Set aside. ROULADE: Melt butter in heavy saucepan
  over low heat. Stir in flour. Cook, stirring, until mixture is smooth
  and lightly colored. Gradually whisk in warm milk. Cook, stirring,
  over medium heat until mixture is quite thick, 4-5 minutes. Stir in
  pepper. Remove from heat. Beat egg yolks, one at a time, into milk
  mixture. Stir in 3/4 cup of the parmesan cheese. Transfer mixture to
  large bowl. Beat the egg whites in a large bowl until stiff peaks
  form. Carefully fold into the milk mixture. Spoon into the prepared
  pan, smoothing the top with a spatula. Sprinkle evenly with the
  remaining 1/2 cup cheese. Bake roulade in preheated hot oven for 15
  minutes or until golden and cake tester inserted into center comes
  out clean. Carefully invert onto kitchen towel or wax paper. Remove
  the wax paper from the top of the roulade. Starting with a long side,
  roll up the roulade and towel together. Place the roll, seam-side
  down, on wire rack. Cool at room temperature 20 minutes. Unroll the
  roulade and remove the towel. Spread spinach filling down the length
  of the roulade, leaving a 2 inch border on one long side and a 1 inch
  border on each short end roll. Roll up, jelly-roll fashion, from the
  long side without a border. Wrap tightly with plastic wrap and
  refrigerate. Unwrap to serve chilled or at room temperature. Cut
  crosswise into slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Yucca with Feta Cheese Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pieces of yucca root
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil for frying
      2 tb Fine chopped hot chile
           Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Chopped onion rinsed in
           Boiling water
 
  Peel yucca down to white flesh and place in boiling water and boil
  for 20 minutes. Remove yucca and let cool. When cool, cut yucca into
  slices, being sure to remove the tough center fibers. Pan fry in 1/4
  cup vegetable oil until browned. The sauce can be prepared while the
  yucca is cooling. Mash feta cheese and egg yolks together using a
  fork. Mix in chile pepper and salt with beaters. Pour in the
  vegetable oil a little at a time while beating continuously. Add
  evaporated milk and lemon juice and beat well. Mix in onion. Serve as
  appetizer using the sauce for dipping or th yucca can be served as a
  side dish with the sauce poured over it. The onion can be place in a
  strainer and rinsed until tender in the boiling water from which the
  yucca was removed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Turkey Sausage Squares
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Beaten egg
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Dry mustard
      2 ts Ground coriander
      1 ts Ground allspice
    3/4 ts Pepper
      1 lg Fine chopped onion
      2 cl Garlic, minced/pressed
    1/2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
      2 lb Ground turkey
    3/4 lb Bulk pork sausage
    1/3 c  Apple jelly
    1/3 c  Chutney finely chopped
    1/3 c  Raisins
 
  In a large bowl, mix eggs, salt, mustard, coriander, allspice, pepper,
  onion and garlic; blend in bread crumbs, turkey and sausage. Press
  meat mixture into an ungreased 10 x 13 inch rimmed baking pan. Bake
  in a 425 degree oven for 20-30 minutes or until firm and browned at
  edges. Let cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes. Holding meat, tip pan
  to drain off fat. In a small pan over medium heat, melt jelly with
  chutney; spread over meat. Cut into 1 inch squares, top each with a
  raisin, and serve warm. If made ahead, cover lightly and refrigerate
  for up to 2 days; or freeze for up to a month. Reheat meat squares
  (thaw, if frozen), uncovered, in a 400 degree oven for about 8
  minutes or just until hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Cheese Roll-Ups
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (6-oz) honey ham slices
      1    Jar (5-oz) sharp
           Pasteurized process cheese
           Spread
      1 sm Green/red bell pepper
           Seeded and cut into 14
           Strips
           Sliced tomatos
 
  Cut each ham slice in half; spread cheese ebenl;y over each slice.
  Place a pepper strip on one end of each slice; roll-up. Place on
  serving platter with tomatos.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Holiday Appetizer Quiche
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Butter crackers crushed
    2/3 c  Butter flavored crisco
  1 1/2 c  All purpose flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Snipped fresh parsley
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 c  Half and half
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      5    Eggs
      2 c  Shredded swiss cheese
      1    Jar (4-oz) diced pimentos,
           Well drained
    3/4 c  Thin sliced green onions
           With tops
    2/3 c  Chopped ham, crumbled
           Sausage, diced pepperoni or
           Crumbled cooked bacon
 
  CRUST: Combine flour and cracker crumbs. Cut in crisco until mixture
  resembles coarse oatmeal. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup water, a Tb at a
  time. Toss with a fork until crumbs are completely moistened. Press
  mixture into bottom of ungreased 15x10x1-inch pan.  Prick crust with
  fork. FILLING: Sprinkle swiss cheese, ham, onions, parsley and
  pimentos evenly over crust. Beat eggs, cream, half anf half, salt and
  pepper. Pour over filled crust. Bake at 400 degrees in preheated oven
  for 25- 30 minutes or until set. Cool 5-10 minutes. Cut into 1
  1/2x2-inch pieces. Serve warm. NOTE: Crust may bubble during baking
  and need to be pricked with fork again.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Roasted Bridge Mix
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Honey
      2 tb Butter/margarine
      1 ts Ground cinnamon divided
      4 c  Mixed nuts with no peanuts
      2 tb Superfine sugar
 
  Combine honey, butter and 1/4 ts cinnamon in saucepan; bring mixture
  to boil and boil 2 minutes stirring constantly. Pour honey mixture
  over nuts and mix until nuts are coated. Spread on fold- lined cookie
  sheet or jelly roll pan. Bake at 325 degrees, 10-15 minutes, or until
  nuts are glazed and lightly browned. Do not allow nuts to burn. Cool
  20-30 minutes; remove from foil. Combine sugar and remaining
  cinnamon; toss with glazed nuts to coat. NOTE: Redskin peanuts may be
  substituted for the mixed nuts. Superfine or bar sugar may be made by
  processing granulated sugar in the blender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Mushroom Turnovers
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
      1 pk (8-oz) cream cheese soften
  1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 c  Butter/margarine softened

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 tb Butter/margarine softened
    1/2 lb Minced mushrooms
      1 lg Minced onion
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Thyme leaves
      2 tb Flour
      1    Beaten egg
 
  About 2 hourse before serving: DOUGH: In large bowl with mixer at
  medium speed, beat cream cheese, flour and butter or margarine until
  smooth; shape into two balls; wrap in plastic wrap or aluminum foil
  and refrigerate 1 hour. FILLING: In 10 inch skillet over medium heat,
  cook mushrooms and onion in butter or margarine until tender,
  stirrring occasionally. Stir in sour cream, salt, thyme and flour;
  set aside. On floured surface with floured rolling pin, roll each
  half of dough 1/8 inch thick. With floured 2 3/4-inch round cookie
  cutter, cut out as many circles as possible. Repeat. SCraps of dough
  may be gathered and rolled out again. Preheat oven to 450 degrees.
  Onto one half of each dough circle, place a ts of mushroom mixture.
  Brush edges of circles with some egg; fold dough over filling. With
  fork, firmly press edges together to seal; prick tops. Place
  turnovers on ungreased cookie sheet; brush with remaining egg. Bake
  12-14 minutes until golden.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Japanese Gyoza Pot Stickers
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Gyoza wrappers
  1 1/2 c  Cabbage
      4    Green onions chopped
      3    Dried mushrooms soaked in
           Warm water 15 minutes
           Drained and chopped
      2 ts Ginger root grated
    1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 tb Cooking wine
      1 tb Kikkoman soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame oil
    1/4 ts Black pepper
           Salad oil

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
           Kikkoman soy sauce
           Chili sesame oil which is
           Very very hot
 
  Chop cabbage fine, place in colander and pour boiling water over the
  cabbage. Cool to touch, then squeeze cabbage well to get the water
  out. In a bowl mix cabbage, chopped green onions, chopped mushrooms
  and grated ginger. Mix ground beef, wine, soy sauce, sesame oil and
  black pepper together with vegetables; mix well. Place a small amount
  of filling (about 1 ts) in center of gyoza wrapping and fold in half.
  Pleat edge to seal. If edges won't stick together, dampen the inside
  edge with a little water, then pleat. Put 2 Tb salad oil in heated
  skillet (on medium heat). Place gyozas in skillet, close together and
  fry until golden brown. Then, at edge of pan, pour in a little water,
  up to 1/4 of the depth of the pot-stickers. Cover, turn heat to low
  and simmer until water is gone. Serve with dipping sauce as
  appetizer, or with hot rice as entree. SAUCE: Mix soy sauce with
  chili sesame oil. Use a proportion of 10parts soy sauce to 1 part
  oil; if you use a 5 to 1 proportion it may be a little hot for most
  people. The authentic sauce is a 2 to 1 proportion.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lebanese Stuffed Grape Leaves
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Uncooked rice NOT instant
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
    3/4 ts Allspice
    3/4 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Melted butter
      2 lb Lean ground lamb
    100    Grape leaves
      1    Sliced fresh lemon
 
  Put the rice in a colander and rinse 3 times with cold water. Combine
  the salt, pepper, allspice and cinnamon and sprinkle over rice,
  stirring to mix well. Add butter and lamb to rice and mix well. Place
  grape leaves in a large bowl and cover with boiling water to soften.
  Remove and drain in colander. Cool. To stuff leaves, place a ts of
  the rice and meat mixture on each leaf. Beginning at the stem end,
  rool the leaf up over the filling, folding the sides of the leaf in,
  halfway toward the center, so the leaf is a nicely tucked, tight
  little package by the time you reach the tip. Repeat with remaining
  leaves and filling. Cover the bottom of a large pan with a few of the
  grape leaves and the lemon slices. In neat rows, arrange the stuffed
  grape leaves on top of the lemon slices. Invert a heavy dish on top
  of the grape leaves, so the bottom of the dish is pressing down on
  them. Add water to the pan, bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer
  on low for about 35 minutes, or until stuffed grape leaves are tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Pita Chips
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Lite margarine softened
      1    Crushed garlic clove
      1 tb Dried oregano
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      4 lg Pita breads
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees. In small bowl, combine first 6
  ingredients. Cut each pit bread in half; spread each half with
  margarine mixture, then cut each into quarters. Place on baking
  sheet; bake 3-5 minutes until browned and crisp.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miniature Puff Appetizers and Fillings
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Butter/margarine
      1 c  Flour
      4    Eggs

MMMMM---------------------CORN BEEF FILLING--------------------------
      1 cn (12-oz) corned beef
      2 tb Dried french onion soup mix
  1 1/4 c  Sour cream

MMMMM--------------------DEVILED HAM FILLING-------------------------
      1 cn (2 1/2-oz) deviled ham
      1 pk (3-oz) soften cream cheese
      1 tb Chili sauce
    1/2 ts Prepared mustard

MMMMM----------------------SPINACH FILLING---------------------------
      1    Box (10 1/2-oz) frozen
           Chopped thawed and drained
           Well spinach
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Salad dressing
      1 pk Vegetable dry soup mix
      1 c  Chopped water chestnuts/
           Almonds
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees. Heat water and butter/margarine to a
  rolling boil in saucepan. Stir in the flour all at once and beat over
  low heat until the mixture leaves the side of the pan and forms a
  ball. Remove from heat. Beat in eggs thoroughly, one at a time. Beat
  mixture until smooth and velvety. Using a spoon or pressing with a
  pastry bag, drop balls the size of a thimble on an ungreased baking
  sheet. Bake about 25-30 minutes, or until puffs are golden brown and
  dry.NOTE: Puffs may be made in the morning and covered loosely with
  paper towel so they soften a little. Slice in half and fill with one
  of the fillings. Mix together all ingredients for any one of the
  fillings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Turnovers #1
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Pecans (2-oz)
      3 md Size leeks well washed
           Finely diced (1 1/2 cup)
  3 1/2 tb Butter
      1 lb Mushrooms trimmed halved
           And thinly sliced (about
           5 cup)
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
      8    13 x 9 inch sheets phyllo
           Dough (from 8-oz package)
      6 tb Melted butter
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Bake pecans on cookie sheet in preheated
  oven until toasted about 10 minutes, Cool. Coarsely chop. Raise
  temperature to 375 degrees. Place rack in lowest position. Saute
  leeks in 2 1/2 Tb of the butter in large, heavy skillet over medium
  heat until soft and lightly browned, about 20 minutes. Add msuhrooms
  and remaining 1 Tb butter. Cook until mushrooms are soft and moisture
  has evaporated, about 15 minutes longer. Stir in mint, salt and
  pepper. Remove from heat; stir in sour cream and reserved nuts. Cool
  slightly. Lightly grease cookie sheet. Working with one sheet of
  phyllo at a time and keeping the others covered with plastic wrap,
  brush a sheet with melted butter. Cut sheet lengthwise into 4 equal
  pieces. Place a measuring tablespoonful of filling on the bottom
  corner of the strip, leaving a 1 inch bottom border. Fold corner up
  over the filling to form a triangle, then fold the triangle up and
  over. Keep flipping triangle up and over to end of strip. Trim off
  any excess dough. Repeat with remaining phyllo and filling. Place
  turnovers on prepared cookie sheet. Lightly brush with melted butter.
  Bake in preheated moderate oven at 375 degrees until crisp and
  golden, 12-15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Turnovers #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Pecans (about 2-oz)
      3 md Size leeks washed and
           Finely diced (1 1/2 cup)
  3 1/2 tb Butter
      1 lb Mushrooms trimmed and
           Finely sliced (about 5 cup)
    1/2 ts Fennel seed crushed
    1/2 ts Dill seed
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      8    13x9 inch sheets phyllo
           Dough from 8-oz package
      6 tb Melted butter
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Bake pecans on cookie sheet until
  toasted, about 10 minutes. Cool. Coarsely chop. Raise temperature to
  375 degrees. Place rack in lowest position. Saute leeks in 2 1/2 Tb
  of the butter in a large heavy skillet over medium heat until soft.
  Add mushrooms and remaining 1 Tb butter. Cook until mushrooms are
  sooft and moisture has evaporated. Stir in fennel seed, dill seed,
  dalt and pepper. Remove from heat; stir in sour cream and nuts. Cool
  slightly. Lightly grease cookie sheet. Working with one sheet of
  phyllo at a time and keeping the others covered with a damp towel and
  plastic wrap, brush a sheet with melted butter. Cut sheet lengthwise
  into 4 equal pieces. Place a measuring tablespoonful of filling on
  the bottom corner of one strip, leaving a 1 inch bottom border. Fold
  corner up over the filling to form a triangle, then fold the triangle
  up and over like folding a flag. Keep flipping triangle up and over
  to end of strip. Trim off any excess dough. Repeat with remaining
  phyllo and filling. Place turnovers on prepared cookie sheet. Lightly
  brush with melted butter. BAke in preheated oven at 375 degrees until
  crisp and golden, 12-15 minutes. NOTE: Turnovers may be frozen before
  baking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Party Mix
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) margarine or
           Butter
  1 1/4 ts Seasoned salt
  4 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      8 c  Your favorite chex cereals
      1 c  Salted mixed nuts
      1 c  Pretzel sticks
 
  Melt margarine in open roasting pan in preheated 250 oven. STir in
  seasonings. Gradually add cereals, nuts and pretzels; stir to coat
  evenly. Bake 1 hour, stirring every 15 minutes. Spread on absorbent
  paper to cool. Store in airitght container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Holland Herring
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Keg holland herring

MMMMM----------------FOR EACH WIDE MOUTH JAR (QUA---------------------
      2 c  Spanish onions coarsely cut
           Divided
    1/2 ts Mustard seed
    1/2 ts Whole black peppercorns
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2    Half bay leaf
           White pepper
 
  Drain brine from keg and clean herring cutting off tail and head if
  necessary. Soak in refrigerator for at least 24 hours in about 3
  gallons of water, soak longer and change water 5-6 times if herring
  are packed in salty brine. This will vary because of varieties of
  herring - salt, schmaltz, matjes and bismark - and they vary as to
  saltiness and firmness. To bone herring, take a sharp, pointed knife
  and slit along the backbone, starting with the head end on your left
  hand side, grasped firmly by your left hand, and traveling the knife
  across the spine, going about an inch down toward the bone until you
  come to the tail end. Bend the tail sharply to break it, then reverse
  the fish and move back along the spine, loosening flesh from bone
  with index finger and thumb. Roll slivers of fillet around pieces of
  dill pickle and fasten with a toothpick, you can make these large or
  smaller, for appetizers. In each jar, place 1 cup onions, the mustard
  seed, peppercorns, salt and bay leaf. Pack in rolmops, the remaining
  1 cup onions, then fill empty spaces around herring with mixture of
  1/2 water, 1/2 vinegar. Place lid on jar and shake from side to side
  to get rid of air bubbles. Remove lid and add more water and vinegar
  mixture to fill completelt. Cover again and refrigerate for 10 days.
  Rolmops must be eaten within 4 weeks, or they get soft.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Snacks
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Italian sausage
      1 tb Crushed oregano
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 pk Refrigerated biscuits
           Tomato paste
      1 c  Shredded sharp process
           Cheese
    1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
           Olives sliced for garnish
 
  Brown sausage; drain. Add oregano and garlic. On greased cookie sheet,
  flatten biscuits to 4 inch circles with floured custard cup; leave
  rim. Fill with tomato paste and sausage. Sprinkle with cheeses. Bake
  at 425 degrees for about 10 minutes. Trim with olive slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quesadillas
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    6-inch flour tortillas
           Oil
      1 c  (4-oz) shredded monterey
           Jack cheee with jalapeno
           Pepper
    1/2 c  (2-oz) shredded sharp
           Cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Finely chopped tomato
           Cilantro leaves
 
  Fry each tortilla in 1/4 inch of hot oil until crisp and golden,
  turning once, drain. Place tortillas on paper towels. Sprinkle with
  combined cheeses; top with tomatos. Microwave on high 1 to 1 1/2
  minutes or until cheese is melted. CUt each tortilla into quarters,
  top with cilantro. Serve warm. If using regular oven, place on cookie
  sheet. BAke at 350 degrees, 10 minutes or until cheese is melted. The
  rest is as above.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage and Mushroom Phyllo Twists
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Pork sausage meat crumbled
      1 sm Onion, minced
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 lb Mushroom chopped fine
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
           Pinch of allspice
    1/2 ts Dried crumbled mint
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
           Leaves
      2 oz Cream cheese softened
      4    16 x 12 inch sheets phyllo
           Stacked between 2 sheets of
           Wax paper and covered with
           Damp dish towel
    1/4 c  Clarified butter
      2 tb Fine fresh bread crumbs
 
  In a large skillet cook the sausage meat over moderately high heat,
  stirring and breaking up any larger pieces, until it is cooked
  through and browned. Transfer meat to a fine sieve, and drain. In the
  skillet, cook the onion and the garlic in the unsalted butter over
  moderately low heat until the onion is softened. Add the mushrooms,
  and cook the mixture over moderate heat, stirring until the liquid
  the mushrooms give off evaporates. Add the cumin, allspice and the
  mint and cook the mixture, stirring, for 2 minutes. Transfer the
  mixture to a bowl, add the sausage meat, the parsley, cream cheese,
  and salt and pepper to taste, and combine the mixture well. Working
  quickly to keep the phyllo from drying out, put 1 sheet of phyllo on
  a work surface, brush lightly with some of the clarified butter, and
  sprinkle with 1 Tb of the bread crumbs. Lay another sheet of phyllo
  on top of the first sheet and brush lightly with some of the
  remaining clarified butter. Cut the sheets into thirds lengthwise and
  into quarters crosswise to form 12 squares. Put a rounded ts of the
  filling in each square, gather the corners of the phyllo over the
  filling, and twist the phyllo gently to seal it. Continue to make
  hors d'oeuvres in the same manner with the remaining phyllo, butter,
  crumbs and filling. Bake the sausage and mushroom phyllo twists in
  jelly-roll pans in a preheated oven at 400 degrees for 10-12
  minutes,or until phyllo is golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Shrimp
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      2 tb Sesame seeds
      1    2 1/2 inch piece fresh
           Ginger- root peeled and
           Coarsely chopped
      1 tb Rice wine vinegar
      1 tb Oriental sesame oil
    1/4 c  Cold water
      2 ts Honey
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground hot red pepper
  2 1/2 lb Large shrimp (about 35)
           Shelled and deveined (2 lb
           When cleaned)

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Honey
      2 tb Rice wine vinegar
      2 tb Soy sauce
      4 ts Oriental sesame oil
    1/2 ts Dijon style mustard
      3 tb Peanut oil for cooking
           Shrimp
 
  MARINADE: Combine sesame seeds and gingerroot in container of electric
  blender or food processor. Cover, whirl until blended. Add vinegar,
  sesame oil, cold water, honey, salt and red pepper. Whirl until
  blended. Transfer the marinade to a large bowl. Add the shrimp and
  toss to coat. Cover with plastic wrap; marinate in refrigerator 45
  minutes but no longer than 60 minutes. SAUCE: Whisk honey, vinegar,
  soy sauce, sesame oil and mustard in small bowl. Reserve. Heat peanut
  oil in large skillet over medium high heat. Working in batches, lift
  shrimp from marinade with slotted spoon or spatula to skillet. Saute
  until shrimp just begin to curl, 1-3 minutes. Serve with sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp and Sirloin Satay
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     24 md Shelled and deveined shrimp
      1    Boneless beef sirloin
           Steak cut 3/4 to 1 inch
           Thick -about 2/3 lb
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      2 tb Sesame oil
    1/4 c  Sliced green onion
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Red pepper flakes divided
    1/2 c  Crunchy peanut butter
    3/4 c  Water
 
  Slice steak into 12 thin slices, about 1/8 to 1/4 inch thick, and 5-6
  inches long. Combine soy sauce, sherry,sesame oil, onion, garlic,
  sugar, ginger and 1/2 ts of the red pepper flakes in a shallow glass
  dish. Add shrimp and beef strips, coat with marinade and cover and
  refrigerate for 30 minutes. Drain beef and shrimp and thread 1 beef
  strip accordian style with 2 shrimp per skewer, alternating beef and
  shrimp. Repeat until you have 12 skewers. In small pan, bring the
  marinade to a boil and add remaining 1/2 ts red pepper flakes, peanut
  butter and water. Heat over low heat until sauce is thick and warm.
  Add more water if necessary.  Heat broiler and cook satays for 2
  minutes on each side or until shrimp is thoroughly cooked, or bake in
  a 500 degree oven. Serve satays with peanut sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp New Orleans
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Prepared mustard
      1 ts Paprika
      2    Green onion with tops,
           Minced
      1    Celery heart minced
      2 c  Cleaned cooked shrimp
           Shredded lettuce
 
  Combine ingredients except shrimp, season; pour over shrimp, toss
  lightly. Chill 2 hours. Serve on shredded lettuce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach and Feta Cheese in Phyllo
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Phyllo dough
      1 lb Butter or more
      3    Egg
    3/4 lb Feta cheese
    1/8 lb Fresh parmesan
      1 pk (8-oz) softened cream
           Cheese
      2 cl Garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Finely minced onion
      1 lb Fresh spinach
           Pinch of cayenne pepper
           Pinch black pepper
 
  Thaw phyllo overnight in refrigerator. When ready to assemble
  appetizers, melt butter and set aside. Whisk eggs and add feta,
  parmesan, cream cheese, garlic and onion. Fold in spinach and season
  with cayenne pepper, black pepper, nutmeg if desirede, and dillweed.
  Set aside. Remove roll of thawed phyllo from box. USing a sharp
  knife, cut roll into quarters (each quarter-roll will be about 3
  inches wide, perfect for appetizers. WWork with one quarter at a
  time, keeping the remaining covered with a damp towel and
  refrigerated. Peel off 3 strips from the quarter roll, one at a time.
  Butter each strip and stack on top of each other, you can use a
  twisted napkin dipped in butter as a dauber or a pastry brush or
  clean fingers. Place 1 level Tb of the filling near the Thaw spinach
  and squeeze dry between paper towels. By hand, mix
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach, Walnut and Raisin Boreks
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Margarine
      2 md Onion, chopped
      2 pk (10-oz each) frozen chopped
           Spinach thawed and squeezed
           Dry
      1    Lightly beaten egg
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts/almonds/
           Pecan
    1/3 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
    3/4 ts Salt
           Fresh ground black pepper
      1 ts Dried dill
      1 lb Phyllo leaves
  1 1/2    Stick margarine melted
           Poppy seeds
 
  In a large saucepan, cook the onions in 2 Tb margarine until soft, not
  brown. Add the well squeezed spinach, egg, nuts, raisins, parsley,
  salt, pepper and dill. Mix well. Taste for adequate seasoning. Thaw
  the phyllo in the refrigerator for at least a day before using.
  Unwrap and unrool dough, covering it with a damp, well-wrung towel to
  keep it from drying out as you work. With scissors, cut the dough in
  half lengthwise, all at once, rather than sheet by sheet, and stack
  all together. Work off this stack. Brush some melted margarine along
  half the top strip of dough. FOld the ungreased half over the greased
  half and place a spoon of filling in one corner. Fold the strip over,
  making a triangle. Continue making triangles as you fold the strip
  up, like folding a flag. Tuck under any ragged edges and brush top of
  triangle with margarine. Sprinkle with poppy seeds. Place on a baking
  tray so as to get as many as possible on one sheet. Continue filling
  strips of dough until all filling is used. Bake the boreks, one tray
  at a time, in the upper third of a preheated 375 degree oven about
  20-25 minutes or until golden, turning pan once after about 15
  minutes. Cool the boreks on a wire rack for a few minutes before
  serving so condensation doesn't form and soften the crust. Serve
  warm. Assembled boreks can be refrigerated for a day or two before
  baking, or after baking freeze them on a cookie sheet and then box
  them. Rewarm boreks in a 375 degree oven about 10 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tartar of Smoked Salmon on Rye Barquette
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      1 lb Smoked salmon minced by
           Hand
      1 tb Capers
           Juice of 1 lemon only
      1 ts Minced onion
      1    Egg white
    1/2 ts Fresh chives finely chopped
     30    Barquettes-boat shaped
           Pastry
 
  MIx well minced salmon, capers, lemon juice, onion, egg white and
  chives and portion into 30 equal parts. Top barquettes and serve. If
  barquettes are not available, use round 1 inch croutons or similar
  cracker as base.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Triscuit Snack
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Bacon fried crisp and drain
           And broken into pieces
    1/2 c  Salad dressing
      6    Green onions and stems chop
           Fine
           Triscuits
 
  Mix together, put in triscuits. Bake 15 minutes at 350 degrees.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey or Chicken Tenders
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Fresh turkey tenderloin
           Or boneless chicken breast
  1 1/4 c  Divided oat bran cereal
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 lg Egg whites
      2 tb Lowfat evaporated milk
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Peanut oil
 
  Cut turkey tenderloins or chicken breasts into 6 slices by cutting
  across the turkey carefully with sharp knife. Pound tenders to 1/4
  inch thickness. SLit around edges to keep from curling. Blend 1/2 cup
  of the oat bran cereal with salt and pepper and coat tenders. Whip
  egg whites lightly with milk. Blend remaining 3/4 cup oat bran with
  paprika. Dip meat into egg whites, then into oat bran paprika
  mixture. Place on baking rack and allow 5 minutes to dry. Heat peanut
  oil in large frying pan until hot. Brown tenders 2-3 pieces at a time
  for 3 minutes per side, or until crusty and brown. Drain well and
  serve with a low-fat dip.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Venison Hard Salami
 Categories: Appetizer, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Venison without suet/fats
           OR hamburger
      5 ts Tender quick salt
  2 1/2 ts Coarse black pepper
  2 1/2 ts Garlic salt
      1 ts Hickory smoked salt/liquid
           Flavoring
 
  Mix all ingredients in a pan. Keep refrigerated and covered. Mix well
  once a day for 3 days. On 4th day form in firm compact rolls and
  place on broiler pan. Bake 4 hours at  180 degrees. Turn rolls 3
  timesduring baking. Salami may be cooked longer it you wish it to be
  firmer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Grapefruit Supreme
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Grapfruit - 1/2 of one for
           Each person
  1 1/2 ts Butter per half
    1/2 ts Sugar per half
      2 tb Sugar-cinnamon mixture per
           Half - 4 part sugar and 1
           Part cinnamon
           Cooked chicken liver for
           Each half
 
  Have grapefruit at room temperature. Cut in half; loosen sections.
  Cut a hole in center of each half; fill with butter. SPrinkle sugar
  over each half; then the sugar-cinnamon mixture. Broil grapefruit on
  a shallow baking pan or jelly-roll pan 4 inches from heat about 8-10
  minutes or just long enough to brown tops and heat to bubbling. Place
  a cooked chicken liver in center of each grapefruit half; sprinkle
  lightly with sugar; broil 2 minutes longer. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheery Cherry Canapes
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 ts Grated orange peel
      2 tb Fine chopped walnuts
      1 pk (3-oz) softened cream
           Cheese
      1 tb Orange juice
     16    Slices party rye bread
      4    Slices (4 oz) thinly sliced
           Ham
     15    Pitted sweet cherries
 
  Combine cream cheese, orange juice and peel, and walnuts. Spread
  about 1/2 Tb of the mixture on each slice of bread. Cut each slice of
  ham into 4 triangles; place one triangle on top of cream cheese
  mixture. Top each canape with a pitted cherry, secured with a
  toothpick.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocktail Party Shrimp
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Bunch scallions/shallots
    1/2 lg Bunch parsley
      2 cn Whole pimentos
      2 lg Pods garlic
      3    Parts salad oil to 1 part
           White vinegar
           Salt
           Pepper
           Dry mustard
           Red pepper
      5 lb Boiled shelled cleaned
           Shrimp or defrosted frozen
 
  Chop vegetables fine in a food processor or blender. Add to oil/
  vinegar mixture. Mix well. Season to taste with other seasonings.
  Pour mixture over shrimp, turn several times. Refrigerate for at
  least 24 hours, mixing occasionally. Drain liquid to serve. Serve
  with toothpicks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab, Chili, Cheese
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk 8-oz cream cheese
      1 cn Crabmeat
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
      1 ts Horseradish
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Tobasco sauce
      1 ts Chopped chives
    1/4 ts Parsley
      1 ts Salt
 
  Slice cream cheese in half and cover with crabmeat. Just before
  serving top with chili sauce mixture. Serve with crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gai Dom Kha (Thai Chicken Soup)
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 ts Stalks lemon grass
      3 tb Sliced Siamese ginger
      4 c  Cloves
      3    Peppercorns
      7    Coriander roots
      3    Shallots
      4 c  Medium-thick coconut milk
      1 lb Sliced white chicken
      5    Red chilies (prik khee nu),
           Minced
      4 tb Fish sauce (nam pla)
      4 tb Lime juice
      5    Kaffir lime leaves,
           Shredded
      3    Chopped coriander sprigs
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON GAI DOM KHA (THAI CHICKEN
  SOUP) Wash lemon grass and trim root ends and tough layers. Slice
  bottom 6 inches thinly. Chop 1 T. of this. Puree chopped lemon grass,
  1 T. of sliced ginger, garlic, peppercorns, coriander roots and
  shallots. Bring 1 cup of coconut milk to boil and add lemon grass
  mixture. While stirring, reduce heat to medium and add chicken,
  remaining coconut milk, ginger slices and lemon grass. Bring to boil,
  reduce heat, and simmer uncovered until chicken is tender. Season
  with chilies, fish sauce and lime juice. Decorate servings with lime
  leaves and coriander sprigs.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
  
  To make coconut milk: Blend 2 cups fresh or frozen grated coconut with
  water. Strain through double cheesecloth, pressing out all liquid.
  This is thick coconut milk. To get thin milk, add warm water to
  residue from first straining. Let stand 5 minutes, then press as
  before.
  
  For coconut cream, refrigerate first pressing and cream will rise to
  top. Refrigerate or freeze. Two cups coconut makes 3 cups thick milk,
  of which 6 tablespoons is cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gibanica
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Large curd cottage cheese
  1 1/4 ts Butter
    1/2 ts Salt
      4    Eggs
      1 lb Phyllo dough
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON GIBANICA Mix cheese with egg
  yolks and one stick of melted butter. Add salt. Beat egg whites until
  foamy and add to cheese mixture. Grease 9x13 pan. Place 3 phyllo
  sheets on bottom and sprinkle lightly with filling. Alternate triple
  layers of dough with filling, ending with dough.
  
  Melt remaining butter and sprinkle over top. Bake at 350 degrees for 1
  hour. Let cool slightly before cutting. Can be reheated uncovered.
  Makes about 8 large servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golden Chocolate Treasure Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 18 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    3/4 ts Baking soda
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    3/4 c  Butter, softened
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Vanilla
     10 oz (1-1/2 c.) semi-sweet
           Treasures baking pieces
      1 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON GOLDEN CHOCOLATE TREASURE
  COOKIES Beat brown sugar and butter until creamy, 3 to 5 minutes. Add
  egg and vanilla. Gradually blend in dry ingredients. Stir in
  Treasures and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls onto ungreased
  cookie sheets. Bake at 375 for 8 to 10 minutes. Let stand 2 minutes
  before removing from sheets.
  
  Makes about 18 cookies, 2-1/2 inches.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Korean Wontons
 Categories: Asian, Beef
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      1 lb Wonton skins
      2 lb Lean hamburger
      1    Chopped green pepper
      8 oz Chopped bean sprouts
      1    Chopped onion
      1 ts En egg
      1 ts MSG
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      3 tb Sesame oil
      4    Chopped green onions
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON KOREAN WONTONS black pepper
  
  Mix all ingredients except wonton skins. Put 1 T. of filling in each
  skin, fold and seal with egg. Deep fry until golden brown.
  
  Makes approximately 60.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Leftover Rice Muffins
 Categories: Rice, Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
      2 tb Brown sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
    2/3 c  Skim milk
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      1 c  Cooked brown rice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON LEFTOVER RICE MUFFINS Stir
  first three ingredients together. Beat remaining ingredients,
  stirring rice in last. Combine two mixtures just until moistened.
  Spoon into 12 muffin cups. Bake at 440 degrees for 20 minutes.
  
       127 ea 27 calories per serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Poppy Seed Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Poppy seeds
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Orange juice
      2 ts Orange extract
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON ORANGE POPPY SEED MUFFINS Stir
  together flour,sugar,baking powder, salt and poppyseeds and set aside.
  Whisk eggs, sour cream, oil, orange juice and extract and add dry
  ingredients just until moistened. Divide batter into 24 greased muffin
  cups. Bake at 350 degrees for 25 to 30 minutes or until golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppercorn Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots
      2 tb Vinegar
  1 1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Cream or half-and-half
    3/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
  1 1/2 ts Finely ground pepper
  2 1/2 ts Cracked peppercorns
    1/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON PEPPERCORN DRESSING Combine all
  ingredients and refrigerate in jar at least 24 hours.
  
  Makes 1 pint.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Duckling W/apple Sesame Stuffing
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Ducklings
      2 pk Stuffing mix
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/4 c  Dried parsley
      4    Chopped tart apples
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Poultry seasoning
    1/4 ts Coarse black pepper
    1/2 ts Toasted sesame seeds
    1/2 c  Giblet stock
      1 tb Instant minced onion (or
           Use onion powder)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON ROASTED DUCKLING WITH APPLE
  SESAME STUFFING Washing ducks inside and out and pat dry. Cook
  giblets in water to make stock. Toast sesame seeds in shallow pan at
  350 degrees for 20 minutes. Prepare stuffing mixes according to
  package. Add next seven ingredients and mix well. Use hot stock to
  soak onion in. (If using onion powder, add with other seasonings.)
  Stuff and truss ducks. Place in open roasting pan without water.
  Roast uncovered at 350 degrees for 2-1/2 hours. (25 to 30 minutes per
  pound.)
  
  Makes 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scalloped Potatoes and Ham
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lg Parboiled potatoes
      1    Thinly sliced onion
      2 lb Ham, cut in chunks
      6 tb Butter
    1/4 c  + 2 T. flour
      3 c  Milk
      3 c  Shredded cheddar
      2 ts Powdered mustard
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
  1 1/2 tb Sherry or vermouth
           Salt to taste
           Black pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON SCALLOPED POTATOES AND HAM
  
  Slice potatoes and layer with onions and ham in a large casserole. (I
  cook onions in butter or oil first.) Melt butter, add flour and cook
  until smooth and bubbly. Remove from heat, stir in milk, and reheat
  to boiling, whisking constantly. Cook 3 minutes. Add cheese one cup
  at a time until it melts. Add remaining ingredients. Pour over ham
  mixture and bake at 350 degrees for 45 to 60 minutes, until potatoes
  are done and top is browned.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced or Plain Butterhorns
 Categories: Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/4 c  Water
      1    Yeast
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Softened margarine
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Pecans or walnuts, chopped
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Softened margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Milk, about
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON SPICED OR PLAIN BUTTERHORNS
  
  Butter Frosting: Combine water, yeast and 1 T. sugar. Let stand in
  warm place until yeast dissolves and mixture foams. Mix together
  nutmeg, flour, cinnamon, salt and margarine as you would for pie
  crust. Add egg yolks and yeast mixture. Blend well and form into a
  ball.
  
  Divide dough into 4 parts. Roll each into an 8- or 10-inch circle
  onto wax paper. Cut into eight to ten wedges. Spread each piece with
  mixture of egg white and 1/2 c. sugar and sprinkle with nuts. Roll
  from wide end to pointed end to form a horn. Bake on greased cookie
  sheet at 375 degrees for 12 to 15 minutes until lightly browned.
  
  To make frosting, combine ingredients and beat until fluffy. Frost
  when cooled.
  
  If left unfrosted, can dust with powdered sugar or leave plain. For
  non-spiced cookie, omit cinnamon and nutmeg.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sunflower Seed Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Soda
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Butter
      1 c  Shortening
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Flour
      1 c  Coconut
      1 c  Roasted sunflower seeds
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON SUNFLOWER SEED COOKIES Cream
  first six ingredients. Stir in remaining ingredients. Roll into balls
  and flatten onto ungreased baking sheet. Bake at 350 degrees for 10
  to 15 minutes. Can also use salted peanuts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Taco Pie
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Crescent rolls
      1 lb Hamburger
      1 pk Taco mix
    1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Crushed corn chips, divided
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Shredded cheddar
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON TACO PIE Cook hamburger, taco
  mix and water according to package directions. Place unrolled
  crescent dough in ungreased pie plate to form crust. Sprinkle with
  half of the corn chips and top with hamburger mixture. Spread sour
  cream on top and cover with cheese and remaining chips. Bake at 375
  degrees for 20 minutes or until heated through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Stew with Dumplings
 Categories: Poultry, Soup/stew, Turkey
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Turkey breast tenderloins
      4    Slices diced bacon
      4    Carrots cut in chunks
      2    Quartered onions (I use
           Diced)
      2    Stalks celery, cut in
           Chunks
      2 c  Water, divided
    1/4 ts Rosemary
      1    Bay leaf
      3 tb Flour
      1 c  Bisquick
    1/3 c  Milk
      4 oz Can chicken broth
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON TURKEY STEW WITH DUMPLINGS
  Saute bacon in Dutch oven until partially crisp. Cut turkey into 1
  inch chunks and add with onion. Saute until meat is no longer pink.
  Add carrots, celery, 1 and 3/4 cup water, broth, rosemary and bay
  leaf. Bring to boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer for 20 minutes.
  Mix flour with 1/4 c. water and stir into stew mixture. Bring to
  boil, stirring constantly. Remove bay leaf. Salt and pepper to taste.
  Mix Bisquick and milk and drop by rounded tablespoons onto stew. Cook
  uncovered for 10 minutes. Cover and cook 10 minutes longer.
  
  Makes 4 to 5 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whole Wheat Raisin Scones
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      3 tb Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Flour
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
      2 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Margarine
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Raisins
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON WHOLE WHEAT RAISIN SCONES
  Combine 2 T. sugar with remaining dry ingredients. Cut in margarine
  until crumbly. Beat eggs and reserve 1 T. Stir remaining eggs, milk,
  and raisins into crumb mixture. Knead dough 5 times. Divide in half
  and pat into 5-inch circle. Cut each into 8 wedges and place on
  greased cookie sheet. Brush reserved egg over wedges and sprinkle
  with reserved sugar. Bake at 425 degrees for 17 minutes or until
  browned. Serve warm.
  
  Makes 16 scones, 130 calories each.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Armenian Barley and Yoghurt Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Barley
      6 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Onion
    1/4 ts Butter
      3 tb Fresh mint OR
      1 tb Dried mint
      2 tb Fresh parsley, minced
      1 ts Yoghurt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Judy Haight Originally from: The New York
  Times Bread and Soup Cookbook Armenian Barley and Yoghurt Soup Salt &
  freshly ground pepper to taste Place the barley and the broth in a
  soup kettle and cook for a few minutes. Peel and chop the onion;
  saute in butter until it is golden and transparent. Add to the soup
  kettle, together with the mint, parsley, salt and pepper. Simmer the
  soup until the barley is soft. Stir in the yoghurt and continue to
  simmer for about 5 minutes. This soup can be served either hot or icy
  cold in small decorative bowls.
  
  Servings: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Tortilla Stacks
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
    3/4 c  Chopped green bell pepper
    3/4 c  Chopped red bell pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Picante sauce
     16 oz Green Giant Valley Combo's
           Frozen Broccoli Supreme
      8    (8-inch) flour tortillas
     16 cn Refried beans
      8 oz (2cups) shredded Montery
           Jack cheese
      8 oz (2cups) shredded cheddar
           Cheese
           Green bell pepper rings
           Red bell pepper rings
           Ripped pitted olives
           Picante sauce
           Sour cream
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marleen Madar Heres a good one that is
  great if you are into vegetables... Vegetable Tortilla Stacks
  
  Heat oven to 375 F. Heat oil in medium skillet over medium high heat.
  Add chopped green and red peppers and onions; cook and stir until
  crisp-tender. Drain. Stir in 1/2 cup picante sauce. Cook Broccoli
  Cauliflower Supreme until crisp and tender s directed. Drain, cut up
  large pieces if necessary.
  
  Place 2 tortillas side by side on large ungreased cookie sheet.
  Spread each with about 1/4 of the pepper mixture. Top each with
  tortilla. Divide vegetables evenly with between tortilla stacks;
  sprinkle each with 1 cup of the Monterey Jack cheese. Spread 2
  tortillas with remaining refried beans and top with remaining pepper
  mixture; place one on each tortilla stack. Top each with one of the
  remaining tortillas; sprinkle each with 1 cup cheddar cheese.
  
  Bake at 375F for 10 to 15 minutes or until cheese is melted. To serve
  top with green and red pepper rings, ripe olives, picante sauce and
  sour cream. Cut into wedges.
  
  Oops almost forgot!!
  
  To fry tortillas, heat 4 tablespoons of oil in 10-inch skillet over
  medium heat. Fry tortillas in hot oil for 5 to 10 seconds on each
  side until lightly browned and blistered; drain well on paper towels!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cavatiney
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 pk Medium noodles
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 lb Italian sausage (mild)
      1    Jar pizza sauce
    1/2    Jar spaghetti sauce
           Butter
    1/4 lb Thinly sliced pepperoni
    1/2 c  Shredded mozzeralla
    1/4 c  Grated sharp chedder cheese
           Garlic powder
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Jerri Watson
  
  Boil a half bag of medium noodles. Brown one pound hamburger and one
  pound sausage. Drain noodles and in a bowl mix hamburger, sausage and
  mix in one jar pizza sauce and half a jar spagetti sauce. Grease a
  baking dish with butter; (only a thin coat). Spoon in meat mixture.
  Top with peperonni, mozzeralla cheese, and sharp sheddar cheese. On
  top of that sparkle lightly with garlic powder. Put in oven on 350
  degree's and bake until cheese melts. It taste like a pizza lasagne.
  Let me know how you like it. I have plenty of other recipes to share
  with everyone.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Little Corner Restaurant Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Unsalted butter
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 oz Semisweet chocolate,
           Chopped
    1/4 c  Rum
  1 1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
      9    Blanched almonds

MMMMM------------------------SPONGE CAKE-----------------------------
    1/4 ts Butter
      6    Eggs, room temperature
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  All-purpose flour

MMMMM-----------------------CUSTARD CREAM----------------------------
      3 c  Milk
      8    Egg yolks, room temp
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour

MMMMM---------------------COFFEE ZABAGLIONE--------------------------
      5    Egg yolks, room temp
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Espresso coffee room temp
 
  A rich, luscious dessert from the famous Il Cantoncino Restaurante in
  Bologona. Prepare Sponge Cake. Prepare Custard Cream. Prepare Coffee
  Zabaglione. Cream butter in a large bowl until pale and fluffy.
  Gradually add cooled zabaglione to butter, beating vigorously after
  each addition. Refrigerate mixture 2 to 3 minutes to stiffen
  slightly. Whip cream and refrigerate. Preheat oven to 200F (95C). Put
  chocolate into a small ovenproof bowl and place in oven until
  chocolate has melted, 4 to 5 minutes. Cut cake into 2 layers.
  Sprinkle rum over 2 cut surfaces of cake. Spread 1 layer with Custard
  Cream. Top with second layer. Spread zabaglione mixture evenly over
  top of cake. Hold cake in 1 hand and spread zabaglione mixture around
  sides of cake. Gently press walnuts onto sides of cake. Put whipped
  cream into a pastry bag fitted with a medium star tube. Pipe a cream
  border around edge of cake. Decorate center of cake with 9 cream
  rosettes. Dip almonds into melted chocolate and place on top of
  rosettes. Refrigerate cake until serving. Cake can be prepared up to
  24 hours ahead. Let cake stand 30 minutes at room temperature before
  serving. SPONGE CAKE: Preheat oven to 350F (175C). Butter and flour a
  10-inch cake pan with a removable bottom; shake off excess flour.
  Melt butter in a small saucepan; cool slightly. Put eggs, sugar and
  vanilla in a large bowl. Set bowl in a larger one containing hot
  water or use a double boiler off the heat. Beat at high speed 10 to
  12 minutes or until mixture is pale and thick and has tripled in
  volume. Sift flour over batter in several batches, gently folding in
  with a spatula after each addition. Gradually add cooled butter,
  folding gently until well blended. Pour batter into prepared pan.
  Cook 20 to 25 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in center of
  cake comes out dry. Cool cake in pan 20 to 30 minutes, then transfer
  to a rack. Cake can be prepared 1 or 2 days ahead, covered with
  plastic wrap and stored at room temperature. CUSTARD CREAM: In a
  medium saucepan, bring milk just to a boil. Put egg yolks, sugar and
  vanilla into a medium bowl. Beat 2 to 3 minutes until mixture is pale
  and thick. Gradually beat in flour. Very slowly stir half the hot
  milk into yolk mixture. Pour mixture into pan containing remaining
  hot milk. Whisk over medium heat 2 to 3 minutes or until custard has
  a medium-thick consistency. Do not let mixture boil. Place custard in
  bowl. Cover and refrigerate. COFFEE ZABAGLIONE: In a large bowl or
  the top part of a double boiler, beat egg yolk and sugar until pale
  and thick. Set bowl or top part of double boiler over simmering
  water; do not let water boil. Gradually add coffee, beating
  constantly. Continue beating until zabaglione has doubled in volume
  and is soft and fluffy, 4 to 6 minutes. Remove from heat and set pan
  or bowl over a bowl full of ice water. Stir with a whisk until
  mixture has cooled. Makes 8 to 10 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana-Sour Cream Bars
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 72 servings
 
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Margarine or butter,
           Softened
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Mashed bananas (about 3
           Large)
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Margarita Towns Originally from: Betty
  Crocker's Cookie Book Banana-Sour Cream Bars Vanilla glaze
  
  Heat oven to 375. Mix sugar, sour cream, margarine and egg in large
  mixing bowl on low speed, scraping bowl occasionally, 1 min. Beat in
  bananas and vanilla on low 30 sec. Beat in flour, salt & baking soda
  on med, scraping sides. Stir in nuts. Spread in greased and floured
  jelly roll pan, 15-1/2x10-1/2x1 inch. Bake until light brown. 20 to
  25 min. Cool. Frost with Vanilla glaze. Cut into bars, 2 x1. About 6
  doz.
  
  Vanilla Glaze
  
  Mix 2 C powdered sugar, 1/4 C marg or butter, softened, 1-1/2 ts.
  vanilla and 2 Tab. hot water. Stir in 1-2 teaspoons additional hot
  water until smooth and of desired consistency.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 cn Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Rice
      4 c  FRESH lemon juice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marge Clark Cook rice in broth for
  approx. 40 mins.
  
  Add the warm broth slowly to the beaten egg yolks, beating constantly.
  
  That's all there is to it...
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mung Dahl
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 ts Er
    3/4 c  Mung dahl washed
      1    Tomato
      1 tb Fresh ginger, grated
    1/2 ts Tumeric,
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Ghee
    1/2 ts Red chilis
  1 1/2 ts Cumin seeds
    3/4 ts Mustard seeds
           Cilantro
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Blanche Nonken Originally from: The
  Krishna Echo I make a lentil soup called mung dahl which is very nice
  accompaniment for grains, like rice with peas, or chapattis which are
  unleavened wheat-flour 'tortillas' made from very finely ground wheat
  flour called atta or durham flour. Put in large saucepan, cook high
  till foam rises, skim foam off.
  
  Put tomato into boiling soup for couple mins until skin breaks, take
  it out and under cold water, skin tomato and navel, cut into small
  cubes. Put back into soup, then: Add to soup then add: turmeric and
  salt
  
  Now, in a small frying pan, put 2 T of ghee or oil (ghee preferred)
  and put in 1/2 t red chillis (more or less to taste) after oil is
  heating up, don't burn, then put in 1-1/2 t. cumin seeds, let brown,
  don't burn, and add, 3/4 t. mustard seeds and pop 'em all. This
  mixture is called 'chaunce' and add that to the boiling soup very
  carefully. The chaunce should explode with a 'chunnnnggg' and a
  strong aroma fill the immediate cooking area (hehe). If you start to
  cough a bit, you're doing just fine. Let cook until beans are no
  longer recognizable, or have dissolved, about 1/2 hr to 40 mins all
  together from flame on to end of cooking time. Serve very hot.
  Sprinkle generously with the leaves only of corriander (cilantro).
  Worth the time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marbled Strawberry Mousse
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 c  Strawberries, hulled
      3    Envelopes unflavored
           Gelatin
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      4    Egg whites, at room temp
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass Originally from: Frank Nicke
  MARBLED STRAWBERRY MOUSSE Early in day or day ahead:
  
  Prepare collar for 1-1/2 quart souffle dish: tear off 20-inch strip of
  waxed paper; fold lengthwise to make a 20-inch by 6-inch strip. Wrap
  strip around outside of dish so collar stand 2 inches above rim.
  
  In food processor or blender, puree strawberries. Pour 1 cup puree
  into a small bowl, remaining puree into a large bowl.
  
  In 1 quart saucepan, mix gelatin, sugar and salt. Add water; cook
  over low heat until gelatin is completely dissolved, stirring often.
  Into puree in small bowl, stir 2 tablespoons of gelatin mixture. Into
  puree in large bowl, stir lemon juice, vanilla, and remaining gelatin
  mixture. Refrigerate mixtures, stirring often, until mixtures mound
  when dropped from spoon (about 45 minutes).
  
  In small bowl, with mixer at high speed, beat egg whites until stiff
  peaks form. In large bowl, with mixer at medium speed, beat cream
  until stiff peaks form. Using a spatula, gently fold egg whites and
  cream into strawberry mixture in the large bowl.
  
  Alternately spoon strawberry mixtures from large and small bowls into
  prepared souffle dish. Cut through mixtures with knife to make marbled
  design, then cover and refrigerate until mousse is set (about 3
  hours). Carefully remove waxed paper collar before serving.
  
  Makes 12 servings.
  
  NOTE: I think this dessert tastes better when it is made a day ahead
  so the flavors blend, but it doesn't look as nice (the egg whites and
  whipped cream start to lose volume, so it starts to lose its shape
  and height). If appearance is important to you, make it early the day
  it is to be eaten.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Sams
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 80 servings
 
      6 c  Gran. Sugar
    3/4 c  Cocoa
  1 1/2 c  Milk
  1 1/2 tb Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Peanut Butter
      9 c  Rolled Oats
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Linda Jackson Chocolate Sams Combine
  sugar, cocoa, milk & butter bring to a rolling boil. Remove from
  heat, add flavoring and peanut butter. Stir until blended. Pour over
  oats. (Let set about 2 minutes.) Drop On Greased Cookie Sheet.
  
  Yields 80 Cookies
  
  (Optional) coconut can be used.
  
  I use an ice cream scoop; it's faster. I never get 80 cookies unless
  I use a smaller scoop.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple 7-Up Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Duncan Hines Pineapple
           Supreme cake mix
      1    Instant vanilla pudding mix
     10    Bottle 7-Up
      4    Eggs

MMMMM---------------------------ICING--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Stick margarine
      2 cn Crushed pineapple in juice
      1    Angel Flake coconut
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Marge Clark Originally from: a church lady
  Pineapple 7-up Cake: Mix cake & pudding mixes and 7-up. Beat well.
  Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each. Pour into greased
  9x13 pan, bake at 350 degrees 40-50 minutes, until the cake tests
  done. Icing: Bring all ingredients to a boil, pour over cake. Poke
  holes in cake with cake tester to help in absorbing icing.
  
  This cake is so moist it's juicy...and delicious!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Falafel
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked chickpeas (2 cups,
           Soaked 1 1/2 hours, boiled
           Until very soft, drained)
      3 md Cloves crushed garlic
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Each celery and scallions
           Finely minced
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      3 tb Tahini (sesame seed paste)
    1/2 ts Tumeric
      3 tb Flour or fine bread crumbs
    1/4 ts Cayenne;
           Dash of black pepper
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Dori Peterson Originally from: "The
  Moosewood Cookbook" Mash the chickpeas well, combine with other
  ingredients. Chill well. With floured hands make the batter into one
  inch diameter balls. Dust each one lightly with flour. Heat a 2 inch
  pool of oil in a heavy skillet to 365 degrees. Deep fry the felafel
  until golden and serve immedaitely.
  
  Serve with tahini-lemon sauce, diced cucumbers, tomatos and peppers in
  pocket bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tahini-Lemon Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Tahini
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk or yogurt
      1 md Clove garlic crushed
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Finely minced scallions
    1/4 c  Finely minced parsley
    1/2 ts Ground cumin (more to
           Taste)
           Dash or two of tamari (mild
           Soy sauce)
           Salt to taste
           Dash or two of cayenne and
           Paprika
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Dori Peterson Originally from: "The
  Moosewood Cookbook"
  
  Beat very well with whisk of electric mixer. (The more you whip it the
  thicker it gets. Follow your own personal designs.)
  
  Tahini is available in most health food stores.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauce for Thai Fried Corn Cakes
 Categories: Thai, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Vinegar
      4 tb Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2    Chili, crushed
    1/4 c  Peanuts
    1/4 c  Cucumber, thinly sliced
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephen Ceideburg Originally from:
  "Discover Thai Cooking".Pierre Chaslin, Piyatep Canungmai, Luca
  Invernizzi Tettoni, Times Editions, Singapore, 1987 Sauce: To make
  the sauce, bring to a boil the vinegar, water sugar, salt and chili.
  Let it cool.
  
  Pound the peanuts and add to the cooled mixture. Lastly, add the
  cucumber.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yellow Curry Paste (Thai)
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Coriander seeds
      8    Dried chilies
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
      1 tb Chopped lemon grass
      2 tb Chopped shallots
      1 tb Chopped garlic
      1 tb Yellow curry powder
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephen Ceideburg Originally from:
  "Discover Thai Cooking".Pierre Chaslin, Piyatep Canungmai, Luca
  Invernizzi Tettoni, Times Editions, Singapore, 1987 Here's the recipe
  for the paste if you want to go to the effort: Yellow Curry Paste
  Place the cumin and coriander seeds in a pan without adding any oil.
  Dry fry them, stirring, over medium heat for 1 to 2 minutes until
  they are slightly browned, and give off a roasted aroma.
  
  Coarsely chop the chilies and soak in water for 10 minutes. Drain.
  Pound all the ingredients together to produce a fine paste which goes
  well with beef and pork.
  
  You can work out your frustrations pounding the spice mix in a mortar
  and pestle or you can use a food processor if you're feeling
  particularly harmonious... Make a lot of the paste and save it for
  use in other curries.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Shrimp Salad
 Categories: Salad, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Large fresh shrimp
      1    Celery stalk, thinly sliced
           On the bias
  1 1/2 tb Thai fish sauce (nam pla)
  1 1/2 tb Fresh lime juice
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Chili oil
      2 ts Good quality peanut oil
      2    Tiny fresh Thai "bird"
           Chiles (red or green),
           Chopped, seeds
      3 c  Cloves, minced
     10 ts Leaves, chopped
      2 tb Fresh coriander leaves
      1    Cucumber, peeled, seeded,
           Sliced
           Pinch of salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephen Ceideburg This is a nice, light
  but spicy salad, typical of a lot of Thai dishes. THAI SHRIMP SALAD
  Shell and devein the shrimp, and cut in half lengthwise. Parboil the
  shrimp and celery slices for 20 seconds. Drain, and rinse under cold
  water to stop the cooking; set aside on paper towels to drain.
  
  Combine the fish sauce, lime juice, suigar and slat in a small bowl.
  Stir in the oils, chile peppers and garlic and set aside. Set aside
  the scallions, mint leaves and coriander.
  
  Arange the cucumber slices on a small platter. Toss the shrimp and
  celery with the sauce, and stir in the scallions, mint and coriander.
  Allow to set for 5 to 10 minutes, toss again, arrange over the
  cucumber slices and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Curry Paste (Thai)
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Coriander seeds
      6    Fresh green chilies,
           Chopped
      1 tb Chopped lemon grass
      1 ts Chopped coriander root
      1 tb Chopped shallots
      1 tb Chopped garlic
      1 ts Chopped galangal
      7    Peppercorns
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Shrimp paste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephen Ceideburg Originally from:
  "Discover Thai Cooking" by Chaslin, Canungmai and Tettoni, Times
  Editions, Singapore. 1987 This is easy to make. Make lots and freeze
  it for future use. If you're not a fan of pounding you can use a food
  processor. Just don't overdo the processing. Green Curry Paste (Nam
  Prik Kaeng Khiew Wah) Place the cumin and coriander seeds in a pan,
  without adding any oil. Dry-fry them, stirring, for 1-2 minutes until
  they are aromatic and slightly browned. Pound them with the remaining
  ingredients to produce a fine paste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Custard (Thai)
 Categories: Thai, Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5    Eggs
      1 c  Coconut cream (the thick,
           Top part of a can of canned
           Coconut milk
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Stephen Ceideburg Originally from:
  "Discover Thai Cooking" by Chaslin, Canungmai and Tettoni, Times
  Editions, Singapore. 1987 Here's a simple Thai recipe for coconut
  custard. Coconut Custard (Sang Khaya) milk) Beat the eggs with the
  coconut cream and sugar until the mixture is frothy.
  
  Pour the liquid into small molds or ramekins. Place in a steamer over
  boiling water, cover and cook for about 20 minutes or until the
  mixture has set.
  
  If you want something a bit fancier, I have a Vietnamese recipe for
  Coconut Flan. Be glad to post it if you're interested...
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Angel Food
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Angelfood cake
           Raspberries
           Raspberry juice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Lisa Zech Raspberry Angel Food First you
  will need to buy angel food cake! Then buy some rasberrys that are in
  the process of jucieness. Put them on a straight plate with no curves
  at the side. Mash them down. After you mash them down, put them on
  the cake. Then buy some rasberry juice. You put that in a bowl. Then
  you get whole berries and put them in the juice. Stir around, but try
  not to kill the rasberries (all of them.) Then put that on the cake
  and put all the types of fruit you want!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Fry Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Powdered milk
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Lard or shortening
    3/4 c  Warm water
           Oil for frying
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Tia Darrow Originally from: "Simply
  Simpatico" put out by the Junior League of Albuquerque Indian Fry
  Bread Mix dry ingredients. Cut in 1 tblsp. lard (or shortening) until
  crumbly. Add water and mix until a soft dough forms. Knead until
  dough is smooth and springy in texture. Make into 12 balls. Melt 1
  tblsp. lard (or shortening) and brush on each ball of dough. Set
  aside for 30 ea 0-45 minutes. On a lightly floured surface roll ball
  to 4" circle. Then stretch to 7-8" in diameter. Poke a hole in
  center. Fry in oil at 365 ea 65 degrees until lightly browned,
  turning once. Serve with butter and honey...
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingered Watermellon Rind
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Melon rind
  1 1/2 lb Sugar
      1 oz Ground ginger
      2    Lemon
 
  Originally from: "The Progressive Farmer's Southern Cookbook" GINGERED
  WATERMELON RIND 1. Make ginger tea - ginger in 1 quart of water. 2.
  Pare off outer green skin of watermelon. Cut into 1/2 or 1 inch
  cubes. 3. Soak melon in lime water for 3 + 1/2 hours 2 quarts water
  and 2 Tbls. lime). Drain. Soak in clear water for 1 hour. Drain,
  again. 4. Cover with water and boil rapidly for 15 minutes in strong
  ginger
    tea. 5. Finish cooking in a syrup made by using 2 pints of the
  ginger tea
    with 2 pints of water and 1-1/2 lb. of sugar. 6. Cook rapidly until
  tender and transparent [about 1 hour]. 7. Add thinly sliced lemon
  after about 30 minutes. 8. When transparent, cool, pack and process.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Watermellon Rind Preserves
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Watermelon cubes
      2 ts Water
      2 tb Lime (calcium oxide)
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Water
    1/2    Lemon, sliced
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Merrilyn Vaughan WATERMELON RIND
  PRESERVES 1. Soak melon in limewater for 3+ 1/2 hours. Drain. 2. Soak
  in clear water for 1 hour. Drain. 3. Cover with water and boil for 1+
  1/2 hour. Drain. 4. Make syrup fo2 c. sugar and 1 quart water. 5. Add
  rind and boil for 1 hour. 6. As syrup thickens add lemon [half ob.
  for each lb. of melon]. 7. When syrup is thick and rind clear, pack
  in hot, sterilized jars,
    top with syrup and seal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chipped Beef
 Categories: Breakfast
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Jar of Dried Beef, chopped
           Small
      2    Hard boiled eggs, chopped
      2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
           Pepper to taste (usually
           The salted meat is
           Sufficient for salt)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Paul Lang
  
  Make a white sauce by melting the butter in a double boiler, stirring
  in the flour and adding the milk gradually. Cook, stirring constantly
  to the thickened sauce. Add pepper and check for salt. Adjust if
  necessary. We like it served over toasted English Muffins. This will
  make enough sauce for about 6-8 muffin halves, depending on how
  generous you are with the sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Vinaigrette
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Artichokes, trimmed
      6 tb Finely chopped onion
      6 tb Dry vermouth
      6 tb Extra virgin olive oil
           Boiling salted water
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper
      1 c  Dry white wine
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 c  Cloves, minced
      1    Vinaigrette Sauce
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass Originally from: "The Best
  of Bon Appetit Cookbook", Knapp Press, 1979 ARTICHOKE VINAIGRETTE In
  6-quart pan cook artichokes, uncovered, in boiling salted water for 5
  minutes. Drain. Place artichokes in roaster or other large pan so
  they stand upright. Separate leaves of artichokes and fill with
  vermouth mixture.
  
  Combine white wine, 1/4 cup olive oil and garlic. Pour into bottom of
  pan. Cover tightly and cook over low heat 25 to 35 minutes. Remove
  artichokes from broth and serve hot or cold with Vinaigrette Sauce
  
  Servings: 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vinaigrette Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Red wine vinegar or lemon
           Juice
    2/3 c  Salad oil
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 tb Minced parsley
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass Originally from: "The Best
  of Bon Appetit Cookbook", Knapp Press, 1979 VINAIGRETTE SAUCE Combine
  all ingredients and blend thoroughly with whisk. (May be made in
  advance and stored in refrigerator until ready to use.)
  
  Makes about 1 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pat Boutonnet's Artichoke Sunflower
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Artichoke, cleaned,
           Trimmed and cooked
     13 oz Package cream cheese
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Hot pepper seasoning
      2 tb Milk or cream (approx.)
    1/4 lb Small cooked shrimp
           Paprika
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass Originally from: "The Best
  of Bon Appetit Cookbook", Knapp Press, 1979 PAT BOUTONNET'S ARTICHOKE
  SUNFLOWER
  
  Remove all leaves from artichoke. Set aside those that are firm
  enough to handle and have a good edible portion on ends. Cut heart
  into quarters.
  
  Blend cream cheese with garlic and onion powders, hot pepper
  seasoning and enough milk or cream to make a smooth paste. Adjust
  seasoning. Spread filling on tip of each reserved leaf. Place small
  shrimp on top of filling and dust with paprika. Arrange leaves in
  concentric circles on a round tray to resemble open sunflower. Place
  cut artichoke heart in center of leaves.
  
  Servings: 4 to 6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sauce for Cooked Artichokes
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  (2 sticks) melted butter
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
 
  Hope you all like these, and hope you can use them, Stephen.
  Contributed to the echo by: Michelle Bass Originally from: "The Best
  of Bon Appetit Cookbook", Knapp Press, 1979 BUTTER SAUCE FOR COOKED
  ARTICHOKES Combine all ingredients and simmer 5 minutes. Serve warm
  as dipping sauce with hot artichokes.
  
  Servings: 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dutch Almond Bars
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 50 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1    Egg yolk
      1 c  Cake flour, sifted
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Almond paste or filling
      2    Egg yolks
    1/2    Lemon - juice of
      3    Egg whites, stiffly beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Coconut, flaked
      1    Egg
      1    13 x  9" x 2" pan.
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: Pink
  Parsley, Rockford Memorial Hospital Auxiliary (Rockford, IL) Dutch
  Almond Bars Bake at 400 degrees for 10 minutes. Mix sugar, plus one
  egg yolk and cake flour. Beat until well blended. Spread in a almond
  paste or filling, 2 egg yolks and lemon juice in electric mixer until
  blended. Fold in egg whites and vanilla. Spread over baked crust and
  sprinkle flaked coconut over top. Bake at 325 degrees for 30 minutes.
  Cool and cut into bars.
  
  Makes 50
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saganaki
 Categories: Greek, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 lb Kasseri cheese
      4 tb Butter
    1/2    Lemon, juice of
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: "Greek
  Cooking for the Gods", by Eva Zane Saganaki This is also known as
  Kasseri Tiganismeno, squares of this buttery cheese fried in butter.
  Cut the cheese in 1/4 inch slices, cut in squares, and fry in hot
  butter until golden. Serve with a squeeze of lemon.
  
  Servings: 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Vinegar
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Black peppercorns, coarsely
           Crushed
      4    Jalapeno peppers, quartered
      2    Garlic cloves, lightly
           Crushed
      1    Wine bottle and cork.
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: "The
  Ultimate Salad Dressing Book", by Claire Stancer Cajun Vinegar In a
  medium-sized enameled (non-metallic) pan, bring vinegar, peppercorns,
  jalapeno peppers, and garlic just to a boil. Pour into a crock or jar
  and let steep for 6 days. Strain through a cheesecloth and discard
  flavorings. Pour strained vinegar into a clean, dry wine bottle and
  cork. Store in a cool, dark place.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Vinegars
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts White wine vinegar
      2 c  Fresh fruit ***
      2    Piece of lemon rind
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: "The
  Ultimate Salad Dressing Book", by Claire Stancer Fruit Vinegars In a
  medium-sized enameled (non-metallic) saucepan, bring vinegar, fruit,
  and lemon rind just to a boil. Pour into a crock or jar and let steep
  covered for 3 to 5 days. Strain through a cheesecloth, discarding
  fruit. Place a small amount of fresh fruit in the bottom of a clean,
  dry 1-quart wine bottle. Cork and store in a cool, dark place.
  
  *** Suggested fruits for this vinegar are raspberries, pears,
  strawberries, or black currants.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Vinegar
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Vinegar- cider, malt, red
           Or white wine
      1 ts Black peppercorns
     10 c  Cloves, crushed
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sallie Austin Originally from: "The
  Ultimate Salad Dressing Book", by Claire Stancer Garlic Vinegar In a
  medium sized enameled (non-metallic) saucepan, bring vinegar to a
  boil over medium heat. Meanwhile, coarsely crush peppercorns with the
  bottom of a heavy saucepan. Place in a glass or other non-metallic
  jar. Add garlic. Pour in hot vinegar. Let steep for 7 days. Strain
  through cheesecloth and pour into a clean 1-quart wine bottle. Cork
  and store in a cool, dark place. Keeps 1 year.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Red Pepper & Chive Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 cl Garlic medium, minced
      1 c  Olive oil
    1/3 c  Finely chopped fresh chives
        ts Red pepper, medium *OR*
    1/2 c  Prepared roasted red
           Peppers
           Salt
           White pepper, freshly
           Ground
           Salt
           Pepper, to taste
 
  Originally from: "The Ultimate Salad Dressing Book", by Claire Stancer
  Roasted Red Pepper and Chive Dressing Hold red pepper over a flame,
  turning it until evenly charred. Or cut it in half, rub with oil, and
  place under the broiler until blackened. Wrap in a plastic bag and
  set aside to cool. Scrape off the burned skin and remove seeds and
  stem. In bowl of blender or food processor fitted with a steel blade,
  place red pepper, vinegar, and garlic. Process until pepper is
  pureed. With machine running, slowly drizzle
  
  This recipe, featured at Neiman-Marcus, is from caterer George Dolese.
  George serves this dressing over a salad of fusili pasta, chunks of
  fresh mozzarella, julienned zucchini and prosciutto, sliced smoked
  chicken, and blanched asparagus.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: San Jacinto Pork Fajitas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Pork
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      4 lb Pork loin, cut into 2 inch
           Strips

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      2    Onions, sliced fine
      2 tb Diced garlic
           Juice of 4 limes
      2    Bottles of dark beer
      1 c  Red wine vinegar
      2    Jalapenos, diced
      1 tb Dried Thyme
      1 tb Dried oregano
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
           Salt and pepper
           Diced cilantro

MMMMM------------------------FOR COOKING-----------------------------
      1    Oil
           Red and yellow bell
           Peppers, julienned
 
  Originally from: "Austin American-Stateman, May 24, 1990 San Jacinto
  Pork Fajitas
  
  Marinate the meat for at least 18-24 hours in covered container. Then
  drain and sear meat in very hot pan with a little olive oil. Add red
  and yellow peppers. Cook until done, about 4 to 6 minutes. Serve in
  flour tortillas with toppings of choice. (Suggestions: honey-mustard
  sour cream, pickled cabbage, tomato cumin salsa.) Serves 20. Recipe
  can be halved.
  
  From the Four Seasons Hotel.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sizzling Beef Fajitas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 cl Garlic, minced
      1 tb Lime juice
    1/3 c  Worcestershire or soy sauce
      4    Serrano chilles, stemmed
           And minced
    1/4 c  Apple cider vinegar
     14 cn Beef broth
      2 tb Safflower oil
      2    Yellow or white onions,
           Thinly sliced
      2    Bell peppers, thinly sliced
      4    Limes, cut in half
      1 c  Sour cream
      3 lb Skirt steak, 1/2 inch thick

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
           Flour tortillas
           Pico de gallo
           Guacamole
 
  Originally from: "Austin American=Stateman, May 24, 1990 Sizzling Beef
  Fajitas
  
  At least 3 hours before grilling the meat, trim it to remove all fat
  and gristle. For skirt steak, use a flat metal pounder to tenderize.
  {This is needed because of the short marinading time.} Put the meat
  in a shallow glass dish or plastic bag. Combine the marinade
  ingredients. Marinate for about 3 hours in refrigerator.
  
  About 45 minutes before serving, clean the grill surface and rub it
  with an oil dampened cloth. Preheat the grill for about 30 minutes.
  Remove the meat from the marinade. Sprinkle the meat and salt and
  pepper and place it on the grill. Baste with marinade, grill, then
  turn, baste again and grill until medium rare, about 5-6 minutes in
  all, or until desired doneness. Remove, cover with foil and keep warm.
  
  Heat 2 TBSP oil in a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat. Add the
  onions and cook until browned, but still crisp. Remove and add bell
  peppers. Saute about 2 minutes and add onions. Remove the skillet
  from the heat.
  
  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Wrap the tortillas or pita breads
  in foil and heat until warm, 8-10 minutes. {Or zap 'em in a microwave
  for 15 to 25 seconds per tortilla, depending on your microwaves
  strength. Or grill 'em on the coals for a few seconds, or in another
  cast iron skillet for a few seconds.}
  
  Cut the beef across the grain into strips about 1/4 inch thick.
  Reserve all the juices. Put the skillet back on high heat long enough
  to get hot, then add the meat. It will sizzle. Turn immediately, then
  put the onions and peppers on top. Pour the reserved juices on top to
  create a sizzle. (For an even more dramatic sizzle, you can drizzle
  the meat and onions with 2 TBSP oil instead of the reserved juices.)
  Carry the skillet immediately to the table. Sqeeze lime juice on top.
  To serve, use tortillas to enclose meat strips, peppers, onions, pico
  de gallo, guacamole, and sour cream.
  
  Makes 8 servings.
  
  From "Foods of the Sun"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pico De Gallo
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Tomato, chopped
      1    Onion, chopped
      5    Cilantro sprigs, chopped
      1    Jalapeno pepper, chopped
      1    Lemon, cut in half
           Salt, to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Mike Avery Originally from: "Austin
  American-Stateman, May 24, 1990 Pico De Gallo
  
  Mix tomato, onion, cilantro, and jalapeno in a serving dish. Squeeze
  lemon juice over mixture and add salt to taste and serve. From
  "Fajita Festival."
  
  {Lime juice may be used instead of lemon, depending on what's
  available and in season.}
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 10-Minute German Sweet Choc. Cream Pie
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz Package German sweet
           Chocolate,
    1/3 c  Milk,
      2 tb Sugar,
      3 oz Package cream cheese,
           Softened,
  3 1/2 c  Whipped topping, thawed
      1    8-inch graham cracker pie
           Crust.
 
  Originally from: "Austin American-Stateman, May 24, 1990 Heat
  chocolate and 2 TBSP of the milk in saucepan in saucepan over low
  heat, stirring until chocolate is melted. Beat sugar into cream
  cheese; add remaining milk and chocolate mixture and beat until
  smooth. Fold in whipped topping, blending until smooth. Spoon into
  crust. Freeze until firm, about 4 hours. Garnish with chocolate
  curls, if desired.
  
  Recipe submitted by Abagail Willis.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Bonbons
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Package dried apricots,
           Finely chopped
     14 oz Package flaked coconut
     14 cn Sweetened condensed milk
     12 oz Package white coating
           Chocolate for dipping
 
  Originally from: "Austin American-Stateman, May 24, 1990 Apricot
  Bonbons Combine apricots, coconut, and milk in a large bowl. Cover
  and refrigerate at least 4 hours, or overnight. Shape mixture into
  small balls, place onto wax paper and refrigerate. Melt chocolate
  over boiling water, stirring frequently. Using forks or toothpicks,
  dip balls into chocolate. Place on wax paper again and refrigerate
  until firm.
  
  Recipe submitted to the paper by Rosemary Striegler of Bastrop.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Bell Peppers
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Potatoes, peeled, cooked,
           And drained
      6    Fat, red or green bell
           Peppers
      6 tb Margarine
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Mustard seed
    1/2 ts Ground turmeric or curry
           Powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 ts Lemon juice
           Pepper, to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Mike Avery Originally from: "Austin
  American-Stateman", May 1990 Pepper Shells With Potatoes Dice
  potatoes into 1/2 inch cubes. Cut off top of each pepper to make
  shells about 2 inches high. Remove seeds, keeping shells intact. Then
  tops; set aside. Par-boil shells in boiling salted water for 3
  minutes and turn upside down to drain.
  
  In a large frying pan, melt margarine over medium-high heat. Add
  onion, potatoes, and chopped pepper; cook, turning until golden brown
  (about 8 to 10 minutes). Add coriander, cumin, mustard seeds,
  turmeric, salt and pepper during the last few minutes. Remove from
  heat and sprinkle with lemon juice.
  
  Arrange shells in a shallow, greased, baking dish. Pile potatoes into
  shells. Bake uncovered in a 350 degree F. oven 20 minutes.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corned Beef, Cabbage & Peppers
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 md Cabbage head
      1    White or yellow onion
      2    Red bell peppers
      3 c  Corned beef cut in 4-in
           Strips
      1 ts Pepper
      4    Drops Tabasco
      2 ts Soy sauce
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Mike Avery Originally from: "Austin
  American-Stateman", May 1990 Corned Beef, Cabbage, and Peppers Cut
  cabbage into wedges about 1 inch wide. Slice onion into rings. Remove
  stems and seeds from the peppers, and slice the peppers into Cut
  corned beef in thin slices. Using a Dutch oven or other heavy pan,
  arrange 1/2 of the sliced cabbage on the bottom; top with half the
  onions, peppers, and beef slices. Repeat layers using remaining
  cabbage, onion, pepper, and beef. Combine the water, hot pepper
  seasoning, soy sauce, vinegar, and sugar; pour over food in pan.
  Cover, bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer gently until tender
  (about 30 minutes). Serve in wide soup bowls or deep plates.
  
  Makes 6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: All-Season Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
      2 ts Soda
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      3    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
      1 cn Crushed pineapple
      2 c  Prepared fruit or
           Vegetable, as below
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON ALL-SEASON BREAD Apple Bread:
  Shred two peeled, cored apples to make 2 cups. Carrot Bread: Peel and
  shred 2 carrots to make 2 cups. Stir in 1 T.
   reserved pineapple juice.
  
  Sweet Potato Bread: Peel and shred 1 sweet potato to make 2 cups. Stir
      in 1 T. of reserved pineapple juice.
  
  Zucchini Bread: Shred 2 zucchini to make 2 cups.
  
  Combine first six ingredients and set aside. Beat eggs and add next 3
  ingredients. Beat until creamy. Drain pineapple and reserve 1 T. if
  called for. Stir in pineapple and prepared fruit or vegetable. Stir
  in dry ingredients just until moistened. Spoon into 2 greased and
  floured 5x3 loaf pans. Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour or until
  toothpick comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes before removing.
  
  Other pans: Two 6-cup Bundt pans take 45 minutes. Two shortening cans
  take 1 hour and 15 minutes. Two 7x3-1/2x2 pans take 45 to 50 minutes.
  Eight 4-1/2x2-1/2x1-1/2 pans take about 30 to 35 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Andouille Smoked Sausage in Red Gravy
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Chopped green peppers
  1 1/2 lb Andouille smoked sausage
           (2-inch pieces)
      1 ts Minced garlic
      8 ts Tomato sauce
      3 c  Onions
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
  6 1/2 c  Pork or beef stock
      1 c  Chopped green onion tops
  1 1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      3 ts Cooked rice
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON ANDOUILLE SMOKED SAUSAGE IN RED
  GRAVY Melt butter in Dutch oven. Add sausage, cover, and cook without
  stirring about 7 minutes. Turn over and sprinkle 2 c. of onions on
  top. Cover and cook another 7 minutes. Should be dark brown sediment
  on pan bottom. Add 3/4 c. of stock and scrape bottom.
  
  Add pepper and salt, stirring, scraping, and turning. Cover and cook 2
  minutes, scraping once. Add celery, green peppers and garlic. Cover
  and cook 3 minutes, scraping once. Add tomato sauce and cook
  uncovered 5 minutes, scrapping occasionally.
  
  Add 1/2 c. onions. Cook 8 minutes until large puddles of oil have
  broken out and tomato mixture is thick. Stir only if sticking. Add
  parsley and 1/2 c. of the green onions. Add 3-1/4 c. more stock and
  scrape. Cook 20 minutes until liquid is thick dark red gravy. Stir
  occasionally.
  
  Stir in remaining stock and onions. Bring to boil, reduce heat, and
  simmer, stirring frequently, about 14 minutes, until gravy is
  noticeably thicker but still juicy. Remove from heat and serve
  immediately.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbequed Beef Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Beef short ribs
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      1 tb Margarine
    1/2 ts Pepper
      4 ts Sugar
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Paprika
      4 ts Worchestershire sauce
    1/2 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  White vinegar
    1/4 c  Water
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON BARBEQUED BEEF RIBS Brown ribs.
  Saute onions in margarine and add remaining ingredients. Simmer 30
  minutes. Baste ribs with sauce and bake at 350 degrees for 2 hours.
  Drain off fat, baste again and bake at 300 degrees for 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Tomatos, chunked
      2 lb Stew meat
      2 c  Beef broth
      1 ts Worchestershire sauce
      1    Crushed garlic clove
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Paprika
      1    Chopped onion
      1    Stalk celery, chunked
      2 ts Kitchen bouquet
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON BEEF STEW Combine all
  ingredients in slow cooker and cook on low 10 to 12 hours or on high
  for 4 to 5 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Corn syrup
      5 oz Soy sauce
     30    Chicken wings
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON CHICKEN WINGS Simmer first 3
  ingredients for 30 minutes. Cut wings in half and arrange in 9 x 13
  pan. Pour sauce over and bake covered at 250 degrees for 1-1/2 hours.
  Uncover and bake another 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate White Treasure Brownies
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Butter
      2 tb Water
      6 oz (1 c.) semi-sweet chocolate
           Chips OR
      6 oz (3 bars.) baking bars
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
     10 oz (1-1/2 c.) white treasures
           Baking pieces
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON CHOCOLATE WHITE TREASURE
  BROWNIES Bring sugar, butter and water to a boil and remove from
  heat. Add semi-sweet chocolate and vanilla. Stir until chocolate
  melts and mixture is smooth. Add eggs one at a time and beat well
  after each. Blend in dry ingredients. Stir in Treasures. Spread into
  greased 9 ea -inch pan. Bake at 325 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes.
  Cool and cut.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cumin Baked Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Ground cumin
      2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 lb Chicken, cut up
      1    Sliced lemon
      1 c  Unpitted green olives
           (preferably Mediterr.)
      3 tb Olive oil
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON CUMIN BAKED CHICKEN Combine
  first 5 ingredients and set aside. Place chicken snugly in shallow
  baking dish. Rub 3/4 of spices under skin, and rub remainder over
  top. (Can refrigerate at this point for up to 24 hours.) Squeeze
  lemon juice over chicken, scatter olives over, and drizzle with oil.
  Bake uncovered at 400 degrees for 50 to 60 minutes. Baste with pan
  juices occasionally. Serve with sliced lemons.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Com Yam Gung (Thai Shrimp Soup)
 Categories: Thai, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Peppercorns
      8    Coriander roots
      3    Stalks lemon grass
      4 c  Fish stock
      3    Slices siamese ginger
      2 c  Uncooked shrimp
      3 tb Lime juice
      3 tb Fish suace (nam pla)
      5    Red chilies (prik khee nu),
           Minced
      2 tb Chopped coriander
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON DOM YAM GUNG (THAI SHRIMP SOUP)
  Puree peppercorns and coriander roots. Trim root and tough layers from
  lemon grass. Thinly slice first six inches. Bring 2 c. of stock to
  boil. Add coriander paste and simmer while adding lemon grass, ginger
  and shrimp. Stir in remaining stock and bring to boil. Season with
  lime juice, fish sauce and chilies. Sprinkle servings with chopped
  coriander.
  
  Makes 5-1/2 cups, 4 to 5 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Lasagna
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
     32 oz Spaghetti sauce
      1 tb Parsley flakes
      1 ts Oregano
      3 c  Bisquick
      1 c  Creamed cottage cheese
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 tb Parsley flakes
      1 ts Basil
      1 c  Shredded zucchini
      1 c  Shredded mozzarella
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON EASY LASAGNA Cook beef and
  onion. Drain, add spaghetti sauce, parsley and oregano. Bring to
  boil, stirring, and keep warm over low heat. Mix remaining
  ingredients except zucchini and mozzarella. Beat 20 strokes. Spread
  half of dough in ungreased 19 x 9 pan. Sprinkle half of zucchini and
  half of meat over dough. Top with half of mozzarella. Drop remaining
  dough by teaspoonfuls. Repeat with remaining zucchini, meat and
  cheese. Bake until dark golden brown at 375 degrees for 30 to 35
  minutes. Let stand 10 minutes before cutting.
  
  Makes 15 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Enchiladas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Ricotta
      1    Egg
      1 c  Green onions
      2 tb Chopped chilies
      1 ts Cumin
      1 c  Jack cheese
      8    Tortillas
     10 oz Enchilada sauce
      2 c  Cheddar cheese
      1    8 x 12in. glass pan
 
  Contributed to the echo by: BOYD NARON ENCHILADAS Stir first six
  ingredients together and fill tortillas. Put in greased 8 x 12 glass
  pan. Pour sauce over. Microwave on high for 11 to 13 minutes,
  rotating once. Cover with cheddar cheese and cook on high 1 to 2
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Peppers and Apples
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Peppers
      3    Apples
      2 tb Oil
      1 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Rosemary leaves crushed
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
 
  Cut apples and peppers in wedges and toss them with all ingredients.
  Broil or grill the tossed apples and peppers 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miniature Seafood Quiches
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
      2 c  Flour
      3 c  Lard
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vinegar
      4 tb Cold water

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Chopped cokked shrimp
    1/4 c  Fine sliced green onions
      1 c  (4-oz) shred swiss cheese
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2    Eggs
 
  CRUST: Combine flour and salt. With a pastry blender, cut in lard
  until mixture resembles peas. Add vinegar and water and cut in until
  well blended. Roll out on lightly floured surface and cut to fit mini
  muffin pans. Line pans and fill with quiche mixture. MIXTURE: Fill
  each tartlet with shrimp, onion and cheese, pulverizedin processor,
  about 3/4 full. Beat together the mayonnaise, eggs, milk, salt and
  dill and pour over the tartlets, dividing evenly. Bake quiches in an
  oven preheated to 400 degrees for 15-20 minutes, or until tops are
  puffy and golden brown. Makes 24 miniature appetizers or 12 cupcake
  size.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Crackers
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Oil, Crisco, Wesson, etc
      1 pk Hidden Valley Ranch dry
           Dressing
      1 ts Dill weed
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
      1 ts Lemon and pepper
           Seasoning
      2    Bags small oyster crackers
 
  Add 2 bags of oyster crackers, small ones to rest of ingredients. Mix
  well. Spread on cookie sheets to dry, approximately 2 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Mint Cup
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn #2.5 (3 1/2-cup) pineapple
           Chunks
      1 c  Halved and seeded tokay
           Grapes
    1/2 c  White cream mints broken
           Chilled ginger ale
 
  Drain pineapple; combine with grapes and mints. Chill. SPoon into
  sherberts, pour ginger ale over all.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prosciutto and Melon
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Ripe cantaloupe sliced or
           Cubed and peeled
      4 oz Thin sliced prosciutto
 
  For a sit down first course, put 2-3 thin slices of peeled melon on
  each plate and drape 2-3 slices of prosciutto over them. For finger
  food, cut melon in cubes and wrap prosciutto around them, holding in
  place with a toothpick.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seviche
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh scallops
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Lime juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      6    Drops Tabasco sauce
      1 ts Ground coriander
      2 md Tomatos diced into 1 inch
           Pieces
      1    Green pepper diced in 1
           Inch cubes
    1/2    Dried onion
      1 tb Minced garlic
 
  In glass bowl combine scallops, lemon and lime juices, olive oil,
  salt, pepper, tabasco, coriander, tomatos, green pepper, onion and
  garlic. Cover and marinate in refrigerator overnight. The flavor of
  the seviche improves as it marinates and it usually takes two to
  three days. Serve cold for a light luncheon or elegant appetizer. You
  may serve it alone, in a pineapple boat, fresh coconut, or
  hollowed-out orange halves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 5 Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Pinto beans
      1 c  Navy beans
      1 c  Black eyed peas
     10 c  Water
      1 c  Chicken bouillon
      1 c  Diced onion
      1 cn (16-oz) cut tomatos
    3/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Red beans
      1 c  Northern beans
      2    Whole bay leaves
      2 lb Meaty ham bones
  1 1/2 c  Smoked ham
      1 tb Chili powder
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 md Grated carrot
 
  Place beans into 4 quart kettle, cover with 2 inches of water and
  allow to soak overnight. Drain water then add ham bones, water and
  bay leaves. Simmer covered for 2 hours. Remove ham bones and return
  any meat to kettle. Add bouillon, onions, chili and garlic powder,
  thyme, pepper, tomatos, carrot and worcestershire sauce. Cover and
  simmer for 1 hour. Add water as needed. Serve with hot cornbread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Asparagus, cut diag 1"
           Pieces
      1 cl Pressed garlic
      3    Sliced leeks
      4    Chopped thinly green
           Onions
      3 tb Butter
      1    Chopped small red potato
      4 c  Water
      1    Vegetable, beef, chicken
           Cube
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 c  Cream
      2 tb Tarragon
      2 tb Basil
 
   Saute vegetables in butter for 5 minutes. Add water and bouillon
  cube; simemr 5 minutes. Add remaining ingredients and simmer 10
  minutes more. Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh asparagus washed and
           Tough/dry ends removed
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) unsalted
           Butter
      1 c  Carefully washed and chop
           Leeks white part only
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 sm Baking potato (about 1/2
           Lb) peeled and cubed
  3 1/2 c  Chicken stock
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Paprika, optional
    1/2 c  Half-and-half
           Creme fraiche/whipped cream
           For garnish
 
  Snap off asparagus tips and set the stalks aside. Melt butter in a
  deep skillet with a cover. Add asparagus tips, onion, leeks, celery
  and potato. Cover lightly and cook over the very lowest heat until
  vegetables are soft, 20 minutes or more. Meanwhile, place chicken
  stock in a large saucepan with the reserved asparagus stalks, cut
  into large pieces. Bring to a boil and simmer, covered tightly, for
  about 30 minutes. Discard stalks and set stock aside. In a food
  processor, puree softened vegetables and add to the asparagus stock.
  Season with lemon juice, salt, white pepper and paprika, if desired.
  Allow to cool and refrigerate. Stir in half-and- half and serve
  garnished with a dollop of creme fraiche or whipped cream and a
  sprinkling of paprika, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Autumn Squash
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 sm Butternut squash
      2    Green apples
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Pinch rosemary
      1    Pinch marjoram
      1 qt Chicken stock
      2    Slices cubed white bread
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Egg yolks
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
 
  Use a small butternut squash, approximately 1 lb unpeeled, cut in
  half and seeded. Green apples should be peeled, cored and chopped.
  Combine squash, apples, onions, herbs, chicken stock, bread cubes,
  salt and pepper in heavy sauce pan. Bring to a boil and simmer
  uncovered 30-45 minutes. Scoop out flesh of squash and discard the
  skins. Return pulp to sauce pan. Puree the bisque in a blender until
  smooth. Return to sauce pan. In a small bowl, beat egg yolks and
  cream together. Beat in a small amount of the hot bisque, then return
  to the saucepan. Heat but do not boil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bacon Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Diced potatoes
      1    Chopped onion
      1 c  Chopped celery
      1    Sliced carrot
      1    Jar (12-oz) bacon pieces
      4 tb Butter/margarine
      1 c  Chicken broth
      2 c  Milk
 
  In 3 quart casserole, combine 1st 7 ingredinets. Cover loosely with
  plastic wrap. Microwave on high 13-15 minutes or until potatoes are
  tender; stirring once. Stir in milk, salt and pepper. Recover. Cook
  at high 8 minutes or until heated through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Baked potatoes
      1 md Chopped onion
      1 tb Chopped green onion
      2 ts Butter
      3 c  Chicken stock
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 c  Half and half
           Sour cream
           Shredded cheedar cheese
           Minced green onions
           Parsley
 
  Peel potatoes. Reserve pulp. In a 2-quart sauce pan., saute onions in
  butter over medium-low heat until soft. Add chicken stock, salt,
  pepper and potato pulp. Stir to blend. Stir in half and half. Heat to
  serving temperature. GArnish bowl with sour cream, and green onions
  or parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean and Beef Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Navy beans
      1 lb Prunes
      1 qt Cut carrots
  1 1/2 qt Cut potatoes
      1 lb Beef stew meat
      1    Onion
           Salt and pepper
     12    Whole cloves
 
  Soak 1 pound navy beans overnight. Cook beans, prunes, beef and
  vegetables separately. Do not drain. Mix all together and simmer
  until the flavors are mixed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Soup From Tuscany
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Dried cannellini beans
      2    Red onions
     10    Sprigs fresh parsley leaves
      1 lg Celery stalk
      2 cl Garlic, peeled
      1 tb Fresh basil
      1 ts Fresh rosemary leaves
           Coarse grained salt
      3    Fresh tomatos OR
      3    Drained canned imported
           Italian tomatos
      1 oz Boiled ham
      1 oz Salt pork
    1/4 c  Plus 8 ts olive oil
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper
    1/2 ts Dried thyme OR
    1/2 ts Tarragon
      1 sm Savoy cabbage, (2 lbs)
      8    Slices coarse Italian bread
 
  Soak the beans overnight in cold water; rinse and drain. Coarsely
  chop one onion, parsley, celery, garlic, basil and rosemary. Place in
  stockpot. Add beans, coarse-grain salt to taste and 5 quarts of cold
  water. Cover and bring to a boil over medium heat, then simmer for
  about 1 1/2 hours. Meanwhile, finely chop the remaining onion, chop
  up the tomatos in a food processor and cut the ham and salt pork into
  small pieces. Heat 1/4 cup of the oil and lightly saute the onion,
  ham and salt pork for about 10 minutes, then add the tomatos. Taste
  for salt and pepper and add the thyme or tarragon. Simmer for about
  10 minutes, then set aside. Clean and wash the cabbage. Cut into
  1/2-inch strips. When the beans have finished cooking, remove about
  half the beans and vegetables with a slotted spoon and puree in a
  food processor. Return the puree to the stockpot and add enough cold
  water to make about 4 quarts liquid and bring to a boil. Add cabbage
  and simmer about 25 minutes, then add tomatos and meat to the
  stockpot and simmer 5 minutes longer. Toast the slices of bread and
  place in each individual soup bowl. Ladle the soup over the bread and
  serve, adding a ts of olive oil to each serving. NOTE: Dried herbs
  may be substituted for fresh using 1/3 to 1/2 ts dried for each Tb
  fresh, or to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef 'n' Barley Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Soup bone - 1/2 meat
      2 tb Fat
      2 qt Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Minced parsley
    1/4 c  Barley
      1 c  Cubed carrot
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      2 c  Cooked tomatos
      1 c  Fresh/frozen peas
 
  Remove meat from the cracked soup bone; cut meat into cubes and brown
  slightly in hot fat. Place meat, soup bone, water, seasonings and
  parsley in soup kettle. Cover tightly and cook slowly 1 hour. Add
  barley and cook 1 hour longer. Cool and skim off excess fat. Remove
  soup bone. Add carrots, onion, celery and tomatos; cook 45 minutes.
  Add fresh peas and cook 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Black beans
    1/2 c  Sunflower oil
    1/2 lb Bacon
    1/2 lb Diced ham
      8    Chopped onions
      7 cl Garlic, minced
      7    Stalks chopped celery
           W/leaves
      3 c  Uncooked brown rice
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      1 tb Vegtable season salt
      4 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 c  White wine
      1 c  Sherry
      6 qt Chicken broth OR
      3    Bouillon cubes and 6 qt of
           Water
 
  Wash black beans, cover with water and allow to soak overnight; rinse;
  drain; set aside. Pour oil into large soup pot. Add bacon, ham, onion,
  garlic and celery. Cook at high simmmer until vegetables are soft,
  about 30 minutes. Add beans, rice, seasonings, and broth to soup pot.
  Bring to boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer 2 1/2-3 hours. Let soup
  cool; put through a blender a little at a time until smooth.Return to
  soup pot; reheat on low about 45 minutes, adding wine andsherry.
  Ladle into bowls.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Black beans
  1 1/2 lb Slab bacon OR
      2    Smoked ham hocks (1 1/2 to
           2 lb)
      8 c  Water
      2 ts Celery salt
      2 c  Chicken/beef broth
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped seeded
           Cored green peppers
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped onions
  1 1/2 tb Finely minced garlic
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 cn (19-oz) tomatos peeled
           Diced with juice (about
           2 1/2 cups)
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Finely chopped fresh
           Coriander optional
      1    Sieved hard cooked egg
 
  Place beans, bacon or ham hocks, water and celery salt in heavy
  kettle. Bring to boil; cover and simmer about 2 1/2 hours or until
  beans are thoroughly tender. Remove bacon or ham hocks; set aside.
  Drain beans and reserve along with meat and cooking liquid. There
  should be about 6 cups of beans and 4 cups of liquid. Add enough
  broth to make 6 cups liquid. Combine the beans with liquid in large
  bowl. Heat oil in heavy kettle; add peppers, onions, garlic and
  cumin. Cook, stirring, until onions are wilted. Add tomatos and
  vinegar. Let simmer about 15 minutes. Meanwhile, remove and discard
  skin from bacon, or skin and bones from ham hocks. Chop ham; set
  aside. Add beam mixture to cooked tomato mixture. Add chopped meat
  and coriander. Simmer until thoroughly heated. Serve in soup bowls;
  garnish with sieved hard cooked egg, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Navy Bean Borsch
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Dry navy beans
  2 1/2 lb Lean beef
    1/2 lb Slab bacon
     10 c  Cold water
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      8    Whole peppercorns
      2 cl Garlic
      2 tb Dried parsley
      1    Carrot
      1    Celery stalk
      1 lg Red onion
      1 ts Salt (optional)
      8    Beets for soup
      2 sm Beets
      2 c  Shredded green cabbage
      2 lg Sliced leeks
      3 md Potatoes, cut into 1/8's
      1 cn (1 lb 13 oz) tomatos
      1 tb Tomato paste
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
      4 tb Sugar
      1 lb Kielbasa (optional)
      2 tb Flour
      1 tb Melted butter
 
  Cover beans with water and allow to soak overnight: cook until tender;
  drain; set aside. Place beef, bacon & water in large soup pot;bring
  to a boil. Skim fat from surface. Add bay leaf, peppercorns, garlic,
  parsley, carrot, celery, onion & salt. Cover & simmer over low heat
  for about 1 1/2 hours. Scrub beets for soup & cook in boiling water
  until tender, about 45 minutes; drain and discard water; cool. Peel
  and cut each beet into eights. Scrub small beets; grate; cover with
  water to soak. Remove meat from soup; set aside. Strain soup into
  anothe pot and add cooked beats, cabbage, leeks, potatoes, tomatos,
  tomnato paste, vinegar, sugar, beef & bacon. Bring to a boil and
  simmer 45 minutes. Cut kielbasa into chunks and add with navy beans
  to soup. Simmer 20 minutes more. Mix flour and butter together to
  form paste. Stir into soup to thicken slightly. Strain raw beets,
  saving liquid and discarding beets. Add beet liquid to soup.
  Additional sugar or vinegar may be added for sweeter or more sour
  flavor. Slice meat and arrange in individual soup bowls. Pour hot
  soup with vegetables over meat. Garnish each serving with a dollop of
  sour cream, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Fresh broccoli
    1/4 c  Chopped onions
      1 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Butter/margarine
      3 c  Chiekn broth
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Half-and-half
 
  Rinse broccoli and cut into spears or large pieces. In saucepan, cook
  broccoli in small amount of lightly salted water until just tender.
  Drain. Let stand until cool enough to handle; then finely chop. In
  deep 3 quart saucepan, heat butter/margarine until melted; add onion
  and cook until limp but not brown. BLend if flour. SLowly add broth,
  half-and-half, and milk. Add worcestrshire sauce. Bring soup to a
  boil. Reduce heat. Stir in cheese until melted. Serv immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (48-oz) tomato juice
      3 c  Water
    1/2    Head cabbage shredded
      4    Sliced carrots
      1    Diced onion
      6    Beef bouillon cubes
      1    Bay leaf
 
  In a large pot, combine tomato juice, water, cabbage, carrots, onion,
  bouillon and bay leaf, and simmer for an hour. Remove bay leaf before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Stew meat
      8 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
      5    Whole peppercorns
      2    Bay leaves
      1 cn (16-oz) tomatos cut up OR
      3    Fresh tomatos cut up
      1 cn (16-oz) cut green beans
      2    Sliced medium carrots
      1    Chopped medium onion
    1/2 ts Crushed red pepper
           Optional
      1 sm Head cabbage cored and
           Chopped
 
  In large kettle combine meat, water, salt, oregano, peppercorns and
  bay leaves. Bring to a boil then reduce heat to simmer and simmer 2
  hours. Remove beef when cool enough to handle, cut up meat and
  discard bones if any. Strain broth and skim off excess fat. Return
  broth to kettle. Add cut up meat, tomatos and all vegetables except
  cabbage and red pepper, if desired. Simmer for 30 minutes, then add
  cabbage and simmer for 30 minutes more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Thyme Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Chicken stock
  1 1/2 lb Cut up carrots
      1    Minced onion
    3/4    Stick unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
  1 1/2 tb Fresh minced thyme
           Nutmeg to taste
 
  In a large saucepan combine the stock and the carrots, bring the
  stock to a boil, and simmer the carrots, covered, for 20 minutes, or
  until they are tender. In a food processor fitted with steel blades,
  puree the mixture in batches and force the puree through a food mill
  into another large saucepan. In a small skillet cook the onion in the
  butter over moderate heat, stirring for 3 minutes, or until it is
  softened. Add the onion to the saucepan with the cream, thyme, nutmeg
  and salt and pepper to taste. Bring soup to a boil, and simmer it for
  5 minutes. Let the soup stand, covered, for 5 minutes to let the
  flavors blend, ladle it into a heated tureen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheddar Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Finely diced celery
    1/2 c  Finely diced leeks white
           Part only
    1/2 c  Finely diced carrots
      4 tb All purpose flour
      4 c  Beef broth
      1    Bottle light beer 12 oz
      1 lb Vermont cheddar white
      1 lb New York cheddar orange
           Pinch of cayenne pepper
           Fresh ground black pepper
           Salt to taste
           Fresh chives snipped for
           Garnish
 
  Melt the butter in heavy soup pot. Add the diced celery, leeks and
  carrots; cook, stirring, over low heat for 3 minutes. Add flour and
  cook, stirring, over low heat an additional 2 minutes. Add the broth
  and beer. Bring to a simmer very slowly so vegetables become tender,
  about 15-20 minutes, stirring occasionally. Over low heat, gradually
  add the cheeses, whisking all the time, until smooth. Season with
  cayenne, black pepper and salt. Continue cooking over low heat until
  heated through. Do not boil, or soup will separate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chive Vichyssoise
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Unsalted margarine
      1 md Yellow chopped onion
      1 md Chopped leek
      1 md Chopped stalk celery
      2 md All purpose potatoes
           (about 1/2 lb) peeled and
           Diced
  1 3/4 c  Low salt chicken broth
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1 tb Minced fresh/freeze
           Dried chives
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Hot red pepper sauce
 
  In a large heavy saucepan melt the margarine over moderate heat. Add
  the onion, leek and celery and cook, uncovered, stirring,
  occasionally, until the vegetables are tender, 6-8 minutes> Do not
  brown. Add the potatoes, stir in the chicken broth and bring to a
  boil. Reduce to simmer and cook until the potatoes are tender, about
  20 minutes. In blender or food processor, puree the soup in 2 or 3
  batches, whirling each batch about 30 seconds. Stir in the
  buttermilk, chives, lemon juice and red pepper sauce. Cover the soup
  and refrigerate at least 2 hours before serving. Thin with additional
  cold buttermilk if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chunky Avocado Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pared small cucumber seeded
           And chopped
      1 cn (7-oz) corn kernels drained
      1    Chopped tomato
      1    Seeded and minced jalapeno
           Pepper
      2 tb Chopped cilantro
    1/8 ts Ground cumin
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Avocados (1-lb) pared
           Halved and pitted
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Chicken broth
 
  In 6 cup serving bowl place first 7 ingredients. In food processor,
  rpocess avocados, milk and broth until smooth. Pour into bowl. Press
  plastic wrap against top of soup; chill at least 2 hours. Soup will
  discolor upon exposure to air.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Classic Onion Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lg Thinly sliced sweet onion
      4 tb Butter
      4 cn (14 1/2-oz ea) beef broth
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Dry red wine
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
           Toasted french bread
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      3    Sprig parsley
      1    Bay leaf
 
  In a large pan or in the bottom of a stock pot, saute onions in butter
  until soft and golden, about 15 minutes. Add beef broth, water, wine,
  worcestershire sauce, salt, paprika, pepper, bay leaf and parsley.
  Bring to a boil, then simmer about 1 hour. Remove bay leaf and
  parsley. Pour into ovenproof bowls. Top with slices of toasted bread
  which have been sprinkled with cheese. Set in 450 degreeoven for 10
  minutes, or until cheese is bubbly and melted.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Corn and Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Chicken stock/broth
  1 1/2 c  Peeled, seeded, chopped
           Tomatos
      1 md Chopped onion
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
      1    Pinch sugar
 
  Combine all ingredients in a saucapan and bring to a boil, lower heat
  and simmer, partially covered for 20 minutes. Cool slightly, then
  puree in a blender. You may have to do it in two batches.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Gazpacho
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Diced green pepper
      4    Diced tomatos
      1    Diced onion
      3    Minced garlic cloves
      3 c  Water
    1/4 c  Wine
      3 ts Lemon juice
      1    Diced fine scallion
 
  Puree all ingredients, except scallion, in blender. Add a little more
  water if too spicy. Strain, discarding any vegetable pieces that did
  not puree fully. Chill overnight. Serve in chilled glasses or bowls
  with diced scallion floating on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Frozen whole kernel corn
           Thawed and drained
      2 tb Chopped onion
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Dried oregano
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Shredded carrot
 
   in 2-quart saucepan, over low heat, combine all ingredients except
  carrot. Cook about 5 minutes until sugar is dissolved. Add carrot;
  cool, then chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Brie and Leek Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter
      8 lg Leeks (white parts only)
      4 c  Or more unsalted chicken
           Stock
    1/2 c  All purpose flour
      4 c  Half-and-half
  1 1/2 lb Brie well chilled cut in
           Small cubes without rinds
      2 tb Snipped fresh chives
           Salt and fresh ground
           Pepper
 
  Melt 1/4 cup butter (1/2 stick) in large skillet over medium heat. Add
  leeks and cook until translucent, stirring frequently, about 5
  minutes. Add stock and bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer about 25
  minutes. Puree mixture in batches in blender. Melt remaining butter
  (1/4 cup) in large saucepan over medium heat. Add flour and stir 2
  minutes. Blend in half and half, 1 cup at a time; whisk until smooth.
  Add 1/4 cup cheese and blend until smooth/ Add remaining cheeese, 1/4
  cup at a time; blend until smooth and melted. Mix in leek puree. Thin
  with more stock if desired. Ladle into bowls and garnish with freshly
  ground pepper and chives.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Bunch broccoli
    1/2 c  Butter
    3/4 lb Grated swiss cheese
      1 lb Grated cheddar cheese
      1 c  Ground cashews
      1    Vegetable bouillon cube
    1/8 c  Soy sauce
     16 oz Sour cream
      6 c  Water
 
  Saute broccoli in butter for 10 minutes. Using blender combine all of
  the ingredients together. As blender fills, transfer liquid to soup
  pot and simmer for 20-30 minutes. Good with muffins or corn bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Fresh broccoli OR
      2 pk (10-oz) frozen broccoli
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Chicken flavor instant
           Bouillon OR
      6    Chicken bouillion cubes
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/4 c  Margarine/butter
    1/8 ts Pepper
      3 c  Water
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 c  Light cream/milk
 
  Thaw broccoli, if time allows. In large saucepan combine broccoli,
  onion, water, bouillon, thyme and garlic powder. Bring to boil;
  reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes or until broccoli is tender. Stir
  to break up broccoli. In blender, blend 1/3 mixture at a time, blend
  until smooth. Return to saucepan. Set aside. In medium pan melt
  butter; stir in flour and pepper until smooth. Stir in cream 0- cook
  and stir until thickened. Add to broccoli mixture. Heat thoroughly.
  Do not boil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Broccoli Soup #3
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Butter/margarine
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh onion
      1    Chopped rib celery
  1 1/2 lb Broccoli
      2 c  Beef bouillon
    3/4 c  Light cream
      2 tb Chopped scallions
 
  Melt butter in saucepan; add onion and celery and cook until tender.
  Wash and trim broccoli; cut into small pieces. In a large saucepan,
  add broccoli and bouillon. Bring to a boil; cover and cook over
  medium heat for 20 minutes. Stir in onion and celery. Puree 2-3
  batches in blender or food processor. Return to saucepan, add cream
  and cook 2 minutes until thickened. Garnish with chopped scallions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Mushroom Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh mushrooms
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Chicken flavor instant
           Bouillon OR
      6    Chicken Bouillion cubes
      2 c  Light cream/milk
    1/4 c  Margarine/butter
    1/8 ts Pepper
      3 c  Water
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
 
  In large pan combine mushrooms, onion, water, nutmeg and bouillon.
  Bring to boil; reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes or until mushrooms
  are tender. Stir to break un mushrooms. In blender, blend 1/3 mixture
  at a time, blend until smooth. Return to saucepan. Set aside. In
  medium pan melt butter; stir in flour and pepper until smooth. Stir
  in cream - cook and stir until thickened. Add to broccoli mixture.
  Heat thoroughly. Do not boil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Reduced calorie margarine
      1 lg Thin sliced peeled onion
      1    Chopped carrot
      2 cl Garlic peeled coarsely
           Chopped
      1 cn (28-oz) peeled Italian plum
           Tomatos
      3 c  Defatted chicken broth
      1 sm Boiling potato peeled and
           Thin sliced
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil leaves
           OR
      2 ts Dried basil
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
           Salt to taste
      1 c  Milk
 
  Melt margarine in a soup pot over low heat. Add onion,c arot and
  garlic. Cook, covered, for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally, until
  vegetables are tender and wilted. Crush tomatos in their liquid and
  add to the pot along with chicken broth, potato, basil, nutmeg and
  salt. Cook, covered, over low heat for 40 minutes, stirring
  occasionally. Let cool to room temperature. Puree in a blender, in
  small batches, adding a bit of milk to each batch. Return to soup pot
  and adjust seasonings. Before serving, warn through over very low
  heat. Do not boil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Corn and Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Corn kernels
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 ts Minced garlic
      1 tb Curry powder
      3 tb Flour
      1 lg Cubed tomato
      4 c  Chicken stock
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Plain yogurt
           Chopped chives
 
  Heat the butter in a saucepan and add the onion. Cook until wilted
  then add the garlic. Stir. Add the curry powder and flour. Stir. Add
  the tomato, chicken stock and bay leaf, stirring. Let simmer for 20
  minutes. Pour the soup into the container of a food processor or
  electric blender. Blend as thoroughly as possible. Reheat and add the
  corn. Bring to a boil. Remove from the heat and stir in the yogurt.
  Serve sprinkled with chopped chives.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Minestrone Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Microwave
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Microwave spirals uncooked
  1 2/3 c  (14-oz) ready to serve
           Beef broth
      2 c  Finely chopped vegetables
           Broccoli, cauliflower,
           Tomato etc
      1 c  Hot water
    1/4 ts Dried marjoram leaves
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
           Grated romano cheese opt
 
  In 2 quart microwave safe casserole, combine all ingredients except
  cheese. Cover; microwave at high 11-13 minutes, stirring once, or
  until pasta is tender. Serve in bowls sprinkled with cheese, if
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golden Cream Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
      3 c  Diced potatoes
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 lb Chopped Velveeta cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Parsley flakes
      1    Cube chicken bouillon
           Dash pepper
 
  Add water to potatoes, celery, onions, parsley, seasonings, and
  bouillon cube. Cover and cook till tender. Blend flour and a small
  amount of milk and then stir into the vegetable mixture. Add
  remaining milk and cook until thickened. Add velveeta cheese and stir
  till melted.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham & Potato Cheddar Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Chopped large onion
    1/2 c  Chopped red/green pepper
    1/2 lb Ham diced
      2 tb Margarine
      4 md Potatoes peeled diced
      1 cn (13.75-oz) chicken broth
      1 c  Milk
      1    Container (10.5-oz) cheese
           Snack cold pack product
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
           Parsley
 
  Saute first 3 ingredients in margarine in saucepan. Add potatoes and
  broth. Bring to a boil; reduce heat. COver; simmer 15 minutes or
  until potatoes are tender. Stir in milk, cheese snack, and pepper/
  Cook over low heat until cheese snack is melted and chowder is hot,
  stirring occasionally. Sprinkle with parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Harvest Bowl Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Chopped onion
  1 1/2 c  Thinly sliced carrots
      1 c  Thinly sliced celery
      4 md Minced cloves garlic
      2 ts Dried Italian crushed
           Seasoning
      3 cn (14.5-oz) Swanson Natural
           Goodness 1/3 less salt
           Chicken broth
      3 c  V8 vegetable juice or no
           Salt added V8 vegetable
           Juice
    1/4 lb Green beans cut into
           Pieces
      1    Bay leaf
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 cn (16-oz each) red/white
           Kidney beans rinsed and
           Drained
      2 c  Coarsely chopped yellow
           Squash
 
  In 6 quart dutch oven over medium heat, in hot oil, cook onions,
  carrots and celery with garlic and Italian seasoning until vegetables
  are tender. STir in remaining ingredients except kidney beans and
  squash. Heat to boiling. Reduce heat to very low; simmer 30 minutes.
  Add kidney beans and squash, cook 5 minutes more or until squash is
  tender. Remove bay leaf.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hearty Vegetable Barley Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Lean ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 cl Minced garlic
      7 c  Water
      1 cn (14.5-oz) unsalted whole
           Tomatos undrained cut into
           Pieces
    1/2 c  Medium barley
    1/2 c  Sliced celery
    1/2 c  Sliced carrots
      2    Beef bouillon cubes
    1/2 ts Crushed basil
      1    Bay leaf
      1 pk (9-oz) frozen mixed
           Vegetables
 
  In 4 quart saucepan or dutch oven, brown meat. Add onion and garlic;
  cook until onion is tender. Drain. Stir in remaining ingredients
  except frozen vegetables. Cover, bring to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer
  50-60 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add frozen vegetables; cook
  about 10 minutes or until vegetables are tender. Additional water may
  be added if soup becomes too thick upon standing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb and Egg Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 pt Chicken stock
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Fresh chopped mint
      3 tb Fresh chopped basil
      1 tb Chopped coriander
      2 tb Chopped Italian parsley
      2    Eggs
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Parmesan cheese
 
  Boil the stock. Add the butter, mint, basil, coriander and parsley
  and cook 5 minutes. Beat the eggs with the salt and pepper. POur
  mixture slowly into the boiling broth, mixing with a wire whip so
  that the egg does not coagulate into one lump. The soup will be thick
  and very flavorful. When serving, add parmesan cheese to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Holiday Pumpkin Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Broth
      1    Cube bouillon
      4 lb Fresh pumpkin, peeled,
           Seeded, cooked
      2 c  Water
      2 c  Half & half
      2 tb Molasses
      1 tb Butter
    1/8 ts Ground ginger
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley, chopped
           Chopped mint for garnish
 
  Make broth with bouillon. Cut pumpkin into 1" cubes and place in
  broth. Simmer for 5 minutes, then puree in blender. Return puree to
  heat; add half & half and molasses. Add butter, ginger and nutmeg;
  simmer 10 minutes. Add parsley; simmer 10 minutes more. Serve with
  fresh chopped mint on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Lentil Minestrone Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Dried lentils
     12 c  Divided cold water
      1 cn (6 oz) tomato paste
      3    Minced celery ribs
      1 c  Coarsely chopped cabbage
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1    Chopped onion
      1 ts Italian herbs OR
    1/2 ts Dried oregano and
    1/2 ts Basil
      1 ts Garlic salt
           Pepper to taste
           Pinch of hot pepper flakes
      6 tb Grated parmesan cheese
 
  Soak lentils overnight in 6 cup water; drain, discard water. Combine
  lentils with remaining 6 cup water. Heat to boiling. Stir in remaining
  ingredients, except cheese. Cover and simmer for 45 minutes. Serve
  sprinkled with parmesan cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lebanese Mjderah
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 c  Water
      1 c  Rinsed lentils
      1 c  Uncooked rice not instant
      1 md Onion cut into julienne
           Strips
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Green onions to garnish
    1/2 c  Plain yogurt per person
           Cucumbers peeled seeded and
           Diced
           Minced garlic and dried
           Mint
           Pita bread
 
  Add the water to the lentils and boil for 10 minutes. Add the rice
  and boil 15 minutes more, stirring continuously until rice starts to
  bubble at the top, then stir occasionally. Saute strips of onion in
  olive oil and add to rice and lentils. Salt and pepper to taste and
  simmer an additional 5 minutes. Garnish with green onions and serve
  with cucumbers mixed in yogurt and seasoned to taste, with garlic and
  mint. Accompany with pita bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Leek Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Margarine/butter
      1 c  Chopped leeks white part
      1 ts Chicken stock
    2/3 c  Water
      1 md Potato
      1 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Cream
           Chopped chives for
           Garnishing
 
  Melt butter/margarine in skillet over medium heat. Cook leeks about 5
  minutes. Add chicken stock and 2/3 cup water; bring to a boil and
  reduce heat. Cover and simmer for 10 minutes. Stir in milk, cream and
  boiled potato. Add potato after mashing, or put in blender at low
  speed and add chives as garnish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Leek Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  (1/2 stick) unsalted
           Butter
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 lb Leeks/green onions trimmed
           Well rinsed and thinly
           Sliced
      2 cl Garlic finely chopped
      3 tb All purpose flour
      2 qt Chicken stock preferably
           Homemade heated
           Ground white pepper to
           Taste
           Salt to taste
 
  Heat the butter and oil together in a large casserole or dutch oven.
  Add the leeks and stir to coat. Cover. Cook over low heat for 15
  minutes; the leeks should be very soft. Add the garlic and cook over
  medium heat, uncovered, stirring frequently until the leeks are
  lightly browned, about 15-20 minutes. Sprinkle the flour over the
  leeks; then stir to combine. Cook, stirring, for about 2-3 minutes.
  Slowly stir in hot chicken stock. Simmer, partially covered, for
  about 30 minutes until the flavor develops. Season with the white
  pepper and salt, to taste. Serve in mugs with your favorite crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Pheasant Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      3    Carrots cut into 1/2-in
           Dice
      3    Celery stalks cup into
           1/2-in dice
      1 md Parsnip, peeled cut into
           1/4-in dice
      3 cl Garlic, minced and peeled
      4 c  Defatted canned or fresh
           Made chicken broth
      3 c  Drained crushed canned
           Plum tomatos
      1 c  Dried lentils rinsed well
      2 lb Pheasant/chicken/guinea hen
           Quartered with backbone
      6 tb Italian parsley
      1 tb Chopped fresh rosemary OR
      1 ts Dried rosemary
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
           Fresh ground black pepper
           Salt to taste optional
    3/4 c  Dry sherry
 
  Heat oil and butter in s soup pot. Add carrots, onions, celery,
  parsnip and garlic. Cook, covered, over medium heat for 15 minutes to
  wilt vegetables. Stir once. Add broth, tomatos, lentils, pheasant
  legs and backbone. Simmer, partially covered, for 15 minutes. Add
  pheasant breasts and simmer another 15 minutes. Remove legs and
  breasts; reserve. Leave backbone in. Add 4 Tb parsley, rosemary,
  allspice, pepper and salt.  Stir and simmer, covered, another 20
  minutes. While soup simmers, remove skin from pheasant and shred
  meat. Remove cover from soup, add shredded pheasant, shhery and
  remaining parsley. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pea Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Dry green split peas
      8 c  Water
      2    Stalk celery coarsely
           Chopped (1 cup)
      2 lg Carrots coarsely chopped
           (1 cup)
      1 md Onion coarsely chopped
           (1/2 cup)
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Dried thyme crushed
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Snipped parsley OR
      2 tb Fried parsley flakes
      4 c  Hot cooked brown rice
 
  In a dutch oven combine peas, water, celery, carrots, onion, salt,
  thyme and pepper. Bring to boiling; reduce heat. Simmer, covered, 45
  to 60 minutes or until peas are tender. Add parsley. Simmer,
  uncovered, 45-60 minutes or until thick. Place 1/2 cup hot cooked
  brown rice on top of each serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Root Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lg Leeks white part only
      4 tb Unsalted butter
  2 1/2 tb All purpose flour
      6 c  Homemade chicken stock
      3 md Carrots peeled and cubed
      3 md Turnips peeled and cubed
      2 md Parsnips peeled and cubed
      2 md Red potatoes peeled and
           Cubed
      2    Hearts of bibb lettuce
           Leaves separated and rinsed
      2 c  Fresh spinach leaves
           Stemmed and rinsed
           Salt and white pepper to
           Taste
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Fine minced chives
           And parsley for garnish
 
  Cut the leeks in half lengthwise and then crosswise into thin slices.
  Place in a colander and run under warm water to remove all traces of
  sand. Drain and set aside. In a large casserole, melt the butter over
  low heat. Add the flour and cook, stirring constantly for one minute
  without browning. Add the chicken stock and whisk until well blended.
  Add the reserved leeks, carrots, turnips, parsnips and potatoes.
  Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer until the vegetables are
  almost tender. Add the lettuce and spinach leaves to the soup, and
  season with salt and pepper. The lettuce should just wilt, but still
  remain crisp. Do not overcook. Before serving, add the heavy cream
  and heat the soup through without letting it come to a boil. Transfer
  the soup to a large tureen, sprinkle with chives and parsley and
  serve hot with thin slices of black bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Slim and Savory Spinach Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Chicken broth
      3 md Leeks white part only
           Sliced OR
      3 md Onions chopped
      6 oz Spinach trimmed and chopped
      3 c  Cubed potatoes
      2 tb All natural sour cream and
           Butter flavor sprinkle
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
   Bring broth, leeks and spinach to a simmer. Cover and cook 5
  minutes. Add potatoes and cook, covered, 20 minutes, or until
  potatoes are tender. Puree half the mixture; return to saucepan. Stir
  in butter sprinkles and pepper. Serve hot or cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Squash Apple Walnut Bisque
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Chopped large onion
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Butter/margarine
  1 1/2 lb Peeled butternut squash
           Or pumpkin cut in 2 inch
           Cubes or about 2 cup cooked
           Canned or frozen squash
      4    Peeled sliced apples
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
      2 c  Apple cider
      2 ts Salt or to taste
      1 ts White pepper to taste
    1/2 ts Ground allspice
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
           Pinch of ground cloves
      4 c  Chicken stock
    1/2 c  Dark brown sugar
    1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese opt
           Heavy cream to thin to
           Desired consistency opt.
           Whipped cream for garnish
           Opt
           Allspice for garnish
 
  In a kettle, cook the onion and garlic in margarine until soft,
  stirring occasionally. Add the cubed squash, apples, walnuts, cider,
  salt, pepper, allspice, cinnamon, cloves and enough stock to cover.
  Bring the mixture to a boil and simmer, partially covered, 1 hour or
  until squash is tender. If using canned, frozen or already cooked and
  pureed squash, add to other ingredients, bring to a boil and simmer
  for 10 minutes - start with a small amount of stock and add more if
  needed. Garnish and serve. In batches, puree the bisque in a blender
  or food processor until very smooth. Return to a clean pot and add
  brown sugar and, if needed, more salt and pepper. If desired, add
  cheese and stir until smooth. To thin to desired consistency, where
  ripples disappear, add cream or more cider. To serve, reheat until
  piping hot, but do not boil. Serve garnished with dollops of whipped
  cream and/or a dash of allspice and more chopped walnuts. NOTE: To
  precook squash without peeling, cut in half, remove pulp and bake,
  cut side down, in a baking dish with enough water to cover the bottom
  until tender, about 45 minutes at 375 degrees. Check occasionally to
  see if more water is needed. Then scrap pulp off the skin.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tart Tomato and Red Onion Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lg Very ripe quartered tomatos
      1 lg Red onion coarse chopped
      3 tb Chopped fresh basil leaves
    1/2 cl Garlic, minced
      1 ts Coarse salt to taste
      1 ts Sugar
      2 ts Coarse grain mustard
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 c  Good quality tomato juice
      1 c  Ice water
      1 c  Sour cream mixed with 2
           Ts dried dillweed garnish
 
  Add tomatos, red onion, basil leaves, garlic, salt, sugar and mustard
  to processor or blender and coarsely chop and blend. Transfer to
  large bowl and whisk in lemon juice, vinegar, oil, tomato juice and
  water. Refrigerate several hours or several days. Taste for
  seasonings before serving. Spoon a dollop of sour cream in each bowl
  and pass the rest.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
     10    Fresh skinned chopped
           Tomatos
      3    Diced large onions
      2    Diced stalks celery
      3 tb Chopped fresh basil
      2 tb Chopped fresh thyme
      2 c  Homemade chicken stock
     32 oz Tomato juice
      1 c  Cream
     20 oz Tomato puree
  3 1/2 c  Gin
    1/4 c  Sugar
 
  Saute vegetables and herbs in butter. Add stock and reduce to one
  third. Add tomato juice and cream. Bring to a simmer for 45 minutes.
  Add gin and sugar and thicken with tomato puree. Simmer for 1 hour.
  Garnish with chives, black olives and artichoke hearts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Soup with Cream and Dill
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Fresh ripe tomatos, about 4
      2 tb Butter/margarine
    3/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Chicken broth
      2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Sour cream for garnish opt.
           OR low fat sour cream/
           Yogurt
 
  Dice tomatos, about 4 cups, and set aside. In a medium saucepan, melt
  butter. Add onion; saute until transparent, about 5 minutes. Add
  chicken broth, paprika, salt, dill and black pepper. Bring to a boil;
  add tomatos. Simmer, covered, until tomatos are soft 8-10 minutes.
  Place half of tomato mixture in the container of an electric blender;
  whirl until smooth. Repeat with remaining mixture. Return all soup to
  saucepan. Add cream. Heat until hot, do not boil, Serve hot or cold,
  garnished with a spoonful of sour cream if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Water
      3    Cube chicken bouillon
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Chopped broccoli
      6 c  Milk
      9 tb Cornstarch
      1 lb Cubed Velveeta cheese
 
  Dissolve bouillon cubes in water and bring to boil. Add celery,
  onions and broccoli, reduce heat and simmer until vegetables are
  tender, not mushy. Mix milk and cornstarch, a little at a time, and
  stir until all cornstarch is dissolved. Gradually add milk mixture to
  soup and stir constantly. Then add cheese cubes, stirring only until
  cheese is melted. Do not boil, as soup may curdle.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Soup with Tilsit Toast
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Sliced diced cooked bacon
      1 lb Fresh/frozen mixed chopped
           Vegetables
      5 c  Beef broth
      6    Slices white/whole wheat
           Bread
           Shredded tilsit
           Chopped fresh parsley for
           Garnish
 
  Cook diced bacon in 3 quart saucepan 3-4 minutes or until crisp. Add
  vegetables such as carrots, cauliflower, broccoli and peas. Add beef
  broth. Cover and bring to a boil. Uncover and simmer 5-10 minutes or
  until vegetables are tender. Season to taste with salt and pepper and
  ladle into 6 heatproof bowls. Float 1 slice white or whole wheat
  toast in each and sprinkle each slice with shredded tilsit. Broil
  briefly until cheese is golden brown. Sprinkle with chopped fresh
  parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Chili Texas Style
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Granule burger
      2 c  Boiling water
    1/4 c  Salad oil
      1 c  Chopped onions
  1 1/2 md Diced green pepper
      2 cl Crushed garlic
      1 cn (28-oz) whole tomatos
      2 cn (15-oz) cooked kidney beans
      3 cn (8-oz) tomato paste/sauce
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Chili powder
    1/2 ts Cumin powder
      4 tb Sugar
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Oregano leaves
 
  Good slow pot recipe. Longer cooking enhances the flavor. Soak granule
  burger in boiling water for 10 minutes or more. Place oil in heavy
  saucepan. Combine onions, green pepper, garlic and saute in oil. Add
  the granule burger to the sauteed vegetables, cook for 5 minutes. Add
  the rest of the ingredients. Simmer at least 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Winter-Warmer Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Spanish onion
      2 lg Carrots
      1 md Turnip/swede
      1 lb Leeks
           Potatoes
           Handful pearl barley/rice
      1    Cube vegetable stock
      1 ts Dried mixed herbs
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Tomato puree optional
 
  Fill a very large saucepan with lid, if possible 2/3 full with cold
  water and put it on to boil. This will take a long time, so peel and
  chop or slice the onion, carrots, turnip/swede and potatoes. Trim the
  leeks, slice down one side, and rinse them thoroughly in cold running
  water. Chop them into 1/2 inch rings. Stir the stock cube into the
  boiling water. Add all the prepared vegetables, the mixed herbs, and
  the pearl barley or rice as you like. Turn down the heat and simmer
  gently, stirring occasionally, until the potato has cooked enough to
  thicken the soup and all the other vegetables are tender, but still
  recognizable. It needs about 40 minutes. Add more water if required,
  a little at a time. Adjust flavor with salt and pepper, and tomato
  puree if liked.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Beef and Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Short ribs of beef
      1    Onion, skin on studded
           With 2 cloves
      3 cl Garlic peeled and lightly
           Crushed
      4    Whole black peppercorns
      4 c  Beef broth
      3 sm Leeks roots trimmed and 1
           Inch of green left on cut
           Into 1/4 x 2 inch julienne
           Strips well washed
      3    Carrots cut into 1/4 x 2
           Inch julienne strips
      3    Celery ribs cut into
           1/4 x 2 inch julienne
           Strips
      8    White mushroom caps cut
           Into thin slices
      2 c  Shaped pasta cooked until
           Just tender
           Salt and fresh ground black
           Pepper to taste
      2 tb Chopped dill
      2 tb Parsley
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place beef, onion, garlic, peppercorns
  and broth in an oven-proof casserole. Add water to cover by 1 1/2
  inches. Bring to a boil. Cover and bake in the oven about 2 hours,
  until beef is very tender. Remove meat and cool. Shred from bones,
  discarding any fat and the bones. cover. Pour broth through a fine
  mesh strainer into a gravy separator or bowl. Allow to cool. Pour or
  skim off fat and return defatted broth to the casserole. Add leeks,
  carrots and celery to casserole. Bring to a boil; reduce heat and
  simmer, covered, 3 minutes. Add shredded beef to broth with
  mushrooms, pasta, salt and pepper. Bake, covered, for 5 minutes.
  Remove from oven and stir in dill and parsley. Serve immediately in
  deep soup bowls.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef and Vegetable Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------BEEF BONE STOCK---------------------------
      4 lb Meaty bones sawed into
           Pieces
      1    Halved onion
      2    Quartered carrots
      1    Outer stalk celery cut
           Into 3 pieces
      1 sm Turnip sliced optional
     12    Peppercorns
      1    Bay leaf
           Pinch of thyme
      4    Parsley stalks

MMMMM----------------------------SOUP---------------------------------
      3 pt Beef bone stock with
           Fat removed
      2 tb Fat from stock
      1 lg Chopped onion
      1 c  Diced carrot
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Diced turnip optional
    1/2 c  Diced parsnip optional
  1 1/2 lb Cross cut shanks
      1 c  Chopped tomatos
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Barley (if used soup must
           Be eaten in a day or two)
 
  STOCK: Wash soup bones in cold water, place in large kettle and cover
  with cold water, about 4 pints. Bring to a boil slowly, skimming when
  necessary. Add vegetables, peppercorns, herbs and salt. Cover and
  simmer 2-3 hours. Strain stock into a large bowl and discard the
  bones and vegetables. Store stock, covered, overnight in
  refrigerator. Next day remove the fat and retain 2-3 Tb of it for the
  soup. SOUP: Place fat in soup kettle and saute onions, carrots,
  celery, turnips and parsnips over low heat for 10 minutes. Increase
  heat and add boned and diced shank meat. Cook, stirring, until beef
  juices run out and brown. Add stock, barley, tomatos, sugar, salt and
  pepper. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 1/2
  hours or until beef is tender. Soup is ready to serve. Soup improves
  when served the next day.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef and Vegetable Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------BEEF STOCK: MADE ONE DAY AHE---------------------
      5 lb Short ribs of beef
      1 lg Onion skin left on
      2    Whole cloves
      3 cl Garlic
      2    Stalk celery with leaves
      1 lg Carrot
      3 c  Low/no sodium beef broth

MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
      3 lg Carrots cut in 1/2 inch
           Dice
      2 lg Parsnips cut in 1/2 inch
           Dice
      2    Stalk celery cut in 1/2
           Inch dice
      6    Sprigs fresh dill
    1/2 lb Green beans 1 inch lengths
      2    Leeks cut into thin strips
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
    1/4 c  Chopped dill
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Place short ribs in a soup pot. Halve onions and stud with cloves. Add
  garlic, celery, carrot and broth. Add water to cover by 1 1/2 inches.
  Cook, covered, for 1 1/2 hours or until meat is tender. Remove meat,
  cool slightly and shred from the bones, trimming and discarding all
  fat. Cool meat completely. Wrap well and refrigerate until ready to
  use. Discard bones. Strain stock, discarding solids, and cool
  completely. Refrigerate overnight. Remove and discard all the fat
  that has risen to the top before using. To make soup, return defatted
  stock to large soup pot. Add diced carrots, parsnips, celery and dill
  sprigs. Bring to a boil slowly. Reduce heat and simmer, covered, for
  15 minutes. Bring reserved meat to room temperature. Add green beans
  and leeks; simmer for an additional 10 minutes. Remove dill sprigs.
  Add reserved meat and half the chopped parsley and dill. Season with
  salt and pepper; cook 3-4 minutes more to heat through. Add remaining
  chopped parsley and dill, then serve steaming hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Chili with Navy Beans
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Navy beans
      1 lb Lean beef stew trimmed of
           Fat and cut into 1/4 to 1/2
           Inch pieces
      2    Onions cut into 1/2 inch
           Pieces
      1 tb Chopped garlic
      1 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 lg Tomato (1/2 lb) cut into
           1/2 inch pieces
 
  Remove any stones from the beans and wash them thoroughly in a sieve.
  Place the beans in a pot with beef, onions, garlic, chili powder,
  salt, tomato paste, tomato and add 6 cups of water. Bring to a boil,
  reduce the heat to very low and simmer 2 to 2 1/2 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheeseburger Mac
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn (19-oz each) chunky sirloin
           Burger soup
      3 c  Cooked elbow macaroni
  1 1/3 c  Grated cheddar cheese
 
  In 4 quart saucepan combine all ingredients. Over medium heat, heat
  through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Chicken broth OR
      1 c  Chicken broth and 1 bouillon
           Cube dissolved in 1 cup hot
           Water
  1 1/2 c  Fine diced potato
    1/2 c  Fine diced onion
    1/2 c  Fine diced celery
      1 ts Salt
      1 sm Bay leaf
      1 c  Cut up chicken breast
      3    Strips crumbled fried bacon
 
  Cook until vegetables are just tender over medium heat. Just before
  serving, add 2 cup milk and 2 cup cream style corn or 1 cup cream
  style and 1 cup whole kernel corn. Return to a boil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Chicken and giblets, cut in
           Pieces
      1 tb Salt
      4    Chopped carrots
      6    Chopped celery stalks
           W/leaves
      1    Chopped onion
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 c  Rice or noodles
 
  Put chicken pieces in large pot with water to cover. Add salt and
  bring to a boil. Reduce heat to simmer and skim off fat. Add
  vegetables and garlic, cover and cook until tender. Remove chicken
  and either serve separately or dice and return to soup. Season to
  taste. Add rice or noodles and cook until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Whole chickens cut up
      2    Chopped medium onions
      2 c  Sliced celery
      4 c  Sliced carrots
      2 qt Chopped tomatos
      1 sm Head cabbage shredded
      8    Potatoes peeled and chopped
      4    Chicken bouillon cubes
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 ts Marjoram
      2 ts Basil
      1 ts Thyme
      2 tb Chopped parsley
  1 1/2 lb Spaghetti broken
           Into pieces
 
  Wash chicken pieces and place in large stockpot. Cover with water and
  bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer until chicken falls off the
  bones (approximately 2-3 hours). Remove chicken with slotted spoon
  and let cool. When cool enough to handle, remove bones and skin and
  cut all chicken up in small pieces, being careful not to leave any
  bones. Add chicken to stock left in pan and refrigerate overnight.
  When you remove pot from refrigerator, skim off the grease from the
  top of the stock ( the chicken will be very moist from having
  remained in the stock overnight). Return pot to heat and slowly bring
  to boil. Add onions, celery, carrots, tomatos, cabbage and potatoes.
  Add bouillon, bay leaf, salt and pepper, marjoram, basil, thyme and
  parsley and simmer until vegetables are done to your liking. Then add
  broken pieces of spaghetti and cook until tender. The soup will be
  very thick, almost stew-like. It freezes well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili #1
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 cn (1-lb) tomato sauce
      1 cn (1-lb) stewed tomatos
      1 cn (1-lb) drained kidney beans
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
 
  Place plastic colander in a 2-quart microwave-safe casserole. Combine
  onion, green pepper, and crumbled ground beef in colander. Microwave
  (high or 100% power) for 6 minutes, stirring once halfway through
  cooking. Remove colander and pour off drippings. Turn meat mixture
  into casserole. Add tomato sauce, tomatos, beans, salt, chili powder,
  black pepper, and mustard. Cover. Microwave (high or 100% power) for
  10-12 minutes, stirring halfway through cooking. Rest, covered, for 5
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili #2
 Categories: Chili, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef, chicken, or
           Turkey
      2 c  Water
      1 tb Chili powder
      1 tb Curry powder
      3    Diced tomatos
      4 c  Cooked kidney beans or
           Pinto beans
      1    Chopped onion
      1    Bunch sliced green onions
  1 1/2 c  Grated natural sharp
           Cheese, or mild cheddar
           Cheese
 
  In a frying pan, saute meat until lightly browned. Pour off
  drippings. Add water, chili, and curry powder; simmer 5 minutes. Add
  tomatos and beans; heat through. Stir in onions. Ladle into serving
  bowls and sprinkle on cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili #3
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Chopped green pepper
  1 1/4 lb Ground veal, beef, pork
  1 1/2 tb Minced garlic
      3 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Oregano
           Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      4 c  Canned tomatos
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/4 ts Red hot pepper flake
 
  Heat oil in skillet, add onion and green pepper. Cook until wilted.
  Add the meat and, using the edge of a heavy kitchen spoon, stir and
  chop the meat to break up any lumps. Sprinkle the meat with garlic,
  chili powder, cumin and oregano. Stir to blend. Add the bay leaf,
  pepper, tomatos, vinegar and crushed hot pepper. Bring to a boil and
  cook for 1 hour, stirring occasionally.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili #4
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground round
      1 sm Chopped onion
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    3/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Catsup
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Mix all ingredients well. Place in a crockpot or slow cooker. Cook
  for 4 hours, stirring often until done. A condiment for hot dogs or
  hamburgers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili #5
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Bacon/small ham chunks
           Fried crisp
      2 qt Tomato sauce
      1 sm Chopped onion
      5 md Chopped shallots
      1 c  Fresh diced artichokes
      1 cn (15-oz) kidney beans opt
      2 c  Potato puree
      2 c  Michigan dry wine
      2 tb Dried parsley
      1 tb Thyme
      1 tb Oregano
      3 tb Chili powder
      4 tb Maple syrup
 
  Combine bacon, tomato sauce, onion, shallots, artichokes, beans,
  potato puree, wine, parsley, thyme, oregano, chili and maple syrup in
  a pot. Heat to boiling, then simmer for 45 minutes to 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Con Carne
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Ground chuck
      6 tb Bacon fat/ shortening
      3 md Chopped onions
      4 cl Chopped garlic
      4 tb Chili powder
      1 tb Cumin powder
      1 tb Flour
      1 lg Can tomatos
      3    Bay leaves
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Oregano
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
  1 1/2 tb Brown sugar
      1 pt Ripe black olives
      1 lg Can red kidney beans
 
   In 3-6 tb of bacon fat/shortening, lightly brown the onion and add
  the 4 cloves of garlic. Remove the onions and garlic with a fork or a
  slotted spatula. Add to the remaining fat the chili powder that has
  been mixed with the 1 Tb flour. Make sure that there is enough fat in
  fryer. If not, add a Tb or so, so that it mixes well. Stir until the
  mixture is smooth. Add the meat and stir it around until all the
  chili mixture is absorbed. Then brown the meat, stirring it to get it
  brown, but not burned. When brown, stir in the tomatos and cook
  gently for about 20 minutes. Then add the bay leaves, salt, oregano,
  red wine vinegar, and brown sugar. Cook about another 20 minutes and
  then add the red kidney beans. Cook slowly for about 2 hours. Then
  add the ripe black olives, after cutting them into thin slices, and
  use the pitted ones. and cook another 30 minutes. If the mixture
  looks too thick, add another can of tomatos at the time you put in
  the kidney beans, Serve with a bowl of crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Strata
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg slightly beaten
    3/4 c  Water
      1 pk (12-oz) corn chips
      2 cn (15 1/2-oz) Armor Stat Chili
           With beans
      1 cn (20-oz) enchilada sauce
    3/4 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 c  (8-oz) shredded cheddar
           Cheese
      4 c  Chopped lettuce
      2 c  Chopped tomatos
 
  Heat oven to 350 degrees. Mix egg and water. Crush 4 cups corn chip
  to make 2 cups crushed chips. Add egg mixture to crushed chips,
  spread in lightly greased 13 x 9-inch baking dish. Combine chili, 1
  cup enchilada sauce, green pepper and onion; spread over corn chips
  in casserole. Bake at 350 degrees, 35 minutes. Top with cheese and
  remaining whole corn chips; bake 5 minutes. Top with lettuce and
  tomatos. Serve with sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Verde
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pork steaks
      1    Chopped onion
      5 tb Flour
      4 c  Water
    1/4 ts Garlic
    1/2 ts Red pepper
    1/2 ts Oregano
    2/3 ts Ground cumin
      2 cn (7-oz) whole green chilies
 
  Cut fat off steaks. Cut steaks into bite size pieces. Fry until well
  done. Remove meat and cook onion until tender. Remove onion. Make
  gravy with drippings and flour and water. Chop green chilies. Return
  meat and onion to gravy with all other ingredients, simmer. Add 2-3
  hot Fresno chilies if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cincinnati Chili
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 qt Beef broth
      2 lb Ground beef
      4 tb Chili powder
      1 cl Minced garlic
    1/4 c  Onion flakes
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
           Dash of cayenne pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Vinegar
    1/2 oz (1/2 square) unsweetened
           Chocolate
 
  In large saucepan bring beef broth to boil. Gradually add ground beef
  to broth, separating meat into small pieces. Cover, simmer, for 30
  minutes. Then mix in chili powder, garlic, onion flakes, spices, and
  tomato sauce, vinegar, and chocolate and bring to boil. Simmer,
  covered, 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Refrigerate overnight and
  skim off fat. Reheat and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Ruben Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Beef stock
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
    1/4 c  Chopped coarse celery
    1/4 c  Coarse chopped onion
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 tb Cornstarch dissolved
           In 2 Tb water
      1 c  (1/4 lb) coarse chopped
           Corned beef
      1 c  Chopped Swiss cheese
    3/4 c  Sauerkraut drained and
           Rinsed
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter
      2 c  Half and half
           Chopped fresh chives for
           Garnish
 
  Combine beef and chicken stock, celery, onion and green pepper in
  large saucepan and bring to boil over high heat. Reduce heat and
  simmer until vegetables are crispy tender, about 5 minutes. Add
  dissolved cornstarch and continue cooking until soup thickens. Remove
  from heat and stir in corned beef, Swiss cheese and sauerkraut,
  blending well. Melt butter in large double boiler over medium heat.
  Stir in half and half. Add soup and blend until smooth. Heat through,
  but do not boil. Garnish with chives.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Hodge Podge Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Hamburger
      1    Chopped onion
           Salt and pepper
      1 cn (10.75-oz) tomato soup
      1 cn (16-oz) mixed vegetables
      1 cn (16-oz) kidney beans
      1    Box (14.75-oz) spaghetti
 
  Brown hamburger and onions. Drain excess grease. Add tomato soup and
  half a can of water. Stir in vegetables. Run knife through spaghetti
  to cut strands. Add to soup mixture. Bring to boil, simmer 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Favorite Chili
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1    Chopped green pepper
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      1 cn (15-oz) tomato sauce
      1 cn (12-oz) beer
      1 c  Shredded sharp cheddar
           Cheese
      1 pk Carrol Shelby Texas brand
           Chili mix
 
  Brown meat; drain. Add onions, pepper and garlic; cook until
  vegetables are tender. Add tomato sauce and 1 cup beer. Add large
  spice packet, salt and cayenne pepper to taste; mix well. Bring to a
  boil; reduce heat. Simmer 15 minutes. Gradually add remaining beer to
  masa flour packet, stirring until well blended. Add to meat mixture,
  simmer 5 minutes. Serve with cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Goulash Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Beef sirloin diced coarse
           And remove all fat
      2 tb Fine sliced onion
           Salt to taste
      1 lg Pinch paprika
           Cumin to taste
        sm Crushed garlic
      1 tb (Generous) flour
  1 1/2 qt Plain clear soup consomme
      2    Diced potatoes
 
  Brown meat in soup kettle with diced onions. Season with salt and
  paprika. Add cumin and garlic. When the meat is well browned,
  sprinkle a generous Tb of flour over it. Mix and let cook for a
  minute or two without allowing to brown. Add clear soup, bring to a
  boil and let it cook slowly for 3 hours. An hour before serving add
  potatoes to broth. Serve with bread croutons fried in butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Last Minute Chili
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Chili mix
           Chopped green and red pepper
      2 lb Ground beef
  2 1/3 c  Cold water
      1 cn (8 oz) tomato sauce
           Sour cream
           Shredded mild cheddar cheese
 
  Prepare chili as directed on package using ground beef, water and
  tomato sauce. To serve, spoon into individual serving bowls and top
  with sour cream, cheese and peppers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meatball Minestrone
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------MEATBALLS------------------------------
      1 lb Hamburger
    1/2 lb Sweet Italian sausage
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1    Box (10 1/2-oz) frozen
           Spinach thawed & well
           Drained (squeeze out the
           Excess moisture)
           Oil for browning
      1    Egg

MMMMM----------------------------SOUP---------------------------------
      7 c  Water
      1 cn (15 oz) kidney bean w/juice
      1 lg Can (4 cups) tomatos
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Basil
      2    Stalks celery
      2 lg Carrots, peeled and slice
      2 c  Mostaccioli uncooked pasta
           Freshly grated Parmesan
           Cheese
      7 c  Beef bouillon (or 7 cups
           Well-seasoned beef stock for
           Water and bouillon cubes)
 
  To make the meatballs, combine the hamburger and sausage. Add the
  bread crumbs, salt and pepper, the spinach and egg. Mix thoroughly
  and form into large meatballs. Saute in a little oil until browned on
  all sides. Set aside. For soup, bring the water, bouillon cubes,
  kidney beans, tomatos, oregano and basil to a slow boil, mashing the
  tomatos with the back of a wooden spoon. Simmer 10 minutes and add
  the celery and carrots. Bring back to a boil and simmer 10 more
  minutes. The add the mostaccioli and meatballs and boil another 10
  minutes. Let cool 15 minutes (pasta will absorb a lot of the liquid).
  Serve with freshly- grated Parmesan cheese, a salad and hearty bread,
  such as the cabbage patch bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poo Man's Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Quartered whole chicken
           Water
      1 oz Piece pork tenderloin
      6    Stalks celery cut on the
           Diagonal
      1    Diced large onion
    1/4    Head cabbage thinly sliced
      3    Carrots cut on the diagonal
      2    Diced potatoes
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2    Green onions finely chopped
      2    Eggs slightly beaten
           Wonton wrappers
      1    Egg white slightly beaten
 
  Place chicken and pork in a pot. Cover with water, bring to a boil.
  Add celery, onion, cabbage, carrots, potatoes and soy sauce. Simmer
  about 2 hours. Remove pork, chop finely. Debone and skin chicken and
  chop finely. Combine pork and chicken with green onions and eggs. Mix
  thoroughly. Place 1 heaping ts of mixture in center of each wonton
  wrapper. Brush edges of wrapper with egg white. Fold in half to form
  a triangle, pressing edges together to seal tightly. Cover with damp
  cloth while filling remaining wontons. While soup is simmering,
  carefully drop in wontons. Bring back to boil, then simmer until
  wontons become transparent. Season to taste with soy sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pozole
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Pork shoulder butt with
           Bone
      2    Pork neck bones
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 md Onion
      4 cn (15-oz each) white hominy
      1 tb Chile rojo powder
           Diced onions
           Trimmed radishes
           Shredded raw cabbage
           Tabasco sauce or salsa to
           Garnish
 
  Fill large soup pot or kettle (dutch oven) about half full with cold
  water. Cur pork into 1-2 inch chunks and place in pot along with neck
  bones, salt and pepper. Cut onion in half and add to pot. Bring to a
  boil and cook at medium-low heat until the meat falls off the bones
  (about 2 1/2 to 3 hours.) Remove bones. At this point, you may cool
  down the meat and stock, then refrigerate overnight to congeal fat.
  Trim away all possible fat and proceed. Add hominy and chile rojo and
  bring soup to a final boil, then simmer about 20 minutes, skimming
  off any foam. Serve in deep bowls, garnish, if desired, with onions,
  radishes and cabbage. Pass the Tabasco or salsa.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 pk (16-oz) frozen mixed soup
           Vegetables
      4 c  V-8 cocktail juice
      4 c  Water
      2 tb Beef flavor instant
           Bouillon
      1 ts Basil leaves
      1 ts Marjoram leaves
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Onion salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 lb Package spaghetti broken
           Into thirds and uncooked
           Grated Parmesan cheese opt
 
  In dutch oven, brown ground beef; drain. Stir in next ten ingredients.
  Bring to a boil. Reduce heat; simmer 30 minutes. Prepare spaghetti
  according to package directions; drain. Add to soup mixture; heat
  through. Serve with Parmesan cheese. Refrigerate or freeze leftovers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soup Satisfier
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 c  Chicken broth
      2 c  Cooked chicken meat cubed
    1/3 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Sliced carrot (2 medium)
      1 c  Deiced celery ( 3 medium
           Stalks)
      1 ts Dried parsley
      1 sm Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
     16 oz Frozen egg noodles
 
  Combine broth, chicken vegetables and spices in large pot. Bring to a
  boil. Stir noodles into boiling broth. Simmer 30 minutes or until
  tender, stirring occasionally. Remove bay leaf.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: To the Moon Chili
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 pk (1.75 oz) chili-o seasoning
           Mix
    1/2 c  Water
      1 cn (14.5-oz) whole tomatos
           Cut up
      1 cn (16-oz) drained kidney bean
      1 tb Red hot cayenne pepper sauce
           Red pepper chopped
           Shredded cheddar cheese
           Green onion chopped
 
  In a dutch oven brown ground beef; drain. Stir in seasoning mix,
  water, tomatos, beans and red hot sauce. Bring to a boil; reduce heat
  and simmer, covered 10 minutes. Garnish with chopped red pepper,
  green onion and cheese, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Bologna Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Microwave
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Microwave elbows uncooked
      1 cn (10.5-oz) condensed tomato
           Soup
           Hot water
      3    Slices bologna cut up
 
  In 2 quart microwave safe casserole, stir together pasta, soup, 1 1/2
  soup cans hot water and bologna. Cover; microwave at high 13 minutes,
  or until pasta is tender. Stir.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turtle Soup #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Turtle meat
  3 1/2 qt Water
      2    Chopped fine medium onions
      1    Chopped fine rib of celery
    1/2    Bay leaf
      2    Sprigs parsley
      6    Cloves
      1 ts Sugar
      1 c  Canned tomatos
      3 tb Butter
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Cut meat from bones, set aside, reserve bones and gristle. Add onions,
  celery, bay leaf, parsley, cloves, sugar, tomatos, bones, gristle and
  salt and pepper to water; heat to boil. Simmer covered for 1 hour.
  Meanwhile, cut meat in 1/4-inch dice and brown in butter. Strain
  broth and discard bones and vegetables. Add browned meat and
  drippings. Simmer for 20-30 minutes until meat is done and broth is
  richly flavored. Do not overcook. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turtle Soup #2
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 qt Strained chicken broth
      1 lb Turtle meat
      3 tb Chicken fat
      1 md Chopped onion
      1 tb Parsley
      6    Thin slices bacon
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Prepare rich chicken broth with salt only. Strain. Cut turtle meat in
  small dice. Brown slowly in chicken fat. Add chopped onion; saute
  until onion is tender. Add meat, onion, seasonings and any fat to
  chicken broth. Bring to a boil and simmer for 10 minutes. Serve with
  parsley sprinkled on each bowlful and a paper-thin slice of lemon
  floated on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Chili #1
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------CHICKEN MIXTURE---------------------------
      2 tb Butter
      1    Bunch chopped scallions
      1 md Sweet yellow pepper chopped
      1 cl Garlic, minced
      4    Fresh jalapeno peppers
           Seeded and chopped
    1/2 ts Fresh grated ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sage
    1/2 ts Cumin
  1 1/2    Chicken breasts skinned
           Boned and cut into pieces

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCES--------------------------------
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cream
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1 cn (17-oz) corn
      1    Jar (3-lb) great northern
           Beans

MMMMM-----------------EXTRA SEASONINGS: OPTIONAL----------------------
           Cayenne pepper
           White pepper
      1    Jar (11-oz) pickled
           Jalapeno peppers
           Grated Monterey jack cheese
 
  CHICKEN MIXTURE: Melt butter in a 5 quart pan. Saute scallions, yellow
  pepper, garlic, fresh jalapenos, ginger, salt, sage and cumin. Add
  chicken and cook until just done. Do not overcook. Remove chicken
  from pan and set aside. SAUCE: Melt the 3 Tb butter in the same pan.
  When bubbling, add flour, and whisk briskly while adding cream. When
  smooth and thick, add chicken broth. Stir until blended. Stir in
  corn, beans, and chicken mixture and simmer 30 minutes. If desired,
  add 2 shakes cayenne pepper, 1 shake white pepper, and 4 ounces of
  pickled jalapenos with a little juice. Serve chili hot, topped with
  grated cheese and accompanied by corn bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Chili #2
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 md Onion chopped fine
    1/2 lg Green pepper chopped fine
      1 lg Clove garlic minced
      1    Shredded carrot
      2    Stalks celery chopped fine
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Butter
  1 1/4 lb Cooked boneless chicken
           Chopped
      1 cn (15-oz) low salt chicken
           Broth or homemade
      2 cn Pinto beans one drained and
           Rinsed one not drained and
           Pureed in blender
    3/4 c  Dry white vermouth
      1 cn Chick peas optional
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
      2 ts Chili powder
      1 tb Honey
      2 ts Medium hot sauce
           Shredded mozzarella cheese
           Opt.
 
  In a medium saucepan, saute in oil and butter over medium high
  temperature the onion, green pepper, garlic, carrot and celery 6-8
  minutes. Gently add the cooked chicken, broth and beans. Add
  vermouth, chick peas, cumin, Tabasco sauce, chili powder, honey and
  hot sauce and simmer and stir on low for a half hour. For a nice
  touch and added flavor, melt shredded mozzarella cheese on top of
  each serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Chili #3
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Navy beans dry
      6 c  Heavy cream
      6 c  Chicken stock
      2 oz (1/4 cup) peanut oil
      2 c  Diced celery
      2 c  Diced onion
      2 c  Diced bell pepper
      1 c  Diced jalapeno pepper
      2 ts Garlic puree
      3 tb Cumin
      3 tb Chili powder
  2 1/2 tb Salt
  2 1/2 tb Pepper
      2 tb Diced chicken
      4 tb Tabasco sauce
 
  Cover beans with water and cook until soft. Drain well. In small
  stockpot, bring cream, chicken and navy beans to a simmer. In saute
  pan, heat peanut oil, then add celery, onion and peppers. Cook until
  onions are clear. Add garlic puree, cumin, chili powder, salt and
  pepper to vegetables, toss well, and add to stock pot. Add chicken
  and Tabasco. Simmer until thick, about 30 minutes. Re-season to taste
  and cooking with cumin, salt and pepper. Pour into individual
  ovenproof serving bowls, top with mozzarella cheese, melt under
  broiler. Makes about 2 1/2 gallons but recipe can be cut.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2    Stick oleo
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 c  Mashed potatoes
    1/2    Stick oleo
    1/4 c  Onion
      2 c  Milk
      1 sm Jar Cheese Whiz
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Simmer 1/2 stick oleo and onion until done the way you want. Sprinkle
  flour to thicken. Add milk, 1/2 stick oleo, cheese, potatoes, salt
  and pepper. Heat until cheese melts, stirring constantly to prevent
  scorching.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      1    Shredded large potato
      1    Grated medium carrot
      1    Fine chopped celery stalk
      1 c  Chicken consomme/broth OR
      2 ts Instant chicken bouillon
           Dissolved in 1 cup hot
           Water
    1/2 c  Half-and-half
  1 1/2 c  Shredded sharp cheddar
           Cheese (about 6-oz)
 
  Combine water, potato, onion, carrot and celery in a 2 quart
  casserole; cover and microwave at high until potatoes are tender, 12-
  17 minutes; stirring after halfway through the cooking time. Stir in
  consomme and half-and-half. Cover. Microwave at medium high heat
  until heated through, 6-8 minutes. Mix in cheese stirring until
  melted.
   For range top: Cook potatoes, onion, carrot and celery in water until
  tender. Add consomme and half and half over low heat until hot. Stir
  in cheese until melted.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Vegetable Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Diced tomatos
      1 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Chopped carrots
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 ts Chicken bouillon
  4 1/2 c  Water
      4 tb Water
      3 c  Milk
      1 lb Velveeta cheese
      2 ts Chopped parsley flakes
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Combine tomatos, celery, carrots, onion, chicken bouillon and 4 1/ 2
  cup water and simmer until vegetables are done and liquid is reduced.
  Shake together flour with a small portion of milk and add to
  vegetables with the rest of the milk. Cut the Velveeta cheese in
  cubes and add to soup along with parsley, salt and pepper. Simmer at
  low temperature till hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mellow Cheese Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 md Leeks
    1/4 c  Butter/margarine
      5 c  Chicken broth
      1 md All purpose potato pared
           And sliced thin
      2    Egg yolks
      1 c  Shredded Jarlsberg cheese
           Divided
           Salt and white pepper to
           Taste
 
  Rinse leeks under running cold water to remove sand. Cut leeks 1 inch
  above white base. Reserve 1 green leaf for garnish; discard remaining
  leek greens. Coarsely chop white part of leeks into pieces. In medium
  saucepan, over medium heat, saute leeks in butter until soft, about 3
  minutes. Add broth and potato; cover and cook until potato is fork
  tender, about 20 minutes. In blender container or food processor, in
  batches, process soup until pureed. Return soup to saucepan. In small
  dish, beat egg yolks. Stir 1/4 cup soup into yolks. Slowly stir yolks
  back into soup. Reserve 2 Tb cheese for garnish. Gradually stir
  remaining cheese into soup until melted. Season with salt and pepper.
  Pour into serving dishes.  Garnish each with thin strips of leek
  green and reserved cheese.  -----
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bluenose Strawberry Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sliced strawberries
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Half and half
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Brandy
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
           Extra sliced strawberries
           And mint sprigs
 
  Blend strawberries, sour cream, half and half, sugar, brandy and
  vanilla until smooth, about 30-45 seconds. Serve in chilled cups and
  garnish with sliced strawberries and mint sprigs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cantaloupe Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Cantaloupes
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar
           Fresh mint leaves about
           One good size handful plus
           Some for garnish
           Port
           Lemon juice
 
  Carefully cut three of the cantaloupes in half in a zig-zag pattern
  using a very sharp knife. Scoop out and throw away the seeds. Use a
  melon ball scooper to scoop out the flesh of the melon; Take it down
  to the green part. Do the same thing with the remaining fourth
  cantaloupe. It doesn't matter how you slice this one because all you
  will be using is the flesh. Place all of the scooped cantaloupe in a
  food processor. Add the sugar and mint leaves, a splash of port and
  splash of lemon juice. Be careful not to over-process the mixture; it
  should retain some texture. Garnish with remaining mint leaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Berry Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Fresh/thawed frozen
           Blueberries picked over
           Rinsed and drained
      1 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  + 1 Tb dairy sour cream
           Divided
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
 
  In blender container, puree blueberries, orange juice, 1/2 cup sour
  cream, sugar and nutmeg, until smooth. If desired, strain through
  fine mesh sieve. To serve, pour into bowls. Place remaining 1
  tablespoon sour cream in small plastic storage bag; with scissor,
  snip tiny hole in one corner. Squeeze sour cream in circular pattern
  over soup; outline stem and petals. Pull wooden pick through sour
  cream to make petal design.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Strawberry Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pt Fresh strawberries
  1 1/2 ts Instant tapioca
      1 c  Orange juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Dash of cinnamon
           Dash of allspice
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1    Thin sliced lime
           Additional sliced
           Strawberries
 
  Process strawberries in blender or food processor until strawberries
  are pureed. In medium saucepan, combine pureed strawberries, tapioca,
  orange juice, lemon juice, cinnamon and allspice. Bring to a boil,
  stirring constantly with a wire whisk. Reduce heat and simmer
  uncovered over moderate heat until mixture is thickened. The time
  varies, it may take 1 hour. Stir frequently. Remove from heat. Add
  sugar and stir until sugar dissolves. Refrigerate mixture until well
  chilled. Add lemon rind and buttermilk. Mix well with wire whisk.
  Serve soup garnished with lime slices and sliced strawberries.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Chowder #1
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Chopped celery
      2 c  Chopped potatoes
      2 cn Minced clams
      1 tb Apple cider vinegar
    3/4 c  Butter/margarine
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 qt Half and half
           Salt and pepper
 
  Pour clam juice and vinegar over vegetables, add water just to cover.
  Simmer 30 minutes. Melt butter, blend in flour, cook 1 minute, then
  add half and half. Cook until smooth and thick. Add 1/2 ts salt and
  pepper to taste/ Last add vegetables and clams, cook in crock pot at
  least 1 hour until flavor is through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jell-O Mold with Broccoli
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 oz Lemon jello
      2 ts Vinegar
      1 c  Finely chopped broccoli OR
      1 pk (10 oz) frozen chopped
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Mayonnaize
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Pat Buttons Jell-o Mold Put the broccoli
  and water to a full boil. Remove from heat and add the jello and mix
  thoroughly. Let it cool a bit. (You could put the mixture in a bowl
  and then place the bowl over a larger one filled with ice.) When cool
  enough add the sour cream, vinegar, mayonnaize. Chill until firm and
  unmold if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesecake Divine
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Pkg. cream cheese
      2    Eggs, beaten
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  Sour cream
  3 1/2 ts Sugar
           Dash vanilla
           Dash lemon juice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Joann Pierce Cheesecake Divine Beat well
  and pour into graham crust. Bake at 350 degrees for 15-20 minutes.
  Remove and cool 5 minutes. Combine sour cream, sugar, vanilla and
  lemon juice. Pour on top of cream cheese mixture. Bake for 10
  minutes. Chill for at least 5 hours. Serve with crushed berries if
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Martha Washington Devils Food Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Squares (1 oz) of
           Unsweetened chocolate
      2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla.
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Sharon Goldwasser Originally from:
  "Baker's Books of Chocolate Riches" Martha Washington Devil's Food
  Cake (from Baker's Book of Chocolate Riches) Melt chocolate in a
  saucepan over a very low heat, stirring constantly until smooth. Add
  1/2 cup of the sugar and 1/2 cup of the buttermilk. Stir until well
  blended. Cool thoroughly. Mix flour, baking powder, soda and salt.
  Cream butter, and gradualy beat in the remaining 1-1/2 cups sugar.
  Continue beating until light and fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time,
  beating thoroughly after each. Blend in about one-fourth of the flour
  mixture, then add the chocolate & vanilla. Alternately add the
  remaining flour and buttermilk, beating after each addition until
  smooth.
  
  Pour into two 9 inch greased & floured pans, and bake at 350 for
  about 40 minutes.
  
  I used a cream cheese frosting on the outside and filled the space
  between the layers with the chocolate frosting recipe on the
  Hershey's cocoa box.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guajolote En Mole Poblano (Turkey in Mole Sauce)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry, Turkey
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Turkey legs
      2 ts Of water
      1    Onion
      2    Cloves garlic (whole)
    1/2    Corn tortilla
      1    French roll
      2 tb Oil
           Pinch coriander
           Pinch anise
           Pinch cumin
           Pinch ground cloves
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      6 tb Coarse ground red chile
      2 tb Blanched almonds
      2    Squares unsweetened
           Chocolate
 
  Originally from: "Southwest Cookery, or At Home on the Range"
  Guajalote en mole Poblano Put the turkey to simmer with the onions
  and garlic. They should simmer till the meat is ready to slip, not
  fall, off the bones.
  
  Meanwhile, fry the tortilla and the roll in oil till crisp.
  
  Using a mortar or blender, grind the crisp bread up with the herbs,
  spices, almonds, and chocolate until well mixed.
  
  Remove the turkey, onion, and garlic from broth. Discard the onion and
  garlic, and cook the broth down to 2 or 3 cups. Reduce to a simmer,
  and slowly stir in the blended ingredients. Return the turkey to the
  sauce, and simmer for another 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Lentils (1 1/2 cups)
      3 tb Margarine or butter
    1/2 lb Bacon
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 cn (10 1/2 oz) undiluted,
    1/2 c  Chopped carrot
    3/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Chopped tomato
      2 tb Vinegar
           Condensed beef bouillon
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Larry Maki Originally from: "McCall's Cook
  Book" Lentil Soup Ellen, I have been making lentil soup for years and
  have found this to be one of the best tasting basic lentil soup
  recipes I have yet come across. It was originally from the 'McCall's
  Cook Book' but has been modified slightly. Hope you enjoy it!
  
  Put lentils in 5 cups cold water in a large kettle and bring to a
  boil. Reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 1 hour. Meanwhile, cut the
  bacon in small pieces and saute, in a large skillet, until crisp.
  Discard half of the bacon fat. (Only discard half or less or the soup
  will not taste complete). To the bacon in the skillet, add the onion,
  carrot, pepper and tomato and saute over low heat for 5 minutes.
  Combine with the lentils in the kettle.
  
  Melt butter or margarine in the same skillet and remove from heat.
  Slowly stir in the flour until smooth then gradually stir in the
  bouillon. Add salt and vinegar and bring to a boil while stirring.
  
  Pour into lentils and cook over low heat, stirring occasionally, for
  about 30 minutes.
  
  Serve and enjoy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Spice Mix
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sweet paprika
      1 ts Paprika
      1 tb Black pepper
      1 tb White pepper
      3 tb Cayenne
      1 tb Garlic powder
      1 tb Onion powder
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Rosemary
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Larry Maki Cajun Spice Mix I usually put
  in twice the amount of cayenne for my taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boudin Sausage
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Lean pork or veal
      2    Onions, chopped
    1/2    Bunch chopped green onions
      2 c  Cloves, minced
    1/2    Bunch chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Thyme
      2    Bay leaves
      1 tb Salt, or to taste
      1 ts Ground white pepper, or to
           Taste
      1 ts Cayenne, or to taste
      2 c  Water
      3 c  Cooked rice
      4 ts Twenty-inch long cleaned
           Sausage casings.
      1    Pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Fred Towner Originally from: "The 100
  Greatest Dishes of Louisiana", by Roy F. Guste, Jr. BOUDIN: Mince the
  pork or veal and put it in a pot with the chopped onions, green
  onions, garlic, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, salt, pepper(s), and
  cayenne. Add just enough water to meet the level of the ingredients.
  Bring to a boil and simmer for 10 minutes. Put the ingredients into a
  bowl and stir in the cooked rice. Adjust seasonings if necessary. Tie
  the 4 sausage casings at one end and stuff them with the mixture.
  Twist each 20-inch length into three equal lengths. Tie open end.
  
  The boudin can be cooked covered in a little water, grilled or pan
  fried in a little butter. Cut the sausages and serve 2 to each person.
  
  Serves 6
  
  VARIATIONS:
  
  This dish is a good one to learn because once you have mastered its
  preparation you can use almost anything in the place of the pork or
  veal. Some of the most popular are chicken, shrimp, crabmeat, and
  crayfish.
  
  Bread is a traditional but not as good replacement for the rice.
  
  NOTE: This is a great dish to make and it freezes well. Many people
  cut the casing off the boudin before eating it.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Horchata (Ground Rice Drink)
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Long Grain Rice
      4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
           Ice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Larry Dumlao Horchata (Ground Rice Drink)
  Place the rice in a bowl with enough hot water to cover. Let the rice
  sit overnight. Next day, remove the water. Place 1/2 cup of water,
  and 2 c milk in a blender. Blend until rice is all ground up. Mix in
  1/4 c sugar, 1/2 t vanilla, 1/4 t cinnamon. Do the same with the
  other half of the ingredients. Strain through cheesecloth (or
  whatever). Serve over ice.
  
  Makes 6 glasses.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Chocolate Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Cream cheese
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
     12 oz White chocolate
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Keith Ker White Chocolate Cheesecake
  Soften the cream cheese in the microwave. Melt the chocolate in a
  double boiler. Be careful not to get any water at all in the white
  chocolate as it changes the consistency. Hershey's white chocolate
  bars can be used for the white chocolate. Add sugar and eggs to cream
  cheese and blend a bit. Blend in the chocolate. Pour the mixture into
  a graham cracker crust and bake for 20 minutes at 350 degrees. Let
  cool slightly in oven with heat off and door slightly ajar.
  
  (Actually, this made two pies for us, so you might want to have two
  pie crusts on hand the first time you make it.)
  
  Servings: 12
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Lemon Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    (8- or 9-inch) baked pastry
           Shell or graham cracker
           Crust
      3    Egg yolks*
      1    (14 oz) can sweetened
           Condensed milk
    1/2 c  ReaLemon Lemon Juice from
           Concentrate
           Yellow food coloring
           Whipped topping or whipped
           Cream
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Tiffany Hall-Graham Creamy lemon Pie
  Preheat oven to 350. In medium bowl, beat egg yolks; stir in
  sweetened condensed milk, ReaLemon and food coloring. (A few drops
  only and it's optional). Pour into prepared crust; bake 8 minutes.
  Cool. Chill thoroughly. Top with whipped topping. Garnish as desired.
  
  *Use only Grade A clean, uncracked eggs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesed Zucchini
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Medium zucchini (or other
           Summer squash)
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Mayonnaise
    2/3 c  Grated sharp cheese
    1/4 ts Salt
           Dash of pepper
 
  Cheesed Zucchini Pare zucchini and cut into 1/4-inch slices. Cook
  slowly in very little milk slowly to mayo; stir in about half of the
  cheese and seasonings. Cook over low heat until thickened. Pour over
  zucchini and sprinkle with remaining cheese. Bake at 400 until top is
  browned.
  
  Or, place under broiler for several minutes until cheese is melted
  and top browned lightly.
  
  Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yummy Zucchini Bake
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Zucchini
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
      1 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Gruyere cheese, grated
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 c  Bread crumbs
           Parmesan cheese to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: "The
  Mayor's Cookbook" Yummy Zucchini Bake (Mayor Eugene B. Kunk,
  Springfield, Ohio)
  
  Wash and boil zucchini about 10 minutes. Cut off ends and halve
  lengthwise. Arrange in shallow, buttered casserole. Saute onion in
  butter; add remaining ingredients and spread over zucchini. Top with
  bread crumbs mixed with parmesan cheese. Bake at 350 for 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wheat Germ Zucchini Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Zucchini (shredded)
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate pieces
    3/4 c  Wheat germ
      2 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Cocoa
      3 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Cloves
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Janice Norman Originally from: "The
  Mayor's Cookbook" Wheat Germ Zucchini Cake Beat milk, eggs, sugar,
  vanilla, and oil together in one bowl. In another bowl, combine wheat
  germ, flour, cocoa, baking powder, salt, and spices. Stir wheat germ
  mixture into milk mixture. Fold in zucchini and chocolate pieces.
  Pour into greased and floured 9-cup or fluted pan. Bake at 350 60-70
  minutes, or until done. Cool 15 minutes and invert onto a wire rack.
  
  (Mayor D. Rosenberg, Davis, California)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak Fajitas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1 sm Onion (or 3-4 green onions
           W/tops)
    1/2 tb Green chilies, chopped
      1 tb Green peppercorns
    1/2 c  White wine
    3/4 c  Half & half
           Sirloin, sliced thinly
           (freshly grilled or
           Leftover)
           Flour tortillas, lg. size
           (warm in microwave to
           Soften)

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
           Dash of coriander
           Dash of salt
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng STEAK FAJITAS Saute onion and
  chilies until softened. Add green peppercorns and wine; reduce until
  most of wine is evaporated to a syrup consistency. Add cream and
  continue to simmer until sauce is thick enough to coat a spoon. Don't
  let it get pasty, though; watch carefully. Lower heat, salt to taste.
  Add more butter if necessary. Toss in cilantro or parsley. Add beef
  and stir just to coat if freshly grilled; if leftover, heat just 'til
  warm.
  
  Spoon into tortillas. Add fresh chopped tomato or salsa, guacamole,
  sour cream, shredded lettuce and cheddar. Fold up like a burrito and
  enjoy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicago Pepper Steak
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Salad oil
  1 1/2 lb Sirloin steak, in 1" cubes
      1 tb Flour
      2 md Celery stalks, sliced
           Thinly
      1    Med-lg onion, halved &
           Sliced thickly
      2 c  Beef broth
    1/8 ts Red pepper (or dash
           Tabasco sauce)
           Dash Worcestershire
           Splash red wine
      2 md Green peppers, cut in
           Mouthsized pieces
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng CHICAGO PEPPER STEAK Cook
  steak in hot oil until well browned on all sides. Place in 8x12"
  casserole dish, or thereabouts. Stir flour into remaining hot
  drippings. Cook until dark brown, stirring constantly. Add celery and
  onion and reduce heat to medium. Cook until veggies are tender. Stir
  in broth, pepper, Worcestershire and wine. Heat to boiling. Pour over
  steak in casserole dish. Cover with foil and bake at 350 for 1 hour.
  Add green pepper and continue to bake, uncovered, for 1/2 hour, or
  until steak is fork tender. Baste with sauce as it cooks, if needed.
  Serve over noodles.
  
  Optional: Add freshly sauteed mushrooms at same time as green peppers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Cornmeal Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizer, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 20 servings
 
    1/4 c  Lime Juice
    1/4 c  Vegetable Oil
    1/2 c  Crushed Red Pepper Flakes,
           Or To Taste
     10    Chicken Wings (About 2 Lbs)
      2 tb Butter Or Margarine
    1/2 c  Blue Or Yellow Cornmeal
      2 tb Unbleached All Purpose Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground Cumin
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Rich Harper Blue Cornmeal Chicken Wings
  Mix lime juice, oil and red pepper flakes in a large glass bowl. Cut
  each chicken wing at joints to make 3 pieces; discard tip. Cut off
  discard excess skin. Place wings in oil mixture; stir to coat. Cover
  and refrigerate at least 3 hours, stirring occasionally; drain.
  
  Heat oven to 425 degrees F. Heat margarine in rectanglar pan,
  13x9x2", in oven until melted. Shake remaining ingredients in plastic
  bag, or mix in bowl. Shake wings in cornmeal mixture to coat; place
  in pan. Bake uncovered 20 minutes, turn. Bake until golden brown, 20
  to 25 minutes longer.
  
  Makes 20 appetizers. Flakes are not the same as red pepper and it can
  be as hot as you want it by adding more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Foldovers
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Dry Yeast Or 1 Packet
    1/2 c  Warm Water (115 - 120F.)
      3 c  Unbleached White Flour,
           Sifted
      1 c  Whole Wheat Flour, Sifted
  1 1/2 lb Ground Beef
    1/2 c  Peeled Chopped Onion
    1/4 c  Chopped Celery
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Garlic Powder
    1/8 ts Ground Cumin
      1 cn Tomato Sauce
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar Cheese
    1/2 c  Cooked Rice
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Rich Harper Originally from: "Western
  Cooking Hearty Food for Hungry Folks", by Los McBride Foldovers Scald
  milk. Stir in sugar and salt and cool to lukewarm. Dissolve yeast in
  warm water. Stir cooled milk mixture into yeast mixture. Add flour
  and mix well. Turn out on a floured board and knead until
  elastic--about 5 minutes. Place in a greased bowl. Cover and let rise
  in a warm place until doubled--about an hour.
  
  While dough is rising, brown hamburger, onion, and celery in a small
  amount of oil; stirring so that the hamburger will be crumbly. Pour
  off excess fat. Stir in remaining ingredients. Simmer gently 10
  minutes.
  
  When dough has doubled, roll out very thin on a floured board. Cut
  into 6 envenly sized squares. Divide beef mixture into 6 equal
  portions and put 1 portion in the middle of each dough square. Fold
  over as for turnovers and seal edges with a fork.
  
  Place on a lightly oiled baking sheet and let rise in a warm place
  for 30 minutes. Make a small slit in the top of each Foldover. Bake
  at 350 degrees F. for 20 minutes. Let cool.
  
  When cool spread butter on each cooled Foldover and wrap in foil. If
  you make large batches for future Foldovers, now is the time to
  freeze them.
  
  At picnic time, put wrapped Foldovers on a grate an heat. Thawed
  Foldovers will take 5 minutes per side; frozen Foldovers will take
  close to 20 minutes per side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Roast Stuffed with Sausage & Spinac
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 lb Pork shoulder roast, deboned
    1/2 lb Italian sausage, removed
           From casing
      1    Bunch fresh spinach, OR
      1 pk Frozen leaf spinach
      2    Eggs, hard-boiled and sliced
    1/2 lb Ricotta cheese
      1    Medium onion, chopped
           Olive oil, for frying
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Frank Damiano Pork Roast Stuffed With
  Sausage And Spinach Lay pork roast out flat, fat side down, and
  decide whether you can fill it like a jelly roll or whether you must
  cut some of the meat from the center so that you have room for the
  stuffing. <If you have to remove some meat dice and mix with sausage
  meat.>
  
  Wash,chop and quickly fry the spinach in olive oil. Drain. <If you use
  frozen spinach, defrost, drain and squeeze it dry before frying.>
  
  Salt and pepper the meat. Place the sausage, spinach, eggs, cheese and
  onion in the center of the roast. Roll up the roast, and tie it like a
  jelly-roll. Place it on a baking rack, and bake at 350-Degree for
  about 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until golden on the outside.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mark's Flaming Raspberry Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Brandy
      1 c  Crushed Raspberries (or
           Smuckers "Simply Fruit"
           Raspberry)
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      2 ts Lemon juice (or Juice of 1
           Lemon)
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 ts Sugar or honey (to taste)
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Mark Drake Mark's Flaming Raspberry Sauce
  Mix all ingredients except brandy the night before you plan to serve.
  Refrigerate covered. When needed, mix brandy with fruit mixture. Pour
  over crepe's and light.
  
  You may want to set aside about half the mixture (without the brandy
  in it) to roll into the crepes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mark's Quick and Dirty Peach Cobbler
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Fresh sliced peaches,
           Covered with sugar (about
           1/2 cup)
           Pillsbury yellow cake mix
           (without pudding)
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
    1/4 lb (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine.
    1/2 c  Granulated, or powdered
           Sugar.
 
  Contributed to the echo by: Mark Drake Mark's Quick and Dirty Peach
  Cobbler In a mixing bowl, mix pecans, sugar, and cake mix until well
  mixed. In a glass cake pan, or teflon pan, spread peaches evenly in
  bottom of pan, spread cake mix evenly over the top of peaches, dot
  with pats of butter evenly. Bake in a pre-heated 350 degree oven
  until golden brown (about 1 hour).
  
  Serve warm or cold with vanilla ice cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops with Garlic and Onions (Suon Uop Hanh Toi Nuon
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Granulated sugar
      1 ea Onion
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Fish Sauce(nuoc mam)
      4 ea Cloves garlic
      4 ea Boneless pork chops
 
  Combine salt, sugar, fish sauce, minced onion, chopped garlic and
  oil. Pour over chops in a shallow dish.  Let marinate 3 to 4 hours,
  turning meat occaisionally.  Grill or bake in a 350 degree oven for
  45 minutes to 60 minutes or until cooked.  Slice  into bite sizes
  pieces before serving. Make 4 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Pasta Salad with Creamy Ginger Dressing
 Categories: Pasta, Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Precooked Shanghai noodles
    1/2 lb Snow peas
      2 tb Coriander, chopped
      1 tb Oil
      1 ea Dash sesame oil for noodles
    1/2 lb Shrimp, shelled deveined
      2 tb Scallions, minced

MMMMM----------------------SHRIMP MARINADE---------------------------
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Chinese cooking wine
    1/4 ts White Pepper

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      3 tb Fresh ginger, grated
      1 ea Egg yolk
      2 ts Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Soy sauce
      1 tb Cream
      1 ea Small garlic clove, crushed
      1 ts Egg white
    2/3 c  Vegetable oil (not olive)
  2 1/2 tb Sesame oil
 
  Mix the marinade ingredients in a small bowl and add shrimp.  Blanch
  the noodles, rinse under cool water and sprinkle with sesame seed
  oil, toss, and set aside. (You may want to trim noodles with scissors
  to about 4 inches in length, to make serving easier.)  Blanch whole
  snow peas and set aside.  Heat wok, add 1 tablespoon oil, when oil is
  hot, add shrimp and stir-fry until pink.  Set aside.
  
  DRESSING:  In a blender or food processor, mix ginger, garlic, egg
  yolk, egg white, and lemon.  Slowly drizzle in oil.  Mix in soy and
  cream.  Set aside.  Toss noodles, shrimps, and snow peas.  Mix in
  dressing to tastee. Garnish with scallions and coriander.  Serve at
  room temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Chicken Breasts in Raspberry Vinegar Marinade
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 ea Chicken breasts halves
    1/4 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ea Shallot, finely chopped
      1 x  Black pepper
    1/2 c  Raspberry or wine vinegar
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/2 ts Dried tarragon leaves
 
  Remove excess fat from chicken breasts; place them in sealable
  plastic bag or non-aluminum bowl.  Combine remaining ingredients;
  pour evenly over chicken breasts.  Seal bag or cover bowl; marinate
  in refrigerator 4 hours or overnight.  Turn occaisionally. Remove
  chicken from marinade. Arrange in one layer in large, shallow
  microwaveable dish, with thicker parts toward outer edges.  Pierce
  skin in several places with sharp knife. Cover with waxed papper.
  Microwave at high 4 minutes per pound.  Turn over and rearrange
  part-way through cooking. Transfer immediately to preheated grill,
  skin side up, over low heat. Turn often for even grilling. Cook until
  tender and juices run clear when chicken is pierced with fork, 10 to
  20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Roll Hors D'oeuvre
 Categories: Appetizer, Fish, Londontowne
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Backfin crabmeat
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
 
  Season slightly with your choice of the following: salt cream onion
  sherry pepper              tabasco             mustard
  :          Worcestershire Remove all cartilage from crabmeat. Very
  gently mix crab with cream cheese, being careful not to break the
  pieces. Shape into a log, sprinkle with parsley, chill, and serve
  with crackers. Mrs. James Olfson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus with Toasted Pine Nuts & Lemon Vinaigrette
 Categories: Vegetable, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Asparagus, fresh spears
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ea Clove garlic, crushed
    1/2 ts Basil, dried whole
      1 x  Pepper, freshly ground
      3 tb Pine nuts
      1 tb Lemon juice, fresh
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Oregano, dried whole
 
  Snap off tough ends of asparagus. Remove scales from stalks with
  knife or vegetable peeler, if desired. Place spears in a steaming
  rack over boiling water; cover and steam 4-5 minutes or until spears
  are crisp-tender. Transfer to a serving platter. Sautee pine nuts in
  a small skillet over medium heat 2-3 minutes, until browned. Set
  aside. Combine olive oil and remaining ingredients in a medium
  saucepan; stir with a wire whisk to blend. Cook over medium heat 2-3
  minutes or until thoroughly heated, stirring constantly. Pour over
  asparagus. Sprinkle with pine nuts. Let stand to room temperature
  before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Soda Bread #1
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  3 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Bicarbonate of soda
  1 1/4 c  Buttermilk:  to 2 1/2 c *
 
  * You will need somewhere between these two amounts of buttermilk,
  depending on how much liquid your flour tends to absorb. Try to avoid
  using regular milk: if you must, use baking powder instead of
  bicarbonate of soda. -- Lightly grease a heavy skillet (if making
  "soda farl", the flat version of soda bread) or preheat the oven to
  450 F (if making "soda cake", the round, more breadlike version.)
  Sift the dry ingredients together into a large bowl; make sure the
  soda is evenly distributed. Make a well in the center of the dry
  mixture and add about half the buttermilk. Stir until you have a
  raggy dough that is very squashy but which looks more or less dry.
  Add more liquid sparingly until you achieve this texture. Blend until
  all the flour has achieved this consistency; then turn out
  immediately onto a lightly floured board and knead ***for no more
  than a minute or a minute and a half***. Overkneading makes this
  bread very tough, and it's very easy to overdo it. If making soda
  cake, shape the dough into a circle about 8-9 inches across and about
  an inch and a half thick. Cut a cross about on the top, about half an
  inch deep, and place on a floured baking sheet. Bake at 450 F for
  45-50 minutes. If making soda farl, shape the dough into a circle
  about 9 inches by one inch thick and cut into four wedges or "farls":
  place in the preheated skillet, with cut edges about half an inch
  apart. Cook slowly on the stovetop over low-to-medium heat: it should
  take about 20 minutes for the farls to puff up and turn a light brown
  on the pan side. Turn them and cook for another 20 minutes. -- For a
  softer crust on either soda cake or soda farl, wrap in a dishtowel
  after baking. -- For more information on making sodabread and its
  variations, please see the file "SODABRED.TXT" included with this
  zipfile.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Soda Bread #2 Monica Sheridan
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      4 c  White flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Buttermilk or sweet milk
 
  Rub the butter into the flour. Add the salt and soda, mix all well
  together by running the dry ingredients through your fingers.
  
  Add the buttermilk (or sweet milk) and stir into a soft dough with a
  wooden spoon. With your floured hands, knead the dough lightly into a
  ball and turn out onto a lightly floured baking sheet.
  
  Flatten the dough into a circle 1 1/2 inches thick with the palm of
  your hand. Make a cross in the center with a floured knife.
  
  Bake at 425 degrees for 30 to 35 minutes.
  
  From The art of Irish cooking" by Monica Sheridan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Whiskey Soda Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------BREAD--------------------------------
      4 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking Soda
    1/4 c  Butter, chilled
      1 c  Raisins or currants (option)
    1/2 c  Honey, liquid
    1/4 c  Irish Whisky or buttermilk

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      2 ts Irish Whisky
      2    Ilk
 
  BREAD:  In large bowl, combine flour, salt and baking soda.  With
  pastry blender or two knives, cut in butter until mixture resembles
  coarse crumbs. Stir in raisins or currants (if using).  In separate
  bowl, combine buttermilk, honey and whisky.  Add all at once to dry
  ingredients; stir just until no dry spots remain.  Turn dough out
  onto lightly floured surface.  Knead lightly 1 minute (too much
  handling will toughen loaves, while too little will inhibit rising.)
  Divide dough in half and shape each half into an 8 in (20 cm) round.
  Place in two greased 8 in (1.2 L) round cake pans.  With floured
  knife, cut a cross 1/2 in deep in each loaf.
  GLAZE:  In small bowl, combine whisky and milk.  Brush loaves with
  glaze.
   Bake in 350F (180C) oven 35 to 40 minutes or until loaves sound
  hollow when tapped on bottoms.  Remove from pans; let cool on wire
  racks.  Cut into wedges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Brown Bread #1 Monica Sheridan
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Stone Ground
           Whole wheat flour
      2 c  White flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Buttermilk or sweet milk
 
  Mix the whole wheat flour throughly with the white flour, salt, and
  soda.
  
  Make a well in the center and gradually mix in the liquid. Stir with a
  wooden spoon. You may need lass, or more liquid - it depends on the
  absorbent quality of the flour. The dough should be soft but
  managable.
  
  Knead the dough into a ball in the mixing bowl with your floured
  hands. Put on a lightly floured baking sheet and with the palm of
  your hand flatten out in a circle 1 1/2 inches thick. With a knife
  dipped in flour, make a cross through the center of the bread so that
  it will easily break into quarters when it is baked.
  
  Bake at 425 degrees for 25 minutes, reduce the heat to 350 degrees
  and bake a further 15 minutes.
  
  If the crust seems too hard, wrap the baked bread in a damp tea cloth.
  Leave the loaf standing upright until it is cool.
  
  The bread should not be cut until it has set - about 6 hours after it
  comes out of the oven.
  
  From "The Art of Irish Cooking" by Monica Sheridan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Brown Bread #2 Monica Sheridan
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Stone Ground
           Whole wheat flour
      2 c  White flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Buttermilk or sweet milk
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Sugar
 
  Mix the whole wheat flour throughly with the white flour. Rub the
  butter into the flours. Add the salt, and soda.
  
  Make a well in the center and gradually mix in the liquid. Stir with a
  wooden spoon. You may need less, or more liquid - it depends on the
  absorbent quality of the flour. the dough should be soft but
  managable.
  
  Knead the dough into a ball in the mixing bowl with your floured
  hands.
  
  Put in on a lightly floured baking sheet and with the palm of your
  hand flatten out in a circle 1 1/2 inches thick. with a knife dipped
  in flour, make a cross through the center of the bread so that it
  will easily break into quarters when it is baked.
  
  Bake at 425 degrees for 25 minutes, reduce the heat to 350 degrees
  and bake a further 15 minutes.
  
  If the crust seems too hard, wrap the baked bread in a damp tea cloth.
  Leave the loaf standing upright until it is cool.
  
  The bread should not be cut until it has set - about 6 hours after it
  comes out of the oven.
  
  From "The Art of Irish Cooking" by Monica Sheridan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shepards Pie
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Cold, leftover roast, lamb,
           Beef, veal, pork orn
           Combination of these meats
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes
  1 1/2 oz 1 1/2 T butter or margarine
    1/2 oz Flour
    1/4 pt Meat stock or milk
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Milk
 
  Mince the cold meat, removing all fat, skin and gristle first. Cook
  potatoes, peeled and cut in halves, until soft enough for mashing.
  
  Melt 1 tablespoon butter or maragrine in a saucepan and stir in the
  four. To this add slowly stirring, 1/4 pint meat stock or milk. When
  smooth and fairly thick and just to the point of boiling, stir in the
  minced meat. Stir over a low heat for 3 minutes, seaoning with the
  salt and pepper to taste. Pour into a flat oven proof dish and
  refrigerate.
  
  Meanwhile, mash the potatoes, season and stir in 1/2 teaspoon butter
  or margarine, and a little milk and whick with a fork until smooth.
  Set aside until the minced meat is cool enough to have solidified and
  formed a solid surface. If you add the potatoes to hot mince, it will
  sink into it.
  
  When cool, spread the potatoes about an inch thick all over the dish,
  working lightly with a fork. Dot with pieces of butter or cover with
  grated cheese, if liked. Bkae in a 400 degree oven for 30 minutes.
  
  This dish may be prepared in the morning and left for cooking in the
  evening wothout harm. Cabbage is the best vegetable to accompany this
  dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Original Irish Coffee
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Coffee, fresh brewed
      3 x  Sugar cubes
      3 tb Irish whiskey (1 jigger)
 
  Pour coffee into large mug.  Add sugar and stir to dissolve.  Add
  whiskey and stir to combine.  Top with whipped cream and serve.
  
    -- from THE BUENA VISTA, San Francisco, California
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Original Chex Party Mix
 Categories: Appetizer, Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/4 ts Seasoned salt
  4 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      8 c  Chex cereals (mixed)
      1 c  Mixed nuts
      1 c  Pretzels
 
  1>. In a small microwave-safe bowl butter on HIGH. Add seasoned salt
  and Worcestershire sauce; mix well. 2>. Pour cereals, nuts and
  pretzels into 2 gal. resealable plastic bag. Pour butter mixture over
  cereal mixture. Seal top of bag and shake until pieces are evenly
  coated. 3>. Pour contents of bag into large microwave-safe bowl.
  Microwave on HIGH 5 to 6 minutes, stirring every 2 minutes. Spread on
  absorbent paper to cool. Store in airtight container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Rice:
 Categories: Rice, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pt Dairy Sour Cream
    1/2 lb Monterey Jack Cheese
      4 oz Chopped green peppers, cut
           Into strips (1 cn.)
      3 c  Cooked seasoned rice
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
 
  1>. Combine sour cream, chilies and salt. 2>.In 13 x 9-inch baking
  pan, layer 1 cup cooked rice, 1/2 sour cream-chili mixture and 1/2
  cheese strips. Repeat layers and top with remaining cup of rice. Bake
  in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) for 25 minutes. Sprinkle with
  Parmesan cheese and top with Mariachl meatballs and sauce. Continue
  baking for 5 minutes or until cheese melts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Forest Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Baked pastry shell
      4 oz Unsweetened baking chocolate
     14 oz Sweetened CONDENSED milk
      1 ts Almond extract
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream, whipped
     21 oz Can cherry pie filling
           Toasted almonds (optional)
 
  1>. In a heavy saucepan, over medium-low heat, melt chocolate with
  sweetened condensed milk. Remove from heat; stir in extract. Pour into
  large bowl; cool or chill thouroghly. Beat until smooth. Fold in
  whipped cream. Pour into prepared pastry shell. Chill 4 hours or
  until set. Serve with pie filling. Garnish with almonds if desired.
  Refrigerate leftovers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Chicken Broccoli Noodles
 Categories: Poultry, Pasta, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 pk Ramen noodles (chicken)
      1 cn Cream of Mushroom Soup
    1/2    Soup can milk
  1 1/2 c  Cubed cooked chicken
  1 1/2 c  Cooked broccoli flowerets
    1/2 c  Quartered cherry tomatoes
           (optional)
 
  1>. In saucepan, cook noodles according to package directions. Add
  seasoning packets; drain off most of liquid. 2>. Stir in Cream of
  Mushroom Soup and milk. Heat through, stirring often. 3>. Stir in
  tomatoes (optional).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Campbell's Paprika Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      4    Skinless, boneless chicken
           Breast halves
      1 c  Cream of mushroom soup
      2 tb Paprika
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
    1/3 c  Sour cream
           Hot cooked noodles & parsley
 
  1>. In skillet, melt butter and brown chicken 10 minutes or until
  browned. Remove; set aside. Spoon off fat. 2>. In skillet, combine
  soup, paprika and pepper. Heat to boiling. Return chicken to skillet.
  Cover; cook over low heat 5 minutes or until chicken is no longer
  pink, stirring often. 3>. Stir in sour cream. Heat through. Serve
  over noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Classic Green Bean Bake
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Cream of Mushroom Soup
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Soy sauce
           Dash pepper
      4 c  Cooked green beans
      1 cn French-fried onions
 
  1>. In 1 1/2 quart casserole, combine soup, milk, soy sauce and
  pepper. Stir in beans and 1/2 can onions. 2>. Bake at 350 deg.F 25
  minutes or until hot; stir. Top with remaining onions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chunky Chicken Rice Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Rice, Chicken
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      1 c  Cooked cubed chicken
      1 ts Oil for frying
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Water
     10 oz Frozen mixed vegetables
    1/2 ts Poultry seasoning
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Minute Rice
      1 tb Dried parsley
 
  1>. In a skillet, fry chicken in hot oil until browned. Add broth,
  water, vegetables (thawed) and seasonings. 2>. Bring to a boil.
  Reduce heat to low, cover and simmer 5 minutes. Stir in Minute Rice
  and parsley; cover, remove from heat. Let stand 5 minutes before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dudley Eppel's Hot Cider-Cranberry Punch
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 c  Apple cider
      4 c  Cranberry juice cocktail
      3    Cinnamon sticks
      4    Cloves, whole
      3    Strips orange peel
      1 c  Dark rum
 
  1>. Put cider,cranberry juice, cinnamon, cloves and orange peel into a
  large pot. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce heat and
  simmer, uncovered 25 to 35 minutes. 2> Line a strainer with
  cheesecloth and strian punch. Put 1 to 2 tablespoons of rum into each
  mug, then fill to the rim with hot punch.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Vegetable Pizza
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetable
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      2 c  Pillsbury Crescent Rolls
      8 oz Sour cream
  1 1/2 tb Prepared horseradish
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 c  Fresh mushrooms, chopped
      1 c  Chopped, seeded tomatoes
      1 c  Small broccoli florets
    1/2 c  Chopped green peppers
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions
 
  1>. Heat oven to 375 deg.F. Separate dough into 4 long rectangles.
  Place rectangles crosswise in an ungreased 15 x 10 x 1-inch baking
  pan; presss over bottom and 1 inch up the sides. Seal perforations.
  Bake 14 to 19 minutes or until golden brown. Cool completely. 2>.
  Blend sour cream, horseradish, salt and pepper until smooth. Spread
  evenly over crust. Top with remaining ingredients. Cut into
  appetizer-size pieces. Refrigerate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Latkes
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2 lg Idaho potatoes
      2 md Carrots
      2 md Zucchini
      1 lg Yellow onion, finely chopped
      2    Eggs
      2    Egg whites
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Flour
           Oil for frying
 
  1>. Pare and coarsley shred potatoes and carrots. Shred zucchini.
  Place in a bowl with onion. 2>. Combine eggs, egg whites, salt and
  pepper; stir into vegetable mixture. Sprinkle flour over top; stir to
  mix. 3>. Heat non-stick griddle, or heavy skillet to medium-high.
  Brush with oil. Drop batter by heaping tablespoonfuls onto griddle.
  Flatten slightly. Cook until browned. Turn, brown other side, adding
  a little oil as necessary. 4>. Drain on paper towels and keep warm
  until ready to serve. Serve with applesauce or cranberry sauce or
  combination for dipping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hidden Valley Ranch (R) Oyster Crackers
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1 pk Hidden Valley Ranch (R)
           Salad dressing mix
    1/2 ts Dill
    3/4 c  Salad oil
      5 c  Plain oyster crackers
 
  1>. Preheat oven to 250 deg.F. Combine salad dressing mix with dill
  and oil. Pour over crackers, stir to caot. Place in oven for 15 to 20
  minutes. Stir gently halfway through baking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chop and Corn Stuffing Bake
 Categories: Pork, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Campbell's Golden Corn Soup
    1/4 c  Celery, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 c  Corn bread stuffing
      4    Pork chops, boneless 3/4"
           Thick
      1 tb Packed brown sugar
      1 ts Spicy brown mustard
 
  1>. Combine soup, celery, onion, paprika and stuffing. In 9" greased
  pie plate, spoon stuffing mixture. Arrange chops over stuffing
  mixture; press lightly into stuffing. 2>. Combine sugar and mustard;
  spread evenly over chops. 3>. Bake at 400 deg.F. 30 minutes or until
  chops are fork tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower Gratin
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     10 c  Water
      1 c  Milk
      2 ts Salt
      2    Cauliflower heads, cut into
           Flowerets
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Drained capers
      1 ts Anchovy paste
    1/2 ts Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Fresh bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
 
  1>. Bring water, milk and salt to boiling in large saucepan. Add
  cauliflower, simmer 4 minutes or until crisp-tender. Drain; rinse the
  cauliflower under cold running water to stop cooking. 2>. Coat
  jelly-roll pan with non-stick cooking spray. Arrange cauliflower in
  single layer on pan. Combine oil, lemon juice, capers anchovy paste
  and mustard in blender. Whirl until smooth. Drizzle evenly over
  cauliflower. Sprinkle on bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese. 3>. Bake
  on upper shelf of preheated 350 deg.F oven for 45 minutes or until
  crisped and heated through. Serve hot or warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: String Bean Provencal
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      4 md Onions, chopped
      4    Garlic cloves, chopped
     28 oz Plum tomatoes in thick puree
      2 ts Leaf thyme, crumbled
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
      2 lb String beans, trimmed and
           Halved
 
  1>. Heat oil in Dutch oven over medium heat. Add onion and garlic;
  cook, covered, stirring occasionally, 8 minutes or until softened.
  Add tomatoes, thyme, sugar, salt and pepper, breaking tomatoes with
  back of spoon. Stir in the string beans. Simmer, covered, stirring
  occasionally, 25 to 35 minutes or until beans are tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glorified Pork Chops
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      6    Pork chops 1/2" thick
      1 cn Campbell's Cream of Celery
           Soup
    1/4 c  Water
 
  1>. In skillet, in hot oil, brown half the chops 10 minutes, or until
  browned. Repeat with remaing chops. Spoon off fat. 2>. In skillet,
  combine soup and water. Heat to boiling. Return chops to skillet.
  Cover; cook over low heat 10 minutes or until chops are no longer
  pink, stirring often. Serve over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Almondine
 Categories: Rice, Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 ts Butter
  1 1/4 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
  1 1/2 c  MINUTE (R) Instant Brown
           Rice
      1 c  Frozen green beans, thawed
      2 tb Toasted sliced almonds
    1/2 ts Dill
 
  1>. Cook and stir onion in butter until tender. Add broth, lemon
  juice and garlic powder. Bring to boil. 2>. Stir in rice. Return to
  boil. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 5 minutes. Remove from
  heat. 3>. Stir in green beans, almonds and dill; cover. Let stand 5
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curry Powder
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    3/4 c  Coriander seeds
    3/4 c  Mustard seeds
    1/4 c  Fennel seeds
      2 tb Celery seeds
      2 tb Ground mace
      2 tb Ground turmeric
  1 1/2 ts Ground cloves
      1 tb Crushed red pepper flakes
  1 1/2 ts Fresh ground black pepper
     15    Coins dried ginger
      3    Cloves dried garlic
 
  1>. Position rack in lower third of the oven. Preheat to 300 deg.F 2>.
  Combine coriander, mustard, cumin, fennel, celery, mace, turmeric annd
  cloves in 11 x 8 x 2 glass baking dish. Stir thouroughly 3>. Bake in
  preheated oven for 30 minutes, stirring occasionally. Cool
  completely. 4>. Stir in the red peeper flakes, dried ginger and dried
  garlic. 5>. Working in small batches, gring mixture finely in a spice
  mill, coffee grinder, mini food processor, or blender (mixture ground
  in a blender will not have as fine a texture). Divide evenly among
  jars. Seal tightly. Keeps fresh for up to 6 months. Makes 5 4-ounce
  jars.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old-Fashioned Peach Cobbler
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Light-brown sugar (packed)
    1/2 ts Cinnamon, ground
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 tb Lemon juice
      4 c  Sliced peeled peaches
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Whole-wheat flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/4 c  Butter (1/2 stick)
      2    Egg whites, beaten
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  1>. Preheat oven to 375 deg.F. Lightly grease 8 x 8x 2-inch baking
  dish. Combine brown sugar, cinnamon, lemon rind and juice in a large
  bowl. Add peaches; toss to mix. Transfer to prepared baking dish. 2>.
  Combine flours and baking powder on a piece of waxed paper. Beat
  together butter and sugar in a medium-sized bowl until light and
  fluffy. Beat in egg white. Add dry ingredients alternately with milk
  and vanilla, stirring just to combine. Drop batter by spoonfuls over
  peach mixture; Spread gently. 3>. Bake in preheated 375 degF. oven
  for 25 to 30 minutes or until peaches are tender and crust is golden
  brown. Serve warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Dijon
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      6    Whole chicken breasts,
           Skinned, boned & halved
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Yogurt
    1/4 c  Dijon mustard
    1/2 c  Fine bread crumbs
      1 ts Dried thyme, crumbled
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  1>. Preheat oven to 350 deg.F. Lightly grease 1 or 2 large baking
  sheets. 2>. Sprinkle chicken lightly with salt and pepper. Stir
  together yogurt and mustard in a small bowl. Spread mixture on bottom
  sides of chicken. Place on baking sheets, coated side down, leaving
  space between pieces. Spread mixture over top. Combine bread crumbs,
  thyme, 1/2 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Sprinkle over
  chicken. 3>. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes until golden-brown and no
  longer pink in the center.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blender Breakfast
 Categories: Breakfast
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Ripe banana, peach, or
           Nectarine, peeled, cut up.
    1/2 c  Milk OR
    1/2 c  Low-fat yogurt
      1 ts Honey, sugar or maple syrup
      1 tb Natural bran
 
  1>. Combine banana, milk, honey and bran in blender or food processor.
  Whirl until smooth. Pour into tall glass.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Cheese Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Blue cheese, crumbled
      1 c  Plain yogurt
      1    Clove garlic, finely chopped
           Pinch dry mustard
           Freshly ground pepper,
           To taste
 
  1>. Beat half the cheese with a fork in a small bowl until creamy.
  Stir in the yogurt, garlic, mustard and pepper. Sir in remaining
  cheese. Store, covered, in refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Dip #2
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh spinach
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
    1/2 c  Plain yogurt
    1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 c  Chopped green onions
      1 ts Salt
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
 
  1>. Remove stems and tough bits from spinach. Boil or steam until
  wilted. Drain thouroghly and chop. 2>. Combine spinach, sour cream,
  yogurt, parsley, green onion, salt and pepper in a small bowl. Cover
  and refrigerate for at least 4 hours or overnight to blend flavors.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Oil and Vinegar Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Apple juice
      1 ts Honey
    1/2 c  Parsley leaves
      2 ts Dried leaf basil, crumbled
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground black pepper
 
  1>. Combine all ingredients in a blender or food processor. Whirl
  until smooth. 2>. Place in jar with tight-fitting lid. Refrigerate
  for up to two weeks. Shake well before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Salad Stuffed Eggs
 Categories: Appetizer, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Eggs
      2    Celery stalks
      2    Green onions
    1/2    Sweet red pepper
    3/4 lb Leftover cooked turkey
      3 tb Mayonnaise
      2 tb Dijon mustard
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  1>. Place eggs with enough water to cover in medium-sized saucepan.
  Bring to boil; reduce heat to simmer for 10 minutes. Drain; hold
  under cold running water to cool. Peel; halve crosswise. Remove yolks
  and reserve for another use. 2>. Cut celery, green onions, red pepper
  and turkey into 1-inch cubes. Place in food processor. Whirl with
  on-off pulses until finely chopped; do not overprocess. Scrape into
  medium-size bowl. Sit in mayonnaise, mustard, vinegar, sugar and
  salt. 3>. Spoon 1 rounded tablespoon into hollow of each egg half.
  Serve, or refrigerate up to 12 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French's Simply Venison
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Deer ham parts
           Adolph's Meat Tenderizer
           Coarsley grnd black pepper
           Squeezable soft margarine
 
  The secret to good venison is always to muscle the meat. Muscling
  means to remove each muscle individually. Once finished, the cook
  will have several cylindrical pieces resembling tenderloin. Place
  pieces in a Pyrex dish, sprinkle each side with meat tenderizer and
  coarsley ground black pepper. Puncture each side liberally with a
  sharp fork. Squeeze margarine on one side. Turn meat over and repeat
  process on other side. Broil on high heat for about 4 minutes. Turn
  meat over and broil until brown. Remember venison is not as good when
  it is overcooked.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clive Younghusband's Venison Stew
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 lb Venison (haunch, ham)
      3 c  Cheap red wine
  1 1/2 c  Red or white wine vinegar
        pn Ground allspice
      2    Whole bay leaves
      4 c  Celery, carrots, leeks,
           Roughly chopped
           Sugar
           Salt
      8 oz Jar of beef gravy
    3/4 c  Pearl onions, trimmed
    3/4 c  Fresh mushrooms
      2    Cloves, garlic, crushed
      2 pn Ground oregano
      1 lb Salt pork, diced
 
  1>. Pour half bottle of red wine and half the wine vinegar into a
  non-aluminum pan. Add bay leaves, allspice and vegetables. Do not
  season. Bring to a boil for 30 minutes. Cool to room temperature.
  This can be done overnight in the refrigerator but allow to return to
  room temperature before adding meat. Strain mixture through
  cheescloth. Discard the vegetables and spices in the cheesecloth. 2>.
  Add 2 tablespoons sugar and 2 tablespoons salt to the liquid. Cut
  venison into 2" cubes. Add to the strained mixture. Let mixture stand
  in the refrigerator for 24 hours. 3>. Saute mushrooms and onions
  until limp. Add gravy, garlic, oregano and the remaining red wine.
  4>. Fry salt pork until crisp. Drain. Add salt pork to Mushroom/gravy
  mixture. 5>. Remove venison from marinade. Throw away marinade. 6>.
  Saute venison until brown. Add to mushroom/gravy mixture. Place
  mixture in oven-proof casserole and cover. Bake at 350 deg. F for 2
  hours or until venison checks done. 7>. Serve stew over wild rice
  with cranberry sauce on the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Herb Lamb Roast
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Boneless center-cut leg of
           Lamb
    1/2 ts Finely shredded lemon peel
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Dried rosemary
    1/4 ts Dried crushed thyme
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 c  Plain yogurt
      1 tb Cornstarch
    3/4 ts Beef boullion granules
 
  1>. Trim fat from lamb; cut four evenly spaced 1" deep slits in the
  surface. Combine lemon peel, juice, rosemary, thyme and pepper; rub
  onto meat and into slits. Place meat on the rack of a roasting pan.
  Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest portion. Roast in 325
  deg.F oven for 1 1/2 to 1 3/4 hours or until the thermometer
  registers 150 degrees 150 degrees F (medium). 2>. For sauce, reserve
  pan juices; skim fat. Add water, if neccesary, to measure 2/3rds cup
  liquid total. In a medium saucepan stir together yogurt, cornstarch
  and bouillion granules. Stir in juice mixture. Cook and stir until
  thickened and bubbly. Cook and serve with sliced meat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Jerky
 Categories: Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Flank steak
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Honey
      1    Pinch pepper
      4 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      1    Pinch salt
 
  Put steak in freezer for about half an hour, just until firm.  Slice
  steak across grain, about 1/4-inch thick.  Combine remaining
  ingredients and marinate steak strips in this for at least 2 hours.
  Place slices on rack in pan and dry in oven at 150 degrees, 12 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken and giblets, cut up
      1 tb Salt
      4    Carrots, chopped
      6    Celery stalks w/leaves, chop
      1    Onion, med., chopped
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 c  Rice or noodles
 
  Put chicken pieces in large pot with water to cover.  Add salt and
  bring to a boil. Reduce heat to simmer and skim off fat. Add
  vegetables and garlic, cover and cook until tender.  Remove chicken
  and either serve separately or dice and return to soup.  Season to
  taste.  Add rice or noodles and cook until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Kabobs
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------KABOB--------------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Bass / lean fish, cubed
     16    Mushroom caps
      2    Green peppers, cut in chunks
     16    Chunks pineapple
      3    Onions, cut in chunks
      3    Firm tomatoes, cut in wedges

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Oil
      1    Pinch Cayenne
    1/4 ts Powdered mustard
 
  Combine ingredients to make marinade and shake well.  Marinate fish
  for at least 1 hour.  Thread onto skewers alternating fish with fruit
  and vegetables. Brush kebabs with remaining marinade. Place skewers
  on grill 4 inches above coals. Cook only until edges of fish begin to
  curl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fudge # 2
 Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      2    Squares unsweetened choc.
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts (Opt.)
    1/8 c  Chopped candied cherries
 
  Butter a shallow dish and set aside.  Combine sugar, salt and milk in
  a large saucepan. Add chocolate and cook over low heat until
  chocolate is melted. Stirring occasionally, increase heat and bring
  to full rolling boil. Continue cooking until it reaches soft ball,
  234 degrees F on your candy thermometer. Remove from heat and add
  butter. Let cool to about 130 degrees.  Add vanilla and beat until
  fudge begins to thicken. RAPIDLY fold in walnuts and cherries (if
  desired), and INSTANTLY turn the mixture into buttered dish.  It's
  ready to eat almost immediately. Cut into squares and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Blueberry Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Sifted flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Butter
    2/3 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Bananas, mashed
      1 c  Blueberries
 
  Sift together flour, baking powder, soda, and salt.  Set aside.  Cream
  butter and gradually beat in sugar until light and fluffy.
  
  Beat in eggs one at a time.  Add flour mixture and banana alternately
  in three parts. Gently stir in blueberries. Turn into oiled 9 x
  5-inch loaf pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 50 minutes. Turn out of pan
  to cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Michele's Triple C Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 c  Butter, softened
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Dark brown sugar
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Unbleached flour
      2 tb Unbleached flour
    3/4 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Pecans, chopped
 
  Cream butter, sugar and brown sugar until well-blended.  Add eggs,
  one at a time, blending well.  Mix in vanilla.
  
  Sift together flour, soda and salt.  Add to butter mixture.  Stir
  until mixed. Add chocolate chips and pecans.
  
  Drop by teaspoonfuls onto well-greased cookie sheet.  Bake at 350
  degrees for 12 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swingers
 Categories: Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Ground round
  1 1/2 c  Onion, coarsely chopped
  1 1/2 c  Green pepper, coars chopped
  1 1/2 c  Tomatoes, coarsely chopped
      2 c  Cheddar cheese, cubed
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Wheat germ
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 c  Mushrooms, sliced
      1 c  Sliced green onions
 
  Mix all ingredients.  Shape into patties.  Refrigerate 2 to 3 hours.
  Press patties together to prevent crumbling.  Cook 10 minutes on each
  side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet and Sour Meatloaf
 Categories: Beef, Meatloaf
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Tomato sauce (1 can)
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Mustard
      2 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
    1/4 c  Onion, minced
    1/4 c  Crushed crackers
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Combine first 4 ingredients to make sauce.  Combine remaining
  ingredients, kneading together with hands.  Add 1/2 tomato sauce
  mixture.  Put in loaf pan. Pour remaining sauce over loaf. Bake at
  400 degrees for 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Kugel
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      9    Potatoes, grated
      4    Slices bacon
    1/2    Onion, chopped
      1 c  Milk, boiled
      1    Egg, beaten
      2 tb Sour cream (heaping)
      1    Dash Salt
      1    Dash pepper
 
  Put potatoes into colander and press out juices.  Cook bacon and keep
  the fat. (Vegetarians omit meat.) Combine potatoes, bacon, onion and
  hot bacon fat, and pour into a 9 x 13-inch baking dish. Pour milk
  over top. Pour on egg and sour cream. Salt and pepper to taste. Bake
  at 350 degrees for 1 hour or until light brown on top. Serve
  immediately or let flavors blend overnight.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Secret Kiss Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped fine
      1    Pkg chocolate kisses
      1 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Beat butter, sugar and vanilla at medium speed until light and
  fluffy.  Add flour and nuts on low speed until well-blended.  Chill
  dough 2 hours.  For each cookie, use about 1 T of dough to encase one
  candy piece completely. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake at 350
  degrees until set but not brown, about 8- 10 minutes. Remove and roll
  in powdered sugar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 tb Cinnamon
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped
    3/4 c  Chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      1 pt Sour cream
      2 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 c  Salad oil
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Graham crackers, crushed
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
 
  Combine cinnamon, walnuts, chips and white sugar; set aside.  Blend
  eggs, sour cream, brown sugar and salad oil until creamy; add
  vanilla. Combine cracker crumbs, baking powder and soda; stir into
  batter. Pour half the batter into an oiled 13 x 9-inch baking pan.
  Sprinkle batter with half the cinnamon/sugar mix. Pour rest of batter
  in pan. Sprinkle top with remaining cinnamon/sugar mix. Bake at 350
  degrees for 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Strips with Artichokes
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Turkey
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Paprika
    3/4 lb Turkey breast, sliced
           And pounded
      6 oz Marinated artichoke hearts
      1    Onion, sliced
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Chiken broth
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      8 oz Noodles, cooked
 
  Combine flour, salt, pepper and paprika.  Coat meat slices with it.
  Pour artichoke liquid into a frying pan and cook on medium heat until
  bubbly. Add meat slices and brown 3-5 minutes; remove from pan. Add
  onion and butter to pan. Saute 5 minutes. Add broth and stir in lemon
  juice, cheese, and sour cream. Add turkey and heat through. Serve
  over noodles. Garnish with artichoke hearts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Lemonade
 Categories: Beverage
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Honey
      1 c  Hot water
    3/4 c  Lemon juice
      8 c  Cold water
 
  Stir honey and hot water over low heat until blended.  Let cool and
  add lemon juice and cold water. Pour into iced glasses.
  
  The honey/water syrup may be refrigerated and used to make lemonade a
  glass at a time. To serve, mix 4 T syrup to 1 1/2 T lemon juice and 1
  c water per person.  Pour into iced glasses.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Sour Cream Waffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes, Waffles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Egg, separated
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
      1    Banana, mashed
 
  Sift together dry ingredients.  Set aside.  Mix together beaten egg
  yolk, sour cream, milk, butter and banana. Add to flour mixture,
  mixing well. Fold in whipped egg white, and pour into oiled waffle
  iron or oiled pan. Cook each side until brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamed Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      5 tb Butter
      4    Onions, chopped
      4 c  Carrots, sliced
      4 tb Flour
      5 c  Beef broth
  3 1/2 c  Milk
      1    Pinch salt
      1    Pinch pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Melt butter in kettle.  Saute vegetables until onions are clear.
  Blend in flour.  Mix in broth and stir until smooth.  Simmer covered
  30 minutes. Put soup through blender to puree.  Stir in milk.  Adjust
  the seasonings.  Stir until hot, but not boiling.  Ladle into bowls
  and sprinkle nutmeg on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Bread or Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  3 1/2 c  Pumpkin, pureed
      1 c  Butter
      2    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Flour
  2 1/2 c  Pastry flour
      6 ts Baking powder
    1/4 c  Molasses
      1 ts Cloves
      2 ts Nutmeg
      2 c  Walnuts, broken
      2 c  Honey
      1 c  Cream
      4 tb Vanilla
 
  Combine pumpkin, butter, and eggs.  Add remaining ingredients and
  stir. Pour into oiled loaf pans or muffin tins. Bake at 350 degrees
  for 30 minutes or until tops brown. To give as gifts, bake in oiled
  empty coffee or tea tins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Canadian Flapjacks
 Categories: Breakfast, Pancakes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      1    Pinch sea salt
  1 1/2 c  Apple juice or milk
      2 tb Oil
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Honey
      2 ts Baking powder
      1    Pippin apple, grated
 
  Combine all ingredients except apple with mixer.  Add apple and mix by
  hand. Spoon into oiled fry pan, at medium heat. Turn when bubbles
  appear and harden. Brown other side. Serve immediately with your
  choice of topping.  We like honey and maple syrup best.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Apple Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1    Can (6.5 oz) tuna
      3 c  Torn lettuce
      1    Apple
      1    Stalk celery, chopped
  4 1/4 oz Chopped olives (opt.)
    1/4 c  Cheese, grated (opt.)
      1    Boiled egg, chopped
      3 tb Thousand Island dressing
 
  Drain tuna.  Tear lettuce into bite-sized pieces.  Core apple and cut
  into eight wedges.  Cut each wedge crosswise into 4 or 5 chunks.
  Each apple piece will still have peel on one edge. Red apples look
  especially nice.
  
  Combine tuna, lettuce, apple and chopped celery.  Add optional
  ingredients as desired. Add Thousand Island dressing and toss until
  well blended. Serve with crackers or specialty bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Persian Kebabs
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Lamb, cut in 1-inch cubes
    1/2 c  Salad oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper, fresh
      6    Bay leaves
      4    Small tomatoes, halved
      2    Green Pepper, cubed
      2    Small egplants, cubed
 
  Prepare marinade: combine oil, lemon juice, garlic, salt, pepper and
  bay leaves.  Marinate meat cubes for 4 to 5 hours in refrigerator.
  
  Thread meat, vegetables, and bay leaves on skewers.  Brush with
  marinade. Broil 3 minutes on each side, or barbecue 5 minutes on each
  side.  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ratatouille
 Categories: Main dish, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 tb Olive oil
      1    Eggplant, cut in 1" cubes
      2    Zucchini cut in 1" cubes
      1 tb Olive oil
      2    Onions, coarsely chopped
      2    Green peppers, 1" cubes
      1 tb Garlic, chopped
      2    Sprigs fresh thyme (OR
           1/2 ts Dried thyme)
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Tomatoes, cut in 1" cubes
      1    Pkg Gruyere cheese (opt)
 
  Heat first amount of oil in large heavy skillet.  When quite hot, add
  eggplant; cook, stirring constantly, for about 3 minutes.  With a
  wooden spoon, remove eggplant to colander.  Next cook zucchini in
  skillet, stirring constantly, about 3 minutes. Remove to colander
  also. Add remaining oil to skillet; saute onion until clear. Add
  green pepper to skillet, and cook while stirring, for about 3
  minutes. Stir in garlic, thyme and bay leaf. Add drained eggplant and
  zucchini. Cook while stirring, for about 5 minutes. Add tomatoes,
  cover tightly, and cook for 20 minutes. Uncover and cook for about 10
  minutes to reduce liquid that will have accumulated. Serve hot or
  cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham Apple Pie
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Ham, cooked, chopped fine
      5    Green apples, chopped
      2    Onions, chopped fine
      1 ts Sage
      1 tb Mixed vegetable seasoning
      1    Cube bouillon (dissolved in
           1 c water)
      4    Potatoes, cooked and mashed
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  In deep baking dish, arrange alternate layers of ham and apples.
  Sprinkle each layer with onion and seasonings.  Moisten each layer
  with bouillon. Over top, cover with layer of thick mashed potatoes.
  Brush potato peaks with melted butter.  Bake at 325 degrees for 1 1/2
  to 2 hours until ham is thoroughly heated and potato peaks are
  browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Paella
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Seafood, Poultry, Paella
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Chicken broiler, cut up
      2    Cloves garlic
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 lb Raw shrimp
      4    Sliced tomatoes
      1 lb Peas
     12    Artichoke hearts
  1 1/2 c  Brown rice
      6    Strands saffron
      1 c  Onion, diced
      1    Green bell pepper, diced
      1    Red bell pepper, diced
      1 ts Paprika
      1 c  White wine
      2 c  Water
 
  Brown chicken and garlic in oil; remove chicken to large casserole
  dish. Add shrimp, tomatoes, peas and artichoke hearts to dish.  In
  oil used to brown chicken, saute rice, saffron, onion, green and red
  bell peppers for 7 minutes.  Add to casserole dish, sprinkle on
  paprika, and pour in wine and water.  Bake uncovered at 350 degrees
  for 1 hour, or until rice is ready.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Butter for Seafood or Artichokes
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 ts Paprika
      1 tb Green scallions
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Marjoram
    1/4 ts Basil
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      3 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
 
  Melt butter over medium heat and stir in remaining ingredients.
  Simmer 5 minutes.  Serve warm.  May be refrigerated and reheated when
  needed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Kiev #2
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      3    Cloves garlic, diced
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Mixed vegetable seasoning
      2    Chicken breasts
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Scallions, diced fine
      3 c  Cracker crumbs
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  In a fry pan, melt butter and saute garlic with lemon juice and
  seasoning.
  
  Using flavorizer, inject breasts with butter mix.  (The flavorizer
  can be purchased at any kitchen supply store.  It looks much like the
  needle a doctor uses for injections, and it's use is also similar.)
  
  Add remaining liquid to eggs and beat.  In a separate bowl, combine
  scallions, cracker crumbs, and Parmesan cheese.  Dip breasts in egg
  mixture, then into cracker mixture. Bake at 350 degrees for 30
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Time
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Potatoes, in 1/2" slices
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1    Onion, minced
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Oregano leaves
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Parsley
  1 1/2 c  Cracker crumbs
      1 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Place potato slices in covered vegetable steamer; steam 12 minutes;
  drain and cool.  Mix together mayonnaise, onion, soy sauce, oregano,
  garlic and parsley.  Frost each potato slice with this mixture, and
  then dip it into cracker crumbs.  Bake on cookie sheets at 350
  degrees for 10 minutes. Sprinkle with Parmesan and serve hot.
  
  To make as a casserole, cover bottom of casserole with potato slices,
  spread on mayonnaise mixture, then sprinkle on crumbs. Continue in
  layers until all ingredients are used. Bake at 350 degrees for 1
  hour. Top with Parmesan and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mendocino Sole
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Fillets of sole
      1 ts Minced onion
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Seedless grapes
    1/4 c  Cognac
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Cream
    1/2 ts Mixed vegetable seasoning
 
  Wash and dry sole.  Set fillets in baking dish, side by side.
  Sprinkle on minced onion, lemon juice, and wine.  Cover and bake 15
  minutes at 350 degrees.  Meanwhile, slightly bruise grapes and
  marinate in cognac.   Make a sauce of butter, flour and cream; add
  mixed vegetable seasoning. Combine sauce with grapes and cognac.
  Pour over sole fillets and return to oven for 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Regency Salad
 Categories: Poultry, Salad, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      9 oz Frozen artichoke hearts
      2 c  Italian salad dressing
      3 c  Cooked, cubed chicken
    1/3 c  Sliced water chestnuts
    1/4 c  Slivered green olives
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Pecan halves
      1 pn Mixed vegetable seasoning
    3/4 c  Diced celery
 
  Cook artichoke according to package directions; drain.  Combine with
  salad dressing, chicken, water chestnuts, olives, and soy sauce.
  Cover and refrigerate at least 3 hours.
  
  Melt butter; add pecans and cook over low heat, stirring constantly
  until nuts begin to brown.   Drain nuts and sprinkle with vegetable
  seasoning; cool.
  
  Drain any liquid from chicken mixture.  Add celery just before
  serving. Serve on lettuce leaves and garnish with pecans.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodles and Apples
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Cooked noodles
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Grated Swiss cheese
      3 c  Sliced green apples
    3/4 c  Raisins
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Cloves
      3 tb Molasses
 
  Combine all ingredients and pour into well-oiled medium casserole.
  Cover and bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes.  Bake uncovered for 15
  minutes longer or until slightly browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Fish
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Curry powder
    1/4 ts Soy sauce
      4    Bananas, peeled & halved
           Lengthwise
      1 lb Fish fillets
      1 tb Oil
      3    Stalks celery, sliced
      4 tb Butter
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Mix together flour, curry powder, and soy sauce; coat bananas and
  fish with this; set aside.  Heat oil in skillet.  Stir-fry celery
  until crisp; set aside.  Add butter to oil; saute bananas until
  golden, about 1 minute on each side.  Sprinkle bananas with half of
  lemon juice; remove to serving dish.  Saute fish in oil/butter mix
  until fish comes easily away on a fork, about 3 minutes on each side.
  Sprinkle with remaining lemon juice.  Place on serving dish with
  bananas.  Spoon celery over fish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Pot Pie
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Turkey
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5    Potatoes, mashed
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 c  Diced turkey
      2 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Cooked peas, drained
      1 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
 
  Cook & mash potatoes, or used leftovers.  Stir in egg.  Spread in well
  oiled 9-inch pie pan. Bake at 375 degrees for 10 minutes. Combine
  mayonnaise and lemon juice; stir in turkey, celery, and peas. Spoon
  into potato crust. Top with cheese. Continue baking 15-20 minutes or
  until hot through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Beef a la Stroganoff
 Categories: Main dish, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1    Onion, chopped fine
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Soy sauce
  1 1/2 c  Beef bouillon
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Thinly sliced roast beef,
           Cooked
 
  Cook celery, onion and mushrooms in butter until tender.  Stir in
  flour and soy sauce.  Add bouillon; cook, stirring until thickened.
  Stir in sour cream.  Add beef and heat through.  Serve with hot
  cooked rice or noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey and Pecan Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Turkey
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
        Turkey and Pecan Casserole
  
  8 c turkey, cooked & cubed 1/2 tsp mixed vegetable seasoning 8 T
  butter 4 cloves garlic, minced 2 T scallions, chopped 6 T brandy 1 c
  white wine 2 T tomato paste 6 T whole wheat flour 1 c mushrooms,
  chopped 2 c broth 1 lb pecans 1 1/2 c sour cream 1/2 c fresh parsley,
  chopped
  
  Season turkey with mixed vegetable seasoning.  In skillet, melt 1/2 of
  butter and brown turkey; place turkey in ovenproof casserole with
  lid.  In same skillet, saute garlic and scallions.  Add brandy and
  wine; increase heat and boil about 1 minute.  Reduce heat to low and
  whisk in tomato paste, and flour. Cook, stirring until smooth. Add
  mushrooms and broth. Pour sauce over turkey in casserole. Add pecans.
  Bake covered 35 to 40 minutes or until turkey is tender. Remove from
  oven. Spoon about 2 cups of turkey sauce into bowl; stir in sour
  cream; return to casserole, stirring until thoroughly combined.
  Return to oven and bake covered about 10 minutes. Sprinkle with
  parsley and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Out-Of-The-Ordinary Chili
 Categories: Beef, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef, chicken, or turkey
      2 c  Water
      1 tb Chili powder
      1 tb Curry powder
      3    Tomatoes, diced
      4 c  Cooked kidney beans
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Bunch green onions, sliced
  1 1/2 c  Grated natural sharp cheese
 
  In a frying pan, saute meat until lightly browned.  Pour off
  drippings. Add water, chili, and curry powder; simmer 5 minutes.  Add
  tomatoes and beans; heat through.  Stir in onions.  Ladle into
  serving bowls and sprinkle on cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polish Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Polish sausage, 1/2" pieces
      3 tb Oil
  1 1/2 lb Beef, cubed
      2    Onions, sliced
      2 c  Mushrooms, sliced
      1 lb Sauerkraut, canned
      1 c  White wine
      8 oz Tomato sauce
      2 ts Soy sauce
      1 ts Caraway seeds
    1/4 ts Vegetable seasoning
 
  Saute sausage 15 minutes; remove to casserole.  Add oil to sausage
  drippings; brown beef in oil, 15 minutes; remove to casserole.  Saute
  onion; add to casserole. Saute mushrooms with sauerkraut and wine. Add
  tomato sauce, soy sauce, caraway seeds and vegetable seasoning. Add
  this to casserole also, mixing well.  Cover and bake at 375 degrees
  for 2 to 2 1/2 hours.  Stir casserole every 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: X's Spinach Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      2    Bunches spinach, washed,
           Drained, stems removed
      1    Onion, thinly sliced
      2    Eggs, hard cooked, chopped
      2    Tomatoes, cut into wedges
      4    Strips bacon, crumbled
      1 cn Asparagus spears

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Safflower oil
      1 ts Mustard
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Whole celery seeds
      1 tb Grated onion
 
  Prepare dressing first: blend together sugar, oil, mustard and salt.
  Add vinegar, celery seeds and grated onion; shake or beat well.
  Chill.
  
  Mix together all salad ingredients, except asparagus spears.  Pour
  chilled dressing over all and toss until well coated.  Arrange
  asparagus spears on top.  Chill well before serving.  It is best the
  next day.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Bread with Lemon Ice
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------BREAD--------------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      1    Lemon rind, grated

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice

MMMMM-------------------------LEMON ICE------------------------------
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Grated lemon rind
      1 c  Fresh lemon juice
      2    Egg whites (opt)
 
  Grease and flour a 9x5 loaf pan for each loaf of bread you are making.
  Combine sugar, milk, butter, and eggs; mix well.  Blend in flour,
  baking powder, salt and grated lemon rind.  Turn mixture into pan and
  bake 1 hour in preheated 350-degree oven.  Cool slightly, remove from
  pan, and set on foil.
  
  Meanwhile, prepare glaze.  Combine sugar and lemon juice in sauce
  pan. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves and glaze is hot.
  
  Pour hot glaze slowly over surface of bread.  Let bread cool
  completely before slicing.
  
  To prepare Lemon Ice, combine water and sugar in a saucepan.  Add
  rind and bring to a boil.  Simmer 5 minutes.  Let cool.  Add lemon
  juice and stir. Pour liquid into freezer trays (two for each loaf of
  bread) and freeze until set, but not hard. Place in food processor or
  blender. If desired, add egg whites (they will make the ice smooth
  and white), and beat until smooth. Refreeze for about 3 hours or
  until firm. When ready to serve, let stand for a few minutes before
  scooping out.
  
  Serve bread slices with a scoop of lemon ice on the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tostadas De Pollo Y Frijoles
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Tortillas
      2 c  Cooked, mashed black beans
           (or refried beans)
      2 c  Chicken, shredded
      1    Tomato, wedged
      1 c  String beans, cook & cool
      1    Head lettuce, shredded
      1    Green bell pepper, sliced
      2    Green onions, diced
      1 cn Plain green olives, chopped
      1 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
      2 tb Hot sauce
 
  Lay a tortilla on each plate; spread with a layer of beans.  Lay
  chicken on beans.  Toss together vegetables and cheese; and mound on
  top of chicken. Sprinkle hot sauce on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon for Supper
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Salmon steaks, 8-10 oz. each
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Vermouth
      2 tb Orange peel
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Mixed vegetable seasoning
      1    Large russet potato,
           Sliced paper thin
      2    Cloves garlic, diced
    1/2 c  Green onion, sliced
    1/4 c  Parsley, diced
 
  Wash salmon and pat dry.  In a sauce pan, melt butter in vermouth;
  stir in orange peel, lemon juice, and vegetable seasoning.  Place
  salmon in baking dish.  Brush each side of fish with butter mixture.
  Lay potato slices on top of fish.  Sprinkle on garlic, onion and
  parsley.  Wrap baking dish in foil, sealing tightly.  Place sealed
  dish over barbecue coals, and grill 10- 15 minutes or until fish
  flakes easily. Or, in the oven, bake covered at 325 degrees until
  fish flakes easily.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Chop Suey
 Categories: Asian, Main dish, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Uncooked chicken breast,
           Cut in 1" cubes
      1 tb Oil
      3    Cubes vegetable bouillon
    1/2 c  Unsweetened pineapple juice
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Horseradish
    1/2 c  Sliced celery
      1    Green pepper, sliced
    1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1    Tomato, diced
    1/4 c  Sliced green onions
  1 1/2 c  Fresh Chinese pea pods
      4 oz Water chestnuts (1 can)
      3 c  Fresh bean sprouts
 
  Pan fry chicken in oil.  Remove from heat and set aside.  In another
  pan, crush bouillon cubes and dissolve in pineapple juice.  Add soy
  sauce, ginger, horseradish, celery and green pepper; heat through.
  Combine chicken with tomato, green onions, pea pods and water
  chestnuts; stir-fry about 2 minutes. Pour over fresh bean sprouts,
  top with pineapple sauce; serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Escargots on Mushroom Caps
 Categories: Appetizer, French
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     18    Snails
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  White wine
      2 tb Chopped onion
      4    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1    Dash allspice
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Vegetable seasoning
    1/2 c  Butter
      3 tb Finely chopped parsley
      2 tb Minced green onions
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
     18    Mushroom caps
 
  Capture 18 snails.  Place them in a ventilated box with corn meal.
  With a sprayer bottle, spray the corn meal.  Keep them in this
  environment at least 72 hours. Remove the snails and wash them in
  cold water. Drop them into boiling water with bay leaf and let simmer
  15 minutes. Drain in colander and pick meat out of shell. Remove the
  fall or the tail end where the snail is attached to the shell. Wash
  snails in cold running water. Set aside. If you prefer, use canned
  snails, and rinse in cold water.
  
  In a sauce pan, combine white wine, onion, garlic, allspice, soy
  sauce and vegetable seasoning.  Add snails and cook over low heat 10
  minutes.  Remove and drain snails, reserving liquid.  To this liquid
  add butter, parsley and green onions.  Heat through; add nutmeg.
  Place mushroom caps in baking dish, top each with a snail, and pour
  liquid over all; bake at 450 degrees for 7 minutes.  Serve
  immediately with sliced french bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: South of the Border Stew
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Beef, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 lb Boneless round steak, cubed
      5    Zucchini, sliced thin
      3 c  Corn
      1 cn (4 oz) grn chilies, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Cumin
      1 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
    1/4 c  Chopped cilantro
 
  In a large skillet, melt butter.  Brown meat, a few pieces at a time.
  Remove from skillet as they brown.  Saute zucchini in skillet 7-10
  minutes. Return meat and add corn, chilies, garlic, salt, oregano and
  cumin. Simmer, stirring occassionally, about 12-15 minutes or until
  meat is tender.  Stir in cheese until melted.  Garnish with chopped
  cilantro and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indonesian Brisket of Beef
 Categories: Asian, Beef, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Beef brisket
      3    Cloves of garlic, diced
    1/2 lb Bacon
      3    Onions, sliced
      4 c  Cooked pinto beans
      1 c  Ketchup
      3    Carrots, sliced
      2    Hot peppers, diced
      3    Tomatoes, cubed
      2 c  Celery, sliced
      2 c  Corn
      1 ts Vegetable seasoning
 
  Boil brisket for 3 hours.  After 2 1/2 hours, combine garlic, bacon,
  onions, and beans; bake at 350 degrees for 1/2 hour. Add boiled
  brisket to baking ingredients; also add rest of ingredients; continue
  baking at 350 degrees for another 1/2 hour. Remove from oven; allow
  to cool; refrigerate. Serve the next day with rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Simply Sumptuous Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
      1    Large green pepper, seeded
           & chopped
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 cn (28 oz) stewed tomatoes
      1 pt Clam juice
      1 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Brown rice
      1 lb Cooked medium shrimp
      1 cn (6 1/2 oz) minced clams,
           Drained
      1 c  Feta (or mozzarella)
           Cheese, crumbled
 
  In large skillet, melt butter.  Add green pepper, onion and garlic;
  saute about 5 minutes.  Add tomatoes, clam juice, wine, water and
  rice.  Boil at medium heat 25-30 minutes until rice is cooked.  Add
  shrimp and clams. Reduce heat to simmer for 3 minutes.  Sprinkle
  cheese on top and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peachy Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken, cut up
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
      1 c  White wine
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Water
      8 c  Sliced peaches
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Roll chicken in flour; place in baking dish.  Melt together wine,
  butter, and water; pour over chicken.  Bake at 350 degrees for 30
  minutes.  Add peaches and walnuts.  Bake another 1/2 hour to finish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Rice and Vegetables
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Green chilies, diced
      1 c  Green bell pepper, diced
      1 c  Celery, diced
      1 c  Onion, diced
      4 tb Butter
      1 tb Honey
  1 1/2 c  Brown rice
      3 c  Water
      1    Apple, chopped
    1/2 c  Almonds, chopped
 
  Saute vegetables in butter and honey.  Add rice and continue to saute
  until onions are clear. Add water, and boil 5 minutes.  Turn heat to
  low; let rice absorb water, about 35 minutes. In last 5 minutes of
  cooking, add apple and almonds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Suffed Potatoes
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Baked potatoes
      3 tb Butter
    1/2    Bunch scallions, diced
      2 c  Cashews
      2    Tomatoes, diced
      1    Green bell pepper, diced
      2    Garlic cloves, diced
      2 c  Cheddar cheese, diced
 
  Bake potatoes at 350 degrees for about 1 hour, until soft when
  pierced with fork.  Cut each lengthwise; scoop out centers.  Place
  potato centers in fry pan with butter, scallions, cashews, tomato,
  bell pepper, and garlic. Saute 10 minutes.  Restuff potato skins with
  saute mixture.  Sprinkle on cheese, serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mideastern Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Oil
      2    Lemons, juiced
      2 tb Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Saffron
  2 1/2 lb Chicken, cut-up
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      1 cn (7 oz) green olives
      4 c  White wine
      1    Onion, diced
 
  Use blender to combine oil, lemon juice, garlic and saffron.  Rub this
  mixture on chicken pieces.  Place remaining ingredients in pan with
  chicken. Simmer covered 20-30 minutes. Serve with LEMON RICE.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab with Snow Peas
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Fresh crab meat, diced
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
    1/2 lb Fresh snow peas
      1 cn (8 oz) water chestnuts (OR
      1 c  Jicama, cut in 1/2" cubes)
    1/4 c  White wine
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Arrowroot
    1/4 c  Water
      4 c  Rice, freshly cooked
 
  Heat oil.  Add crab and simmer, stirring, 2 minutes.  Add garlic,
  snow peas and water chestnuts; simmer 5 minutes.  Stir together wine,
  soy sauce, arrowroot and water until arrowroot is dissolved.  Pour
  into cooking crab mixture and simmer another 2 minutes.  Serve
  immediately over hot rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Skillet
 Categories: Pork, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Red potatoes, cut in 1/2"
           Cubes
      4    Italian-style sausages, cut
           Into 1/4" cubes
      1    Onion, diced
      1    Bell pepper, into strips
      1    Red pepper, into lengths
 
  In sauce pan, cover potatoes and sausage with water; simmer, covered,
  until sausage is fully cooked, about 20 minutes.  Drain off water;
  add vegetables to potatoes and sausage in fry pan.  Simmer 10
  minutes, stirring occasionally.  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Divan
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Turkey
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Cream
      2 c  Diced turkey
      4    Spears broccoli, sliced
           Lengthwise
    1/2 ts Mixed vegetable seasoning
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
 
  In a sauce pan, melt butter and gradually stir in flour to make a
  smooth paste.  Slowly add cream and whisk until smooth.  Place turkey
  in baking dish, alternating with layers of broccoli spears.  Pour
  sauce over all and sprinkle on vegetable seasoning.  Top with
  Parmesan cheese.  Bake at 350 degrees for 20-30 minutes; cheese will
  be bubbling and slightly browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Huevos Mexicanos
 Categories: Breakfast, Cheese/eggs, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Onions, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, diced
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      2    Tomatoes, chopped
  2 1/2 ts Chili
      6    Eggs
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
      2    Tortillas
 
  In fry pan, combine onions, garlic and oil.  Heat gently for 5
  minutes. Add tomatoes and chili.  Meanwhile, in separate pan, poach
  eggs.  Heat tortillas by steaming them. Place tortillas on individual
  plates and top with poached eggs. Pour sauce over the top and
  sprinkle with cheddar cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tamale Casserole
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Yellow cornmeal
  1 1/2 c  Milk or water
      1    Egg
      1 lb Meat (chopped ham, chicken,
           Ground beef)
      2 tb Oil
      1    Onion
      3    Tomatoes, diced
    1/2 ts Oregano
      1 cn (7 1/2 oz) green olives,
           Sliced
      1 c  Cottage cheese (opt)
 
  Mix cornmeal, milk and egg in large bowl; set aside.  In skillet,
  brown meat in oil with onion, tomato and oregano. Pour off fat and
  add olives and cottage cheese; simmer 5 minutes.  Stir into cornmeal
  mix; turn into casserole dish; bake at 350 degrees, 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Celery
    1/2 c  Onion
    1/2 c  Parsley, grated
    1/2 c  Butter
      1    Box (10 oz) tofu
      2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Wild rice
    1/2 c  Short grain brown rice
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Rosemary
 
  In skillet, stir-fry celery, onion, and parsley in butter for 10
  minutes. Blend tofu and water together; add to skillet; also add wild
  rice, brown rice, lemon juice and rosemary; bring to a boil.  Reduce
  heat to low and let rice absorb moisture, about 30-40 minutes. Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops Vermont
 Categories: Pork, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Catsup
      1 c  Maple syrup
    2/3 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Water
      1    Bouillon cube
      1    Bay leaf
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
    3/4 ts Thyme
  1 1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4    Pork chops, 1 1/2" thick
 
  In sauce pan, combine all ingredients except pork chops.  Bring to a
  boil, then reduce heat and simmer uncovered for 30 minutes; stir
  occasionally. Meanwhile, bake chops 30 minutes at 375 degrees; pour
  sauce over chops. Bake 15-20 minutes more, spooning sauce over chops
  every 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Canadian Souffles
 Categories: Breakfast, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      3 tb Parmesan cheese, grated
      6    Eggs, separated
      8 oz Cream cheese (soft)
      1 c  Grated cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      3 tb Chopped pimento
      1 tb Chopped chives
    3/4 ts Dry mustard
    3/4 lb Canadian bacon, diced
 
  Butter bottom and sides of individual souffle dishes and sprinkle with
  Parmesan cheese.  Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored, about
  5 minutes.  Beat in cream cheese, cheddar cheese, sour cream,
  pimento, chives and mustard.  Using clean, dry beaters, beat egg
  whites until stiff. Gently, fold into yolk mixture; fold in Canadian
  bacon.  Turn souffle into souffle dishes.  Bake at 350 degrees 25-30
  minutes.  Souffle is done when a knife inserted in center comes out
  clean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Empenadas
 Categories: Poultry, Turkey, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Cooked turkey, cubed
  1 1/3 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
      1 cn (4 oz) grn chilies, drained
      1 c  Flour whole wheat
    1/4 c  Corn meal
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Water, cold
      1 tb Milk
      4 ts Corn meal for topping
 
  Mix together turkey, cheese and chilies; set aside.  In a different
  bowl, mix together flour, cornmeal and salt.  Cut in butter until
  particles are the size of small peas (a pastry blender makes this an
  easy job).  Sprinkle with water and mix with pastry blender or fork
  until pastry can be formed into a ball.  Add a little more water if
  necessary.
  
  Divide dough into balls, one ball for each two servings; divide turkey
  mixture into same number as dough.
  
  Turn one dough ball onto floured board and roll into an 11" square.
  Place on oiled cookie sheet.  Spoon one part of turkey mixture over
  1/2 of pastry, coming to 1 1/2" of the edge. Fold other half of
  pastry over it, and crimp edges to seal them. Repeat this procedure
  with each ball of dough.
  
  Brush turnovers with milk.  Sprinkle remaining corn meal on top.
  Bake at 400 degrees for 25 minutes or until golden brown.  Allow to
  cool slightly; slice into wedges to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arroz Con Pollo #2
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Tex/mexican, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 lb Chicken thighs & legs
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 tb Cilantro, chopped
    1/2 c  Onion, diced
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  White wine
      3    Tomatoes, diced
      1    Bouillon cube
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Oregano
      1 ts Mixed vegetable seasoning
    1/2 ts Basil
      1 c  Celery
    1/2 c  Almonds
    3/4 c  Short grain brown rice
    3/4 c  Wild rice
      2 c  Peas
 
  Heat oil and brown chicken in it for 10 minutes.  Add paprika,
  cilantro, onion and garlic.  Saute until onion is clear.  Stir in
  water, wine, tomatoes, bouillon cube, and seasonings; combine
  thoroughly.  Stir in celery, almonds and rice.  Cover and simmer 20
  minutes; add peas and simmer another 10-20 minutes or until rice is
  ready.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Zucchini #2
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Zucchini
      4    Tomatoes, diced
      1 c  Bacon, crumbled
      3    Cloves garlic, diced
      2    Onions, diced
  1 1/2 c  Brown rice
      2    Bell peppers, diced
      3 c  White wine
      1    Cube vegetable bouillon
    1/4 ts Mint leaves, chopped
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      3    Eggs
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  Trim ends off zucchini; cut in half lengthwise; scoop out centers,
  leaving 1/4" around skins.  Combine zucchini centers in fry pan with
  all other ingredients except eggs and parsley.  Saute 30 minutes.
  Place zucchini in baking dish; stuff with rice-vegetable mix; spoon
  any extra around zucchini; cover with foil. Bake for 20 minutes at
  350 degrees. Prick holes in foil for steam to escape. Beat together
  eggs and parsley; pour over stuffed zucchini; recover and continue
  cooking 10 more minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ahi Carpaccio
 Categories: Fish, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Fresh tuna, paper-thin
           Salt, Vinegar & Oil
           Freshly cracked pepper
      1    Bunch arugula
           Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/2    Wht or blk truffle; shaved
 
  Note: May use a greater amount of truffle if desired. Arrange tuna in
  overlapping slices on platter. Sprinkle with salt and drizzle with
  oil and vinegar to taste. Sprinkle with pepper. Surround tuna with
  wreath of arugula. Sprinkle grated Parmesan cheese over all. Top with
  truffle shavings. Created by: Michael's, Santa Monica (C) 1992 The
  Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Finnan Haddie
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Milk
      2 lb Finnan haddie*
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
      3 tb Butter; melted
           -salt and pepper
           Lemon slices
           Parsley
 
  *Finnan Haddie is smoked Haddock. Make a thin white sauce by
  combining the butter, flour, milk and salt and pepper in the top of a
  double boiler. (combine the butter and flour into a paste, cook
  slightly before adding milk). Place the fish in a greased pan and
  pour the white sauce over it. Cover and simmer very gently for half
  an hour, basting as necessary. Sprinkle with bread crumbs which have
  been mixed with the melted butter. Bake in a hot oven for 15 minutes.
  Remove it a hot platter and garnish with parsley and lemon. SERVES:6
  Source:_Out of Old Nova Scotia Kitchens_
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Fish
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      1 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      2 tb Catsup
      2 tb Dry mustard
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
  1 1/2 lb Firm, whitefish fillets
           - such as Red Snapper
           - or Halibut
 
  COMBINE ALL SAUCE INGREDIENTS in a pot, place over medium heat and
  boil until reduced to a thin syrup. Pour the syrup through a
  strainer, discard the cooked ingredients in the strainer and chill
  the syrup. Place fish steaks or fillets in a baking dish and spoon
  some syrup over. Marinate in the refrigerator for 1 hour. Cook the
  fish on a hot grill, basting with a teaspoon of barbecue syrup on
  each side.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK ---  TNet 3.50 
  Intelec  42 BBS III - Carson, Ca - (310) 549-5539
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: COLOSSUS Date: 01-01-93 (21:12) Number: 2687 From: KAREN
  MINTZIAS Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: Roberts 5 Conf: (125)
  COOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Fish Mousse
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Whitefish fillets
    1/2 lb Cooked lobster
      2 tb Finely diced onion
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Brandy
      1 tb Tomato paste
    1/2 c  Egg whites
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Combine whitefish, lobster, onion, salt, brandy
  and tomato paste in a food processor and blend until smooth. Add the
  egg whites and blend until incorporated. Transfer the mixture to a
  bowl, cover and chill for 30 minutes. Stir in the cream until
  incorporated. Divide the mousse between buttered ramekins. Place the
  ramekins in a water bath, cover and place in oven for 20 minutes. To
  serve, turn the contents of each ramekin out onto a warm plate, spoon
  some Hollandaise-based sauce over each mousse and serve immediately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cuban Cod and Black Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad, Fish
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    3/4 lb Firm white fish fillets
           - cod, rockfish, snapper,
           - orange roughy, lingcod,
           - pike.
           Vegetable cooking spray
      1    Clove garlic; minced
      1 tb + 4 ts lime juice; divided
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes -OR-
           - cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 cn Black beans (15 oz can)
           - drained and rinsed
      1    Large orange
      4 c  Torn romaine lettuce
 
     Place fish in even layer (tucking under thin ends) on broiler pan
  coated with vegetable cooking spray.  Combine garlic and 2 teaspoons
  lime juice; spread on fish.  Broil about 4 inches from heat about 5
  minutes or until fish just flakes when tested with a fork.  Transfer
  to a dish and let cool 10 minutes.  Combine oil, remaining 1
  tablespoon and 2 teaspoons lime juice, cumin, pepper flakes and salt
  in a small jar.  Shake well and pour 1 tablespoon over fish.
  Meanwhile, peel orange, cut into 1/2-inch slices and separate into
  segments.  Combine with black beams and remaining dressing. Drain
  fish, break into large chunks and remove any bones.  Add to orange
  mixture and toss gently.  Cover and refrigerate 2 hours or up to 24
  hours. Serve over romaine.
     Makes 3 servings.  (Recipe can be doubled.)
  
  Printed in the November 11, 1992, issue of the Simi Valley, CA,
  Enterprise.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Newburg
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 17 servings
 
      6 oz Mushrooms; sliced
      4 oz Onions; finely chopped
      3 oz Butter
      1 oz Flour
    1/4 ts White pepper
    1/4 c  Sherry
      2    Egg yolks; beaten
      1 qt RICH'NING;prepared according
           - to label
      2 c  ChefMate Golden Cheese Sauce
      1 lb Seafood; cooked, cut in
           - chunks (shrimp, crab,
           - halibut, lobster, etc.)
 
  1.  In large suacepot, saute mushrooms and onions in butter. 2. Stir
  in flour and white pepper. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly
  about 3-5 minutes. 3. Combine sherry, egg yolks and RICH'NING.
  Gradually add mixture to roux, stirring until sauce is smooth. Cook
  5-8 minutees, stirring constantly with wire whip. 4. Add Golden
  Cheese Sauce. Stir until smooth. 5.  Add seafood to Newburg Sauce.
  Heat to serving temperature. Serve over toast points, wild or saffron
  rice or vol au vent shells.
  
  Makes 17  1/2 cup servings.
  
  Source: Carnation Company
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whitefish Baked W/ Fiddlehead Ferns
 Categories: Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  White wine
      2 tb Dijon mustard
      4    (7-oz) whitefish fillets
           Salt and white pepper
           - to taste
    1/2 ts Thyme
    3/4 lb Fiddlehead ferns
           -=OR=- Asparagus
      1 md Onion; finely diced
      2 tb Unsalted butter
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Combine wine and mustard in a 3-inch deep
  baking dish just large enough to hold the whitefish fillets in 1
  layer. Place the whitefish in the wine and sprinkle with salt, pepper
  and thyme. Place the onions and fiddleheads on top, cover the dish
  and place in the oven for 20 minutes. Remove baking dish from the
  oven. Arrange a bed of onions and fiddleheads on a platter and place
  the fish on top. Swirl butter into the cooking liquid and pour over
  the fish. Serve immediately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Curry
 Categories: Seafood, Crab/shrimp, Main dish, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 tb Butter
      1 sm Onion
      2    Green peppers
      2 cl Garlic
      2 tb Ginger Powder
      2 tb Curry Powder
      1 qt Sour cream
           Cooked rice
           Peanuts (chopped)
           Coconut
 
  Saute the onion, garlic, and bell pepper in the Butter until soft and
  brown Add curry powder, and ginger and stir until mixed. Add shrimp
  and stir until warm and soft. Add sour cream and heat just until warm
  all the way through.  Do not boil
  
  Serve over cooked rice and complement with chopped peanuts or coconut
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paella No. 2
 Categories: Rice, Seafood, Main dish, Poultry, Paella
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
  Ingredients: 1 one and a half pound lobster, cooked 1 pound shrimp 1
  dozen or more small clams               1 quart mussels 1 one and a
  half pound chicken            1 tsp oregano 2 peppercorns 1 clove
  garlic, peeled 1 1/2 tsp salt                            6 tbs olive
  oil 1 tsp vinegar 2 ounces ham, cut in thin strips 1 chorizo (hot
  Spanish sausage), sliced 1 ounce salt pork, finely chopped 1 onion,
  peeled and chopped 1 green pepper, seeded and chopped 1/2 tsp ground
  coriander 1 tsp capers 3 tbs tomato sauce 2 1/4 cup rice, washed and
  drained 4 cup boiling water 1 tsp saffron 1 can peas, drained
                       1 can pimientos Directions: Remove meat from the
  lobster. Shell and devein shrimp. Scrub mussels and clams. Cut
  chicken into medium sized serving pieces. Combine oregano,
  peppercorns, garlic, salt, two tbs of the olive oil and the vinegar
  and mash with back of spoon or with a mortar. Rub chicken with the
  mixture. Heat remaining olive oil in a deep, heavy skillet and brown
  chicken lightly over moderate het. Add ham, chorizo, salt pork,
  onion, green pepper, coriander and capers. Cook ten minutes over low
  heat. Add tomato sauce and rice and cook 5 minutes. Add boiling
  water, saffron and shrimp. Mix well and cook rapidly, covered, until
  liquid is absorbed, about 20 minutes. With a large spoon, turn rice
  from top to bottom.  Add lobster meat and peas; cover and cook 5
  minutes longer. Steam mussels and clams in a little water until their
  shells open. Heat the pimientos and drain. Us the mussels, clams and
  pimientos as a garnish.
  
  ~End Recipe Export- ___ X SLMR 2.0 X
  
  ~-- Maximus 2.01wb * Origin: The Keeping Room (1:261/1055)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 03-11-93 (16:28) Number:
  2132 From: EARL SHELSBY                 Refer#: NONE To: NANCY VAINE
  Recvd: NO Subj: Need recipe                    Conf: (185) GOURMET
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tropical Fish Kebabs
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Monkfish
      2    Garlic cloves, crushed
      1    Fresh green chili, seeded,
           -chopped
      1    Piece ginger root, peeled,
           -chopped (1")
           Juice of 1 lime
           Salt to taste
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Corn oil
      1    Ripe mango
      2    Bananas
      1    Red bell pepper, seeded,
           -cut in cubes
           Lime wedges
 
  Cut away monkfish from central bone. Cut flesh into bite-size pieces.
  
  In a shallow glass dish, combine garlic, chili, ginger, lime juice,
  salt, pepper and oil. Add fish and stir gently. Cover and refrigerate
  2 hours. Meanwhile, slice mango lengthwise on each side, close to
  seed. Peel and cut mango flesh in small pieces. Peaheat grill. Cut
  bananas into chunky pieces.
  
  On 4 long or 8 short bamboo skewers, alternate fish with cubes of bell
  pepper, mango and banana. Arrange skewers in a broiler pan and spoon
  marinade over skewers. Broil 12-15 minutes, turning frequently and
  basting with marinade, or until cooked through. Serve with lime
  wedges.
  
  VARIATION: Substitute fresh pineapple for mango.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scandinavian Fish Salad
 Categories: Main dish, Fish, Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Malt vinegar
    2/3 c  Water
      3 tb Sugar
      1 tb Pickling Spice
      4    Fresh herrings, cleaned,
           -filleted
  1 1/4 c  Sour cream
      3 tb Mayonnaise
      2 ts Dijon-style mustard
      1    Onion, halved, thinly sliced
      1    Green delicious apple
      1    Red delicious apple
           Red leaf lettuce leaves (opt
      4    Green onion daisies (opt)
           Fresh dill sprigs (opt)
 
  In small saucepan, combine vinegar and water. Add sugar and Pickling
  Spice.
  
  Bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve sugar. Boil 2 minutes; cool.
  Strain and discard spices. Cut herring fillets in 1/2"-wide strips
  and place in a shallow dish. Pour cold marinade over fish. Cover and
  marinate several hours or overnight.
  
  Drain herring strips. In a bowl, combine sour cream, mayonnaise,
  mustard and onion. Cut apples in fourths, remove cores and slice
  thinly (do not peel). Add sliced apples and herrings to sour cream
  mixture and mix together gently until coated with dressing. Arrange
  lettuce leaves on 4 plates. Spoon herring mixture on plates and
  garnish with green onion daisies and dill sprigs, if desired. Serve
  chilled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hawaiian Grilled Fish Salad with Pineapple
 Categories: Salad, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Firm fish steaks or fillets
           - salmon, halibut, swordfish
           - tuna, mahimahi, amberjack
           - or opah
           - about 6 ounces each
      2 ts + 1 tb oil; divided
      4 ts Lemon juice; divided
      4 ts Minced fresh ginger; divided
      1    Medium yellow bell pepper
           - diced
      1    Small sweet onion
           - or red onion
           - finely chopped
      2 cn Crushed pineapple in juice
           - 8 ounce cans
    1/2 c  Golden raisins
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      3 c  Torn fresh spinach
      3 c  Torn fresh romaine
 
     Rinse fish in cool water and pat dry.  Combine 2 teaspoons oil, 2
  tablespoons lemon juice and 1 teaspoon ginger and coat both sides of
  fish. (Refrigerate for up to an hour.)  To prepare Pineapple Salsa,
  heat remaining oil in a medium skillet.  Add yellow pepper and onion
  and saute until soft. about 4 minutes.  Add crushed pineapple,
  raisins, cayenne and remaining lemon juice and ginger;  saute until
  pineapple is warm, about 4 minutes longer.  (Salsa can be made ahead
  up to 24 hours; but bring to room temperature before using.)  Grill
  fish 4 to 5 inches from hot coals, turning once, until fish is barely
  opaque in the center, and just begins to flake when tested with a
  fork about 2 minutes per side for 3/4-inch thick fish steaks.  Divide
  spinach and romaine among six plates and place a grilled fish steak
  on each.  Top with pineapple salsa as a dressing.
  
  Yield: 6 servings.
  
  Printed in the November 11, 1992, issue of the Simi Valley, CA,
  Enterprise.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese: Spiced Shrimp (Laht Ha)
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Seafood, Fish, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Fresh prawns
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
           Dash of white pepper
      1 tb Oil

MMMMM---------------------------------------------------------------
      2 c  Oil for deep-frying

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
      1 lg Egg
      2 tb Flour
  1 1/4 tb Cornstarch

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Thin soy sauce
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      1 tb Sesame oil
  1 1/4 tb Sugar
      5    Dried chili peppers, finely
           - chopped, or 1-1/2 tsp.
           - crushed red pepper
 
  Shell, devein and wash prawns.  Drain and pat dry with paper towels.
  
  Add salt, sugar and pepper, mixing well.
  
  While oil is heating to 350-degrees, prepare the battter by beating
  the egg, adding the flour and cornstarch.  Mix thoroughly.
  
  Dip prawns in batter, drop in hot oil and deep-fry for 4 minutes.
  Remove and drain off excess oil.
  
  Prepare sauce by combining the listed ingredients.
  
  Heat wok, add 1 tablespoon oil, and stir-fry garlic for 1 minute.  Add
  sauce and bring to a boil.
  
  Add deep-fried prawns, mix thoroughly, and serve.
  
  FOR DEEP FRIED PRAWMS ONLY: Follow steps 1 and 2 above.
  
  1/2 cup Sitjar's Crispy Mix or any type of deep fry chicken batter.
  Purchase at any Chinese grocery store.  Add 1/4 cup and 2 tablesoon
  cold water.  Mix well.
  
  Heat 2 cups oil to 350-degree.  Dip prawn in batter and fry for 4
  minutes, and serve.
  
  SOURCE: Chopstick, Cleaver and Wok.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Impossible Tuna Pie
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Tuna; 8 oz - drained
    1/3 c  Celery; thinly sliced
      2 c  Cheese; cheddar, shredded
    1/4 c  Green onions; sliced, opt.
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Bisquick baking mix
    1/2 ts Lemon rind; grated
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts -Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
           Approx. Cook Time: :40
 
     Preheat oven to 350F. Grease pie plate, 10x1 1/2". Layer tuna,
  celery, cheese and onions in plate. Beat remaining ingredients 15
  seconds in blender. Pour into pie plate. Bake till golden brown or
  knife inserted in centre comes out clean (about 40 minutes). Cool 5
  minutes. Serve with lemon wedges if desired. posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Tuna Pasta
 Categories: Fish, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ts Butter
      1 ts Oil; olive
      4 lg Garlic cloves, chopped
    1/8 c  Lemon juice
      3 ts Capers, drained
     18    Black olives,pitted & sliced
      2 cn Tuna; chunk,drained
           Pasta; penne , cooked anddr
      4 ts Butter (add at end)
 
     Melt butter with oil in skillet. Add garlic and cook 2 minutes. Add
  lemon juice, capers and olives and cook another 2 minutes. Turn heat
  to lowest setting. Add tuna & separate it (do NOT flake) with a fork.
  Heat through, stirring gently. Drain pasta. Add remainder of butter
  and sauce to hot pasta, tossing well. posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Salmon Ring
 Categories: Fish, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Salmon; 15 oz
      1    Egg; lightly beaten
      1 c  Breadcrumbs
    1/4 c  Sour cream or whipping cream
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      1    Onion; small minced
      1 ts -Salt
    1/4 ts -Pepper
      1    Lemon; juice & rind

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
      3 ts Dill; chopped fresh or dill
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :15 LOAF:
  Empty can(s) of salmon in bowl, undrained, flake and break apart with
  fork. Add remaining ingredients. Mix thoroughly, place in microwave
  ring pan. Cover with wax paper and cook on High 6 minutes. Let stand
  5 minutes. Unmold. SAUCE: Melt butter on High 30 seconds. Stir in
  flour. Cook at High 30 seconds to 1 minute. Stir in milk, slowly. Add
  dillweed and pepper. Cook on High, stirring every 1 to 2 minutes till
  thickened.
  
  from my microwave cooking class posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fiery Catfish Fingers
 Categories: Appetizer, Fish, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Yellow Or Coarse Ground
           - Mustard Or A Combination
           - Of Both
      1    Egg White Lightly Beaten
      2 ts Tabasco Pepper Sauce
  1 1/2 lb Catfish Fillets, Cut Into
           - Bite Sized Strips
    1/2 c  Yellow Cornmeal
    1/2 c  All-Purpose Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly Ground Black Pepper
      1 qt Vegetable Oil
 
  In the South Folks grow up loving catfish, which is plentiful in the
  bayous and rivers.  Now it's farm-grown, and northerners are
  discovering its mild and versatile flavor.  We coat bite-size fingers
  of catfish fillets with plenty of Tabasco sauce and deep-fry them for
  a knock-your-socks-off appetizer.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- In a large bowl, stir together the mustard, egg white and Tabasco
  sauce. Add the fish and toss to coat well.  Cover and marinate for 1
  hour.
  
  In a shallow dish, mix together the cornmeal, flour, salt and pepper.
  Pour the oil into a heavy 3 quart saucepan or deep-fryer, filling it
  no more than one-third full, and heat over medium heat to 350oF.
  Dredge the fish in the cornmeal mixture and shake off the excess.
  Carefully add the fish to the oil, a few pieces ata time.  Cook for 2
  minutes, or until golden brown and crispy.  Drain on paper towels.
  Serve the catfish hot with spicy mayonnaise or picante sauce.  From:
  The Tabasco Cookbook. Typed by Syd Bigger.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Smoked Salmon & Feta Cheese En Croute
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 oz Smoked salmon, diced
      6 oz Cream cheese, softened
      3 oz Feta cheese
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
      1 ts Capers
      2 tb Finely choppedparsley
      4    Scallions, topped, diced
      1 tb (or more) poppyseeds
 
  You'll also need 1 frozen pastry sheet, cut into a 3" X 8" rectangle
  and some melted butter.  Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. In a medium
  bowl, hand mix the salmon, cream cheese, Feta cheese, egg, capers,
  parsle, and scallions.  Roll out the pastry sheet to double its size.
  Liberally brush it with melted butter.  Spread the salmon mixture
  over the sheet. Roll up, jelly-roll style, folding the ends in to
  seal. Brush the top of the roll with melted butter and sprinkle with
  poppy seeds. Make 1/2 inch deep diagonal slashes across the roll to
  allow steam to escape. Bake the roll for 20 to 30 minutes or until
  golden. Serve warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Grilled Trout ****
 Categories: Fish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Fresh Lemon Juice
      2 tb Melted Butter Or Margarine
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      2 tb Chopped Fresh Parsley
      2 tb Sesame Seeds
      1 tb Tabasco Pepper Sauce
      1 ts Grated Fresh Ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
      4    Whole Brook Trout, Cleaned
           - About 1 Pound Each
 
  Charcoal-grilled fish takes on a new level of flavor when marinated
  in this wonderful sauce, intensified by a full tablespoon of Tabasco
  sauce.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- Prepare a charcoal fire for grilling.  In a shallow dish, mix the
  lemon juice, butter, oil, parsley, sesame seeds, Tabasco sauce,
  ginger, and salt. With a fork, pierce the skin of each fish in
  several places.  Roll the fish in the lemon juice mixture to coat
  thoroughly.  Leave the fish in the marinade, cover the dish and
  refrigerate for 30 minutes to 1 hour, turning the fish occasionally.
  
  Remove the fish, reserving the marinade, and place them in a hand-held
  hinged grill.  Brush the fish with the marinade.  Cook about 4 inches
  from the hot coals for 5 minutes.  Turn, brush with marinade, and
  cook for 5 minutes longer, or until the flesh appears opaque and
  flakes easily.
  
  From: The Tabasco Cookbook.  Typed by Syd Bigger.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sole with Tomatoes
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 md Tomato, thickly sliced
      1    Fillet sole about 5 oz/140 g
    1/2 ts Olive oil
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
      2 ts Chopped fresh basil or dill
           OR
    1/4 ts Dried basil, dill, parsley
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  Serve with a green vegetable along with potatoes, rice or bread.
  
  On microwave-safe plate, arrange tomato slices in single layer.
  Arrange fish to cover tomatoes; drizzle with oil and lemon juice.
  Sprinkle with basil and pepper to taste.
  
  Cover with vented plastic wrap; microwave at high (100%) power for 3
  minutes or until fish is almost opaque and flakes easily when tested
  with a fork.  Remove from oven and let stand for 1 minute.  If
  necessary, pour off excess liquid from plate.  Makes 1 serving.
  Double ingredients and microwave 4-5 min on one plate for 2 servings.
  
  CONVENTIONAL OVEN METHOD: In shallow baking dish arrange fish; cover
  with sliced tomato.  Drizzle with oil and lemon juice. Sprinkle with
  basil and pepper to taste.  Bake in 400F oven for 12 minutes or until
  fish is almost opaque and flakes easily when tested with a fork.
  
  Per serving: 141 calories, 4 g fat, 71 mg cholesterol, 132 mg sodium,
  22 g protein, 6 g carbohydrate.
  
  Source:  The Lighthearted Cookbook by Anne Lindsay, Canadian Heart
  Foundation c. 1988 Shared by Elizabeth Rodier June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aegean Sea Chowder (Psarosoupa Kakavia)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Greek, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb White fish
           -- cut into 2-inch pieces
    1/2 lb Clams (if desired)
    1/2 lb Crab  (if desired)
    1/2 lb Lobster  (if desired)
    1/2 lb Scallops  (if desired)
    1/2 lb Mussels  (if desired)
    1/2 lb Shrimp  (if desired)
    1/2 lb Baby octopus  (optional)
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3    Onions; chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; pressed
      2 lb Canned peeled tomatoes
           -- including liquid
      1 c  Chopped mushrooms
      4    Celery stalks; chopped
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 c  Wine, red preferably
      4 c  -Water
 
  Prepare fish and shellfish by cleaning and cutting into bite-size
  pieces. Heat oil in a large pot.  Fry onions and garlic on medium
  heat for 5 minutes.  Add remaining ingredients, except seafood and
  bring to a boil. Reduce heat and cover.  Cook one hour.
  
  Add fish and octopus, and cook 20 minutes.  Add shellfish and simmer 5
  minutes more.  Serve hot with crusty bread and crisp salad.
  
  Source: The Complete Greek Cookbook - by Theresa Karas Yianilos Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Salmon Steaks
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Piece Fresh Ginger Root;
           -Peeled, (About 2 X 1/2 X
           -1/2-Inches)
      1 lg Green Onion
    1/2 bn Arugula Or Watercress
           Olive Or Salad Oil
      2 sm Salmon Steaks; Each About
           -3/4-Inch Thick
      1 tb Dry Sherry
      1 tb Soy Sauce
    1/2 pt Cherry Tomatoes
      6 sl White Bread
 
  ABOUT 30 MINUTES BEFORE SERVING:
  
  Slice the ginger root and green onion into 2-inch long,
  matchstick-thin, strips.  Arrange the arugula on a platter.  In a
  10-inch skillet over medium-high heat in 1-inch of hot oil, cook the
  ginger root and green onion until lightly browned.  With a slotted
  spoon, remove the ginger root mixture to a small bowl and set aside.
  In the remaining oil in the skillet, cook the salmon steaks, turning
  once, until browned and the fish flakes easily when tested with a
  fork, about 10 minutes.  Place the salmon steaks on top of the
  arugula.  Discard any remaining oil in the skillet, then stir in the
  sherry, sow sauce, and 2 Tb of water, blending well and heating
  through.  Pour the sherry mixture over the salmon steaks and sprinkle
  the ginger root mixture on top of the steaks.  While the salmon
  steaks are cooking, in a 3-quart saucepan, heat 2 ts of salad oil and
  cook the cherry tomatoes until just heated through.  Cut 1 heart
  shape out of each slice of bread and toast the hearts.  (Save the
  trimmings for bread crumbs to be used another day.)  Serve the Salmon
  Steaks with the toasted hearts and cooked cherry tomatoes.
  
  EACH SERVING CONTAINS:
  
  CALORIES:  ABOUT 590    FAT:  26 GRAMS          CHOLESTEROL: 99 MG.
  SODIUM: 1040 MG.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mesquite-Smoked Salmon Fajitas
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Coarse (kosher) salt
    1/2 ts Coarse pepper
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
      4    Salmon fillets; skinned
           -4 to 5 ounces each

MMMMM---------------------------SALSA--------------------------------
      1    Lime
      1    Mango
      1 c  Diced cantaloupe
      2    Scallions; finely chopped
      1 tb Chopped cilantro
    1/8 ts Pepper
        pn Salt
      1 ts Rice-wine vinegar

MMMMM---------------------OTHER INGREDIENTS--------------------------
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Spanish onion; halved
           -sliced (about 3 cups)
      1 lg Poblano chile; seeded,
           -julienned
      8    Flour tortillas; warmed

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
    555 x  Calories
     30 x  G protein
     70 x  G carbohydrate
     20 x  G fat
     62 x  Mg cholesterol
    917 x  Mg sodium
 
  1.  In glass bowl, mix seasonings.  Add salmon; coat.  Cover;
  refrigerate one to three hours.
  
  2.  Meanwhile, make salsa:  Into bowl, grate lime zest.  Cut away
  white pith; over bowl, section lime.  Halve sections.  Pit, peel and
  chop mango; add to lime with remaining ingredients; toss.  Cover.
  
  3.  In skillet, heat oil over medium-high heat.  Add onion and chile;
  over medium heat, suate' 20 minutes, until soft.
  
  3.  Grease wire cake rack.  Turn on stove vent.  Line both bottom and
  domed lid of cast-iron skillet with heavy-duty foil; leave 2 inch
  overhangs. Cut 3 inch hole in center of foil in skillet bottom.  Heat
  skillet, covered, 5 minutes over high heat.  Place mesquite chunks on
  bare spot in skillet. Place rack on skillet.  Heat 3 minutes,
  covered, until skillet fills with smoke.
  
  5.  Place salmon or rack; cover with lid.  With pot holders, crimp
  overhanging foil to form a tight seal.  Over medium-high heat, smoke
  salmon 12 minutes or just until cooked.  Carefully unswrp.  Place on
  platter; break into chunks.  Serve in tortillas with onion mixture
  and salsa.
  
  From:  McCall's July 1993
  Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 07-27-93 (09:50) Number:
  58535 From: LAWRENCE KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd:
  NO Subj: recipe Conf: (149) COOKING
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Nicoise Sandwich
 Categories: Sandwich, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 cn Italian tuna packed in olive
           -oil (6 1/2 ounce size each)

MMMMM--------------------VINAIGRETTE DRESSING-------------------------
           Olive oil
      2 ts Fresh oregano leaves
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 tb Red-wine vinegar
      1    Clove garlic
      1 ts Dijon mustard

MMMMM---------------------OTHER INGREDIENTS--------------------------
      1    Red pepper; roasted, peeled,
           -cored, seeded, and juliennd
      1    Yellow pepper; treated same
           -as red
      1    Pickled jalapeno; seeded
           -minced
    1/4 c  Diced red onion
      2 tb Chopped pitted olives
           -Calamata
      2 tb Capers
     12 oz Loaf italian bread; halved
      1 bn Watercress; trimmed

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
    558 x  Calories
     34 x  G protein
     50 x  G carbohydrate
     25 x  G fat
     16 x  Mg cholesterol
   1044 x  Mg sodium
 
  1.  Make dressing:  Drain oil from tuna into glass measure; add oil
  to make 1/3 cup.  Reserve tuna for sandwich.  Place oil in blender
  with remaining ingredients; blend.
  
  2.  In bowl, mix vegetables, olives, and capers.  Remove some soft
  inside from bread; discard (or freeze for stuffing?).  Brush inside
  loaf with some dressing; add remainder to pepper mixture.  Mix in
  tuna gently, leaving chucks.
  
  3.  Grill bread, oiled side down, until toasted.  Pile tuna mixture
  onto toasted sides.  Top with watercress; close.
  
  From:  McCall's July 1993
  Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: Computer Specialties BBS Date: 07-27-93 (09:51) Number:
  58539 From: LAWRENCE KELLIE              Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd:
  NO Subj: recipe Conf: (149) COOKING
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Charlene Prickett's Crab Salad with Yogurt Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Fish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------YOGURT DRESSING---------------------------
      1 c  Low-fat yogurt
      1 tb Chives or spring onions
      1    Garlic clove,crushed
      2 ts Lemon juice
           Vegetable salt

MMMMM-------------------------CRAB SALAD------------------------------
      1    Butter lettuce head
      2 lb Crab meat
      1 lb Mandarin oranges,seedless
      1 lb Fresh peaches,peeled/sliced
      4    Shallots,minced
      2    Large cucumbers,sliced
    1/2 lb Snow peas
      1    Juice of lemon

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Lemon slices
           Fresh chives
 
  Charlene Prickett combines brain with brawn on IT FIGURES, her
  long-running exercise show for Lifetime Television. "I have a real
  academic streak," says Prickett. "I have a lot of interest in science
  and in keeping up with the research that's always changing. Every
  year I go to fitness conferences and sports-medicine clinics
  throughout the country, and I always like to share what I've learned
  by including an information element in my shows." So what does the
  latest research say about the most effective way to get a good
  workout? Says Prickett, "In terms of being optimally effective,
  cross-training - weight training, along with some stretching and
  aerobic activity - has come to be thought of as important. The
  advantage is that you don't stress the body in the same way every
  single day, and it prevents injury as well as boredom."
  
  Prickett also believes that women have to work harder than men at
  battling the bulge. "When you're young or if you're a man, the
  likelihood of your staying near ideal weight with exercise alone is
  good. However, if you're female or over 25, it generally takes both
  regular exercise AND good food choices. That doesn't mean you can
  never have an ice-cream sundae, but to stay at or near ideal weight,
  you need to make discriminating food choices."
  
  For dressing: mix all ingredients and chill.
  
  For salad: mix all ingredients except lettuce in a bowl, add
  dressing, and chill for 1 hour. Arrange lettuce leaves in a salad
  bowl, add salad.
  
  Garnish with lemon slices and chives.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brithyll a Chig Moch (Trout and Bacon)
 Categories: Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Rainbow trout
           Thyme, fresh
           Sage, fresh
           Butter; a little
           Rosemary, fresh
           Parsley, fresh
      1    Bacon rasher
 
  Fresh rainbow trout - cleaned; head and tail left on.  Stuffed with a
  mixture of fresh rosemary, thyme, parsley, and sage loosely chopped
  and blended with a little butter. Wrap the fish in a long rasher of
  bacon. Enclose in foil and bake in a hot oven for around 25-30
  minutes. Open top of foil and shape like a boat, paint with a little
  butter and serve with boiled potatoes and plain fresh vegetables.
  This dish used to be baked in an open fire with the fish encased in
  mud.
  
                             Anthony Crowter, Cae Nest Hall Hotel
                             Llanbedr Merionnydd, N. Wales
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Chrysanthemum Bowl
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Pork, Fish, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 qt Chicken broth
    3/4 tb Sesame oil
      2 ts Salt
      4 oz Bean threads
           - cellophane noodles
      1    Cabbage head, shredded
      1 lb Spinach, fresh
      2    Chicken boneless breasts
      8 oz Chicken livers
      8 oz Pork tenderloin
      8 oz Firm white fish
      8 oz Shrimp
      1 c  Small oysters
      3 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Sherry
      2 lg Chrysanthemums
 
  Slice all meats and vegetables in Chinese manner (thin strips).  Bring
  chicken stock, oil and salt to boil in large serving pot. (A
  Mongolian Hot Pot is traditional) and keep bubbling over heat.
  Arrange noodles and all raw ingredients attractivly on large platter.
  Add sherry and soy sauce to bubbling broth. Provide guests with
  chopsticks and serving bowls. invite guests to add the raw
  ingredients to the broth.  Let cook just until fish and shrimp are
  opaque.  Just before guests serve themselves from the pot, sprinkle
  leaves from the chrysanthemums on top of bubbling soup. Ladle some of
  the soup into each guests bowl.
  
  Source: Bon Appetit From the collection of: Joan Mershon
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baby Corn Relish
 Categories: Fish, Relish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oriental sesame oil
      1 tb Minced fresh ginger
      1 tb Minced shallot
    1/2 ts Hot red chilies,crushed,
           -dried
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 c  Rice vinegar
    1/3 c  Reduced-sodium soy sauce
      2 tb Oyster sauce
 
  Pour oil into a 10-12" frying pan. Place over medium-high heat until
  oil just starts to smoke, about 2 minutes. All at once, add ginger,
  shallot, chilies, and coriander. Stir for 30 seconds.
  
  At once, add rice vinegar, soy sauce, and oyster sauce. Boil,
  uncovered, over high heat until sauce is reduced to 1 cup, about 1
  minute. Let cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli "Castlerole"
 Categories: White castl, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10    White Castle hamburgers
      4    Pkg. chopped frozen broccoli
      1    Med. box Velveeta (R) cheese
      1    Stack Ritz (R) crackers
    1/2    Stick butter
 
  1>. Place 10 White Castle hamburgers side by side in a large casserole
  dish. Cook 4 packages of frozen broccoli, drain and layer over White
  Castles. Melt cheese and pour over broccoli and White Castles. Crush 1
  stack of crackers with 1/2 stick of butter; sprinkle over top of
  casserole. Bake at 350 deg F. for 30 minutes or until topping starts
  to brown.
  
  Carol Cox, Cincinnati, Ohio
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rolled Castle Steak
 Categories: White castl, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    White Castle hamburgers
  2 1/2 lb Round steak
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      3 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Tenderize steak. Remove excess fat. Chop hamburgers and add curry
  powder to dressing mixture. Spread mixture on steak and roll as a
  jelly roll. Tie with string. Put oil into pan and heat. Add steak
  roll to pan and roll to brown on all surfaces. Reduce heat. Add water
  and simmer. Cover and cook, rotating meat, for approximately 30
  minutes. Liquid in pan is excellent for gravy stock.
  
  Joyce Walukonis, Florissant, Missouri
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Castle Nacho Grande
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    White Castle hamburgers
      1 lg Can nacho cheese
      1    Head lettuce, chopped
      2    Chopped tomatoes
      1 md Chopped onion
      1 lg Jar salsa
      1 lg Bag nacho chips
      8 oz Sour cream
     25    Chopped black olives
      1 lg Bag shredded chedder cheese
 
  Spread 1/3 salsa on the bottom of a 9" x 13" pan. Spinkle with 1/2 cup
  shredded cheese and chopped onion. Cut each sandwich into 4 - 6
  pieces and arrange on top of salsa, cheese and onion. Add more salsa,
  shedded cheese, onion and black olives. Pour nacho cheese over all
  and bake at 350 deg F> for 15-20 minutes. Remove and cool 5 minutes.
  Top with lettuce, chopped tomatoes, onions, shredded cheese, black
  olives and sour cream dollops. Serve with nacho chips.
  
  Don Marsh, Indianapolis, Indiana
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Castle Casserole
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16    White Castle hamburgers
      4    White Castle onion chips
     12    Slices American cheese
    1/4 c  Milk
 
  Layer 8 White Castle hamburgers in the bottom of a 9" x 13" pan,
  right side up. Cover with cheese and onion chips. Pour milk over all.
  Place 8 more White Castles upside down, layer with cheese and onion
  chips. Bake at 300 deg F. until well done (about 25 minutes).
  
  Alaine Lee Cone, Indianapolis, Indiana
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Castle Loaf Supreme
 Categories: White castl, Pork, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    White Castle hamburgers
           (Pickles & ketchup included)
      1 lb Ground pork
      2    Cloves garlic
      8    Sprigs chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Milk
      1    Pinch oregano
    1/2    Can tomato sauce
           Salt to taste
 
  Mix all ingredients except tomato sauce in a large bowl. Grease loaf
  pan. Shape mixture and place in pan; smooth meat with oiled hands.
  Pour tomato sauce over meat loaf. Bake at 350 deg F. for one hour.
  
  Joseph J. Garofalo, Bronx, New York
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Castle Stuffed Peppers
 Categories: White castl, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    White Castle hamburgers
      3 lg Green peppers
      2    Eggs
    1/4 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Chili powder
      1    Dash Tobasco (R) sauce
      1    Jar of your favorite salsa
 
  Cut peppers in half lengthwise and core. Chop up hamburgers and mix in
  eggs, chili powder, cumin and Tobasco. Stuff peppers and place in
  baking dish. Top with salsa and cover. Bake at 350 deg F. for 45
  minutes.
  
  Ellen Garvey, Bridgewater, New Jersey
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Castle and Zucchini Casserole
 Categories: White castl, Main dish, Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    White Castle hamburgers,
           With onions
      3 sm Zucchini cut, 1/4" strips
      4 tb Flour
      8 oz Meatless spaghetti sauce
      8 oz Ricotta cheese
      1    Egg, beaten with ricotta
           Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Set aside 10 White Castle hamburger buns, spread with garlic butter.
  Place zucchini slices in bottom of greased 8" x 8" square baking
  dish. Sprinkle with flour. Top with White Castle hamburgers and
  onions. Add spaghetti sauce. Spread mixture of ricotta cheese and
  beaten egg over sauce. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Bake uncovered
  at 350 deg F. for 30 minutes. (If microwaving, use microwave-safe
  dish and cook on high for 10 minutes). Let stand for 10 minutes.
  Broil buns open-faced until toasted. Cut casserole into 5-6 servings.
  Spoon casserole onto top of buns.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Castle Vidalia Dip
 Categories: White castl, Appetizer
      Yield: 14 servings
 
     14    White Castle hamburgers,
           Chopped fine; buns set aside
  2 1/2 c  Chopped Vidalia onions
  1 3/4 c  Hellmann's (R) mayonaise
      2 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
    1/2 c  Crumbled bacon
           Crushed crackers (topping)
 
  Mix all above ingredients (except buns and crackers). Bake in
  casserole dish at 350 deg F. for 30-35 minutes. Let stand for 10
  minutes. Put open buns under broiler until toasted. Serve dip on buns
  or crackers.
  
  Karen Walkup, Norcross, Georgia.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breakfast Castle Casserole
 Categories: White castl, Breakfast
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    White Castle cheeseburgers
      3    Eggs, beaten
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped green peppers
      1 ts Dry mustard
    3/4 ts Garlic salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Grated taco cheese
           Paprika
 
  Cut White Castle cheeseburgers in half and place in 13" x 9" baking
  dish or pan. Mix all above ingredients in a bowl (except the cheese)
  until frothy. Pour over White Castles. Sprinkle with taco cheese and
  paprika. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight or until
  thoroughly chilled. Bake at 350 deg F. uncovered for 40-45 minutes or
  until custard is set. Serve hot or cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pate De Chateau Blanc
 Categories: White castl, Appetizer
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     12    White Castle hamburgers
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Milk
           Cream cheese
 
  Remove half the bun from each White Castle hamburger and discard.
  Place three of the remianing half-sandwiches in a food processor
  (pickle optional) and add one egg and 1/2 cup milk. Pulsate until the
  ingredients are chopped, but be carefull not to puree. Empty into a
  bowl and repeat the process three more times. Pack the mixture into
  an ungreased, standard-sized bread pan. Place pan into a larger pan
  and pour boiling water into the larger pan to a level half the depth
  of the bread pan. Bake in 350 deg F. oven for one hour. Cool loaf in
  refrigerator; overnight is best. Turn it out on a plate, decorate
  with cream cheese and cut pate into slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Castle Turkey Stuffing
 Categories: White castl
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10    White Castle hamburgers,
           Pickle removed
  1 1/2 c  Celery, diced
  1 1/4 ts Ground thyme
  1 1/2 ts Ground sage
    3/4 ts Coarse ground black pepper
    1/4 c  Chicken broth
 
  In a large mixing bowl, tear the White Castle hamburgers into pieces
  and add diced celery and seasonings. Toss and add chicken broth. Toss
  well. Stuff cavity of turkey just before roasting. Makes about 9 cups
  (enough for 10-12 lb bird).
  
  NOTE: Allow 1 White Castle hamburger for each pound of turkey, which
  will be the equivilent of 3/4 cup stuffing per pound.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swedish Castle Delight
 Categories: White castl, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    White Castle hamburgers
    1/2    Diced onion
      2    Crumbled bacon strips
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ginger
      1 tb Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Instant beef bouillion
      1 ts Corn starch
      3    Drops soy sauce
      8 oz Spinach noodles
      1 tb Butter or olive oil
           Fresh dill
           Corn meal
 
  WHITE CASTLE BUNS: Toast White Castle buns on cookie sheet, centers
  up, at 250 deg F. until lightly browned 12-15 minutes. Cool and
  process into fine crumbs. MEATBALLS: While buns toast, add to White
  Castle hamburgers; onion, bacon, 3/4 crumbs, egg, milk, spices, brown
  sugar, pepper and salt. Mix well and form into 1-inch balls; roll in
  corn meal. Brown in bacon fat. Set aside. NOODLES: Cook noodles
  according to directions. Drain; stir in butter or olive oil; cover
  and keep warm. SAUCE: In bacon pan, add remaining crumbs, water,
  bouillion and soy sauce. Mix well and cook 1 minute. Add cornstarch.
  Cook 2-3 minutes until smooth. Reduce heat, add meatballs, stir and
  simmer 1 minute. To serve: place noodles on a platter. Cover with
  meatballs and sauce, garnish with dill.
  
  Arlene Gustafson, St. Anthony, Minnesota
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Poppy Seed Bundt Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 pk Lemon cake mix (w/o pudding)
      1 pk Lemon or vanilla pudding *
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 c  Poppy seed
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 c  Water/warm
      4 ea Eggs
 
  * Use instant pudding mix. Put cake mix, pudding mix, cinnamon,
  nutmeg, poppy seed, oil and warm water in large mixing bowl. Add
  eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Put in greased
  and sugared bundt pan and bake at 350 degrees about 45 min. or until
  done. Let cake cool in pan for 10 min.  Remove cake from pan, invert
  and immediately drizzle with glaze; made by mixing together 1 cup
  powdered sugar and enough lemon juice to make a thin glaze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Mini-Bundt Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Butter
    1/2 ts Almond extract
    2/3 c  Sugar
      2 c  Cake flour; sifted
    1/2 c  Confectioners' sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 pn Salt
      3    Eggs; separated
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Almonds to garnish
 
  Cream butter and two sugars until light and fluffy. Add egg yolks
  separately, beating well after each addition. Mix in extracts. Mix
  together flour, baking powder and salt. Add flour mixture and milk
  alternately to creamed mixture. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites.
  After greasing and flouring 9- cup Mini-Bundt pan, embed an almond in
  each crease of the pan. Pour batter into pan and bake at 350 degrees,
  for 45 min. Source: Unusual Old World and American Recipes from
  Nordic Ware. Formatted for MM by Karen Adler FNGP13B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Madeira Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Nutmeg; ground
      2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Madeira or cream sherry
      6    Eggs
    3/4 c  Pecans; finely chopped
      3 c  Flour
 
  Cream together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs, one
  at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour, baking powder
  and nutmeg alternately with the wine to the creamed mixture. Mix well
  after each addition. Blend in chopped pecans. Pour batter into well
  greased and floured Jumbo Bundt pan. Bake in 350-degree oven for
  50-60 min. Cool cake in pan for 15 min. before turning out. Dust with
  confectioners' sugar before serving. Source: Unusual Old World and
  American Recipes from Nordic Ware. Formatted for MM by Karen Adler
  FNGP13B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Glazed Dream Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk White cake mix
      4    Eggs
      1 pk Whipped topping mix

MMMMM----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
      1    Unsweetened chocolate square
      1 ds Salt
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Milk; hot
    3/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
 
  Combine cake mix, whipped topping mix, eggs and water; beat at medium
  speed for 4 min. Pour batter into well greased and floured 12-cup,
  10-inch Bundt pan; bake at 350 degrees for about 40 min. Cool in pan
  for 15 min. Remove from pan. FOR GLAZE: Melt chocolate and butter
  over low heat. Remove from heat. Add sugar and salt; blend in milk
  until mixture is of glaze consistency. Drizzle over cooled cake.
  Source: Unusual Old World and American Recipes from Nordic Ware.
  Formatted for MM by Karen Adler FNGP13B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Toffee Crunch Coffee Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 ts Soda
      2 c  Flour
      1    Egg
      1 c  Brown sugar;packed
      1 ts Vanilla
      4    Toffee candy bars;crush fine
           -( 3/4 oz. ea.)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Buttermilk or sour milk
    1/4 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Cut butter into flour and sugars until crumbly. Set aside 1/2 c. To
  remainder, add buttermilk, soda, egg and vanilla; beat well. Pour 1/3
  batter into well greased and floured 9-cup Mini-Bundt pan. Combine
  reserved mixture, candy and nuts. Sprinkle over batter. Alternate
  remaining batter and candy nut mixture. Bake at 350 degrees for 35-45
  min. To crush candy bars: place in freezer. When thoroughly chilled,
  place between 2 sheets of foil and roll with rolling pin. Source:
  Unusual Old World and American Recipes from Nordic Ware. Formatted
  for MM by Karen Adler FNGP13B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sock-It-To-Me Coffee Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
    1/2 pt Sour cream (8oz)
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Chopped pecans
    1/2 c  Oil
      4    Eggs

MMMMM--------------------------STREUSEL-------------------------------
      2 tb Confectioner's sugar
      1 ts Chopped nuts
      1 ts Cinnamon

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Mix cake mix, sugar and oil well. Add eggs, beat well. Add sour cream
  and nuts. Grease bundt pan with butter. Mix and sprinkle streuel mix
  in bottom of pan, pour1/2 cake mix into pan.Top with topping mix.
  Pour rest of batter in. Bake at 350 F for 55-60 minutes. from
  *Prodigy's Food and Wine Bulletin Board, from Theresa Hope,npxs77a
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wowie Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           JoAnne Ferry-CMSJ69B
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Vanilla instant pudding
      1 c  Sour cream
      4 x  Eggs
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1 c  Broken walnuts
 
  Mix together the cake mix, pudding, sour cream, eggs and oil. Using an
  electric mixer beat the batter for 8 to 10 minutes. Grease and flour
  a 10 inch tube pan. Pour 1/4 of the batter into pan and sprinkle 1/2
  the chocolate chip and walnuts over it. Pour in remaining batter and
  top with remaining chips and nuts. Bake at 350 degrees for 50 to 60
  minutes. Cool for about 10 minutes and then turn out onto a serving
  plate and cool completely.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brown Sugar Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------SALLIE KRATZ - NXMB21A------------------------
      2 c  Brown sugar; packed
  1 3/4 c  Flour; sifted
      2 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Ground cardamom
      1 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Buttermilk (*)
    1/2 c  Butter; melted
      1 c  Pecans; chopped

MMMMM---------------------BUTTERSCOTCH GLAZE--------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Milk
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla or rum extract
 
  Preheat oven to 325F.  Grease and flour 9-cup tube (Bundt) pan.
  
  In large bowl combine dry ingredients.  Add buttermilk, eggs and
  melted butter.  Beat well.  Add nuts if desired. Pour into prepared
  pan. Bake for 50 minutes or until tests done. Cool in pan 10 to 15
  minutes. Turn out onto wire rack or plate.  Cool.  Top with
  Butterscotch Glaze.
  
  (*) I used 4 Tbsp. buttermilk powder, added with the dry ingredients.
  Then I added 3/4 C. water where the buttermilk is to be added.
  
  GLAZE:  In sauce pan, combine butter, brown sugar and milk. Bring to
  full boil, add sugar and extract. Beat until smooth. Add more milk to
  make a good consistency for drizzling if necessary.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Angel Food Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------JILL BLACKSTONE-RVNX48B-----------------------
     12    Egg whites
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
 
  Beat egg whites until soft peaks form. Beat in cream of tartar and
  vanilla. beat in 3/4 cup sugar. Sift together remianed sugar, flour
  and cocoa. fold into egg white mixutre. Pour into ungreased tube pan.
  Bake at 350 F for 45 minutes. you can sprinkle with powdered sugar,
  drizzle with chcocolate sauce, top with fresh fruit, have it plain!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pistachio Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Orange juice
    1/3 c  Oil
      1 pk Ins. pistachio pudding(3 1/2
    1/2 c  Chocolate syrup

MMMMM----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
    3/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa
  1 1/2 tb Maybe 2--T milk
 
  In a large bowl, combine cake mix, eggs, o.j., oil & p. mix; blend at
  low speed for 1 min, then beat at high speed for 3 min. Pour 2/3 of
  the batter into a greased & floured 12" bundt pan. Add chocolate
  syrup to remaining 1/3 of the batter & mix at med speed til well
  blended. Pour over top of batter & marbleize by cutting through
  batter with a knife. Bake at 350 deg for about 1 hour or til cake
  tests done. Cool in pan 10-15 minutes; turn out on a wire rack or
  serving plate to complete cooling. Top with chocolate glaze.
  Glaze---Combine all ingredients til well blended. Spoon over top of
  cake, allowing some to run down sides of cake. Mona BTMF00B
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Better Than Sex Cake #3
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------DKND76A-------------------------------
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Instant vanilla pudding
      4 ea Eggs
      8 oz Sour cream
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/2 c  ;water
      1 ea Bar German sweet choco;grate
      6 oz Pkg. chocolate chips
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
 
   Mix first six ingredients together and beat with electric mixer until
  smooth. Add next three ingredients. Pour batter into greased and
  floured Bundt pan. Bake at 325 for 55 min. Use toothpick to check for
  doneness. Let cool; remove from pan. Keep tightly covered for
  freshness. Posted by Roy Hightower.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crunch Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -BARBARA MEEK   (XMNM74B)
      2 c  Cake flour
      6    Eggs
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  CRISCO
 
   Cream Crisco & sugar together.  Add eggs one at a time. Add flour &
  vanilla.  Bake at 325 degrees approximately 1 hour 20 minutes or
  longer in tube pan. Cool in pan at least 10 minutes.
   NOTE: You must use CRISCO. Nothing else makes the top crunchy.
   The middle of the cake dents in a little, so don't think the cake has
  fallen or flopped. Formatted by Elaine Radis; 8/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marble Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------KARL BASS - HSGH26A-------------------------
  1 1/3 c  Unsalted Butter
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      1 ts Rum Extract
      5 md Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Bakingpowder
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 tb Cocoa Powder
      2 tb Sugar
      3 tb Milk
 
   Cream softened butter and sugar.  Add vanilla and rum extracts and a
  pinch of salt.  Add eggs one at a time. Use electric mixer. Mixture
  should look pale yellow. Mix baking powder into flour and add
  alternately with milk to the mixture.  Put 2/3 of the dough into a
  Bundt cake pan. Mix the 2 Tbl cocoa and 2 Tbl sugar with the 3 Tbl
  milk and add to the rest 1/3 of dough. Mix thoroughly. Add to the
  Bundt pan. Take a fork and swirl the dark dough into the light dough
  so that you get a marble effect. Bake at 350F for 50-65 min.  Test
  with toothpick. You can also put it into a loaf pan. Freezes well.
  KB.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Best Coffee Cake!!!!
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Breakfast, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------BELINDA WEST (SSJG51B------------------------
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Apricot nectar
      1 c  Wesson Oil
    1/4 ts Lemon extract

MMMMM---------------------------ICING--------------------------------
      3    Lemons; juiced
      1 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Mix ingredients and pour into greased tube pan.  Bake approximately 30
  minutes at 350 degrees.  ICING: mix lemon juice and powdered sugar.
  While still warm, Punch cake with skewer (or a chopstick) to make
  holes, pour icing on top. When cool, sprinkle with powdered sugar.
  NOTE: I have had this baked as a sheet cake and cut into squares. It
  is a great coffeecake, and good enough to be used as a dessert, as
  well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornmeal Spice Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
           Nonstick spray coating
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Ground cardamom <or>
           -ground nutmeg
    2/3 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Eggs; slightly beaten
      8 oz Plain yogurt
 
   Spray a 10"-fluted tube pan with nonstick coating; set aside. Stir
  together flours, cornmeal, baking powder, baking soda, and cardamom or
  nutmeg; set aside.
   In a large mixing bowl combine honey, oil, vanilla, and beaten eggs.
  Mix well. Add flour mixture & yogurt alternately with egg mixture,
  stirring well after each addition. Pour batter into prepared pan.
   Bake in 325F oven for 50 to 55 minutes or till done. Cool 15 min in
  pan on a wire rack. Remove from pan; place on rack over shallow pan.
   With a fork, prick top of cake generously. Gradually drizzle warm
  Honey-Spice Syrup over cake till all syrup is absorbed. Let cool on
  wire rack.
   Honey-Spice Syrup: In a medium saucepan combine 3/4 cup water, 1/2
  cup honoey, and 1/4 tsp ground cardamom or nutmeg. Bring to boiling;
  cook & stir syrup for 1 minute. Remove from heat. Let syrup stand
  till just a little warm.
   Nutrition information per serving: 362 cal., 6 g pro., 13 g fat, 84
  mg chol., 155 mg sodium, 154 mg potassium, 2 g dietary fiber. U.S.
  RDA: 12% thiamine, 11% riboflavin, 10% calcium.
   From Better Homes and Gardens March 1990
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oreo Cookie Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------MARIE FRANGIPANE KHMG99B-----------------------
     25 ea Cream filled chocolate sand-
      1 x  Wich cookies
      3 c  Flour
  1 1/4 c  Milk
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter flavored Crisco
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      4 ea Lg. eggs

MMMMM----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
      6 oz Pkg semi sweet chocolat bits
      3 tb Butter flavored Crisco
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Corn syrup
 
  Preheat oven to 350. Grease and flour 9" tube pan. Cut each sandwich
  cookie into quarters. In large bowl, with mixer at low speed, beat
  flour and remaining ingredients (except cookies and glaze) until
  blended. Increase speed to high; beat 2 minutes, scraping bowl a few
  times. Spoon about 3/4 cup batter into pan. Gently stir cut up
  cookies into remaining batter and spoon into same pan. For fun, I put
  in four or five uncut cookies, so people have fun guessing which
  slice will have a "whole" cookie. Bake 50 minutes or till cake
  springs back whe lightly touched. Toothpick test will not work. Cool
  cake in pan on wire rack ten minutes; remove from pan; cool
  completely on rack. When cake is cool, prepare chocolate glaze.
  CHOCOLATE GLAZE: In 1 qt. saucepan over low heat, heat chocolate
  bits, Crisco, milk and corn syrup stirring constantly until melted
  and smooth. This freezes well too and can easily be made in mini loaf
  pans as well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Brandy Pound Cake #1
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Lisa Crawley tspn00b
      1 c  Butter; softened
      3 c  Sugar
      6    Eggs
      8 oz Sour cream
    1/2 c  Apricot brandy
      1 ts Orange extract
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Rum flavoring
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      3 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Cream butter; gradually add sugar, beating well at med. speed of an
  electric mixer.  Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition.
  Combine sour cream and next 6 ingred. in a sm. bowl; stir with a wire
  whisk.  Combine flour, baking soda, and salt; stir well. Add to
  creamed mixture alternately with sour cream mixture, beginning and
  ending with flour mixture. Pour batter into a greased and floured 10"
  tube pan. Bake at 325 for 1 hr. and 45 min. or until a wooden pick
  inserted comes out clean. Let cake cool in pan 10 min.; remove from
  pan, and let cool completely on a wire rack.  Yield: One-10" cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Ice Cream Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Chocolate cake mix
      1 pt Chocolate ice cream, soften
      3 lg Eggs
      1 c  Water
 
  Combine ingredients and beat for 4 min. Pour batter into a well
  greased and floured 12-cup, 10-inch Bundt pan and bake at 350 degrees
  for 45 min. Cooled cake can be frosted with coconut fudge frosting or
  glazed with chocolate icing. Source: Unusual Old World and American
  Recipes from Nordic Ware. Formatted Karen Adler FNGP13B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Brandy Pound Cake #2
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 14 servings
 
           -JUDI M. PHELPS (BNVX05A)
      1 c  Butter or margarine;softened
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      6    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Orange extract
      1 ts Rum extract
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      3 c  Cake flour; sifted
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Apricot brandy
 
  Cream butter or margarine. Gradually add sugar and beat until light.
  Add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly after each. Add
  flavorings, then sifted dry ingredients alternatively with sour cream
  and brandy. Blend well.  Pour into geased 3-quart bundt pan and bake
  in preheated slow oven (325 degrees) about 1 hour and 15 minutes.
  Cool in pan on rack. Source: Women's Day Encylopedia of Cookery,
  Volume 3
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wine Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Sm vanilla inst. pudding
      4    Eggs
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 c  Wine, your choice*
    1/4 c  Hot water
      1 ts Nutmeg
 
  Combine all ingredients and beat well on med speed about 2 minutes.
  Pour into greased bundt pan and bake at 350 for 40-45 minutes. *Apple
  juice can be substituted for the wine. TSPN00B
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gather Round Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Butterscotch morsels (6 oz.)
      2 tb Instant coffee
    1/4 c  Water
      1 c  Butter
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Buttermilk
      4 ea Eggs
 
  Melt together in double boiler butterscotch morsels, coffee, and
  water. Cream together butter and sugar and add to butterscotch
  mixture. Combine flour, soda, salt and add to creamed mixture
  alternately with buttermilk. Add eggs one at a time. Beat at medium
  speed. Bake in greased 12-cup, 10- inch Bundt pan at 350 degrees for
  55-60 minutes. Cool 10 minutes before removing. Source: Unusual Old
  World and American Recipes from Nordic Ware. Formatted by Karen Adler
  FNGP13B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mississippi Mud Cake #1
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------BETTE LELAND (CVGH43B------------------------
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 3/4 c  Coffee; strong
    1/4 c  Bourbon
      5 oz Chocolate; unsweetened
      1 c  Butter; (2 sticks)
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Sift together the flour, soda, and salt.  In saucepan heat coffee and
  bourbon for 5 minutes.  Add chocolate and butter and heat until
  melted. Remove from heat; stir in sugar. Let mixture cool 3 minutes.
  Transfer to mixing bowl.  Add the flour mixture a little at a time.
  Add eggs and vanilla and beat until smooth. Pour batter into greased
  9" tube pan. Bake 1 hour and 30 minutes at 275 degrees. Let cool
  completely in pan. Serve cake with whipped cream, sweetened and
  flavored with white cream de cocoa to taste.
   Feb. 1992.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Pudding Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------PHYLLIS SMITH WCDT64B------------------------
      1 x  Bananas; 1 or 2 small, ripe
      1 ea Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Banana cream instant pudding
      1 x  - mix (4 serving size)
      4 ea Eggs
      1 c  ;water
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Nuts; finely chopped, opt.
 
  Slice bananas into mixer bowl. Beat until well mashed. Add remaining
  ingredients. Blend; then beat at med speed for 2 minutes. Pour into
  well greased and floured 10" tube or Bundt pan. Bake at 350 for 60-70
  minutes. Sprinkle with confectioners sugar when cool. Cake may be
  baked in a 9x13" pan for 50-55 min.
   Source: My Famous Little Black Box
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Cream Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------BARBARA NISHIMURA RSPX68B----------------------
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
           -without pudding
      4 oz Instant chocolate pudding
    3/4 c  Oil
    1/8 c  Water
    3/8 c  Baileys Irish Cream *
    1/4 c  Vodka
      4    Eggs
 
  * I use Emmets, which is about half the price of Bailey's.
  
   Combine cake mix, pudding mix, oil, water, vodka, Baileys and eggs
  in a bowl.  Beat until smooth.  Pour into greased and floured 10 in.
  bundt pan. Bake at 350 degrees 40 to 50 or until done. Cool
  completely and invert onto a serving plate.  Mix a little  powdered
  sugar and a little Baileys and drizzle over the top. Enjoy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grand Marnier Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 14 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------JULIE JAKSTYS MXXT23B------------------------
      1 c  Softened butter
    1/4 c  Orange juice
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Grand Marnier
      3    Eggs; separated
      2 tb Slivered blanched almonds
      2 c  Presifted flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Sour cream
           Rind of 1 orange; grated
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
   1. Preheat oven to 350 F. Grease 9-inch tube pan 2. Cream butter and
  1 cup of the sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in egg yolks, one at
  a time.
   3. Combine flour, baking powder, and baking soda; add alternately
  with sour cream to egg mixture, mixing well after each addition. Stir
  in orange rind and chopped nuts.
   4. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry; fold into batter.
   5. Turn batter into pan; bake in preheated oven for 45 to 50 min.
   6. Combine remaining sugar, orange juice and Grand Marnier. Spoon
  over hot cake in pan; decorate with almonds. Cool before removing
  from pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Judy's Chocolate Pound Cake
 Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2    Sticks butter
      3 c  Sugar
      6    Large eggs
      3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 pk German sweet chocolate
    1/4 c  Water
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Almond extract; opt.
 
  Stir chocolate in 1/4 cup water over low heat until melted. Cool and
  set aside. Cream butter and sugar in large bowl of electri mixer. Add
  eggs, one at a time, creaming well after each egg. Add melted
  chocolate. In separate bowl, blend flour, baking powder and salt with
  a fork. Add flour mixture alternately with milk to creamed mixture in
  electric mixer. Blend well. Stir in flavorings. Pour into greased and
  floured Bundt or tube pan. Bake in 325 degree oven for one hour and
  fifteen minutes. Cool pan on cake rack for 20 minutes. Then loosen
  around with silver knife. Cool another 30 minutes before removing
  from cake pan. Another popular item when I was catering. My daughter,
  Lisa, and I developed this recipe. This cake really doesn't need a
  frosting, but you might want to dust on a little powdered sugar. Judy
  Garnett pjxg05a
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Cake
 Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------CAROL MILTON STFM 57B------------------------
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      6    Eggs
      2 c  Flour
      7 oz Coconut; flakes

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Coconut extract
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Cream together the sugar and butter.  Add the 6 eggs, one at a time,
  flour, and coconut.  Bake in a heavily greased and floured Bundt pan
  for 1 hour in a 350-degree oven. Loosen cake in pan. Topping: Mix all
  the ingredients together and pour over the cake in pan. Let the cake
  stand until all syrup is absorbed. Remove from pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Decadent Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Boiling water
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      8 tb Sweet butter
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs, separated
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Dairy sour cream
      2 c  Flour,sifted *
      1 ts Baking powder

MMMMM---------------------CHOCOLATE FROSTING--------------------------
      2 tb Sweet butter
    3/4 c  Semisweet chocolate chips
      6 tb Heavy cream
  1 1/4 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  * minus 2 TBLS ** Preheat oven to 350~F. Grease and flour a 10-inch
  tube pan. Knock out excess. Pour boiling water over chocolate and
  butter; let stand until melted. Stir in vanilla and sugar, then whisk
  in egg yolks, one at a time, blending well after each addition. Mix
  baking soda and sour cream and whisk into chocolate mixture. Sift
  flour and baking pwoder together and add to batter, mixing
  thoroughly. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry. Stir a quarter
  of the egg whites thoroughly into the batter. Scoop remaining egg
  whites on top of the batter and gently fold together. Pour batter
  into the prepared pan. Set on the middle rack of the oven and bake
  for 40 to 50 mins., or until the edges have pulled away from the
  sides of the pan and a cake tester inserted into the center comes out
  clean. Cool in pan for 10 mins; unmold and cool completely before
  frosting. 12 portions. CHOCOLATE FROSTING: Place all ingredients in a
  heavy saucepan over low heat and whisk until smooth. Cool slightly;
  add more sugar if necessary to achieve a spreading consistency.
  Spread on cake while frosting is still warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Poppy Seed Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           Robbie Shelton XXXJ77A

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      3 c  All-Purpose Flour
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Poppy Seed
      1 c  Land O'Lakes Butter; soften
      1 c  Buttermilk
      4    Eggs
    1/2 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 ts Lemon Peel; grated
    1/2 ts Vanilla

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Powdered Sugar
      2 tb Lemon Juice
 
  Heat oven to 325F. In large mixer bowl combine all cake ingredients.
  Beat at low speed, scraping bowl often, until all ingredients are
  moistened. Beat at high speed, scraping bowl often, until smooth (1
  to 2 minutes). Pour into greased and floured 12 cup Bundt pan or
  10-inch tube pan. Bake for 55 to 65 minutes or until wooden pick
  inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pan.
  Cool completely. In small bowl stir together powdered sugar and lemon
  juice until smooth. Drizzle over cake. NUTRITION INFORMATION: (1
  serving): Calories 340; Protein 5g; Carbohydrates 51g; Fat 14g;
  Cholesterol 85mg; Sodium 260mg. This recipe comes from LAND O' LAKES
  "OUR BEST DESSERTS" vol.1 #2.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Milky Wonder Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -Sherilyn Schamber
      6 x  Milky Way candy bars
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      2 c  Sugar
      4 x  Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/4 c  Buttermilk
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Butter a 9 inch fluted tube pan. In a
  medium saucepan, combine candy and 1/2 cup of the butter or
  margarine. Melt over low heat, stirring until smooth. In a large
  mixer bowl, cream remaining 1/2 cup butter or margarine and sugar.
  Add eggs one at a time. Beat well after each addition. Add vanilla
  and melted candy. Beat until light and fluffy. Combine flour and
  baking soda. Add alternately with buttermilk to batter. Fold in nuts.
  Pour into prepared pan. Bake 1 hour and 20 minutes or until wooden
  pick inserted near center comes out dry. The top will be quite dark.
  Cool in pan 10 minutes. Remove from pan. Cool completely on wire
  rack. Frost, if desired. Makes 10 to 12 servings. Source: Sweet Treat
  Cookery
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppy Form Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Betty Leland cgvh43b
      1 cn Solo Poppy Filling
           -avail/most grocery stores
      1 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs; separated
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sour cream
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
 
   Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy.Add Solo Filling. Add
  egg yolks one at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in
  vanilla and sour cream. Sift dry ingredients and add gradually to
  Poppy Filling mixture. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into
  greased and floured 9-10" tube pan which has the bottom lined with
  waxed paper. Bake 350~ for50-60 min. Allow cake to cool for about 5
  min. Remove from pan and peel off paper. Decorate by sifting
  confectioners' sugar over top of cake. Source: From the label of Solo
  Poppy Filling Bette...NM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grandma's Cheesecake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ricotta cheese
      1 lb Cream cheese
    1/2 c  Butter;melted
      1 c  Sugar
      4 ea Eggs
      1 x  Juice of 1 lemon
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 tb Flour
      3 tb Cornstarch
      1 pt Sour cream
      1 x  Zwieback crumbs;fine

MMMMM----------------------STRAWBERRY GLACE---------------------------
      1 pk Strawberry gelatin;( 3 oz.)
    3/4 c  Cold water
      2 c  Strawberries;fresh/sliced
           -sweetened
      1 c  Boiling water
 
  Mix cheeses well with beater. Add butter and eggs. Add remaining
  ingredients; fold in sour cream. Thoroughly grease 12-cup, 10-inch
  Bundt pan and dust with fine zwieback crumbs. Pour batter into pan
  and bake at 350' for one hour. Turn off oven and allow cheese-cake to
  remain in oven for one additional hour. Glaze with Strawberry Glace'.
  FOR GLAZE: Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add cold water. Cool
  until syrupy. Add strawberries and spoon over cheesecake. Source:
  Unusual Old World and American Recipes from Nordic Ware. Formatted
  for MM by Karen Adler FNGP13B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Yogurt Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -Karen Thackeray
           -Cake
  2 1/4 c  All-purp flour
  1 1/2 c  Sugar; up to 2 cups
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Butter; softened
      8 oz Lemon yogurt
      3    Eggs
           -Glaze; optional
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
   Preheat oven to 350F. In large mixing bowl, combine all cake
  ingredients using low speed. Increase to medium speed and beat 3 min,
  scraping bowl. Pour into greased and floured 10-inch tube or bundt
  pan. Bake 50-60 min. Cool 15 min before removing from pan. For glaze,
  beat confectioners sugar and lemon juice until smooth. Drizzle glaze
  over cooled cake.
   Source: Apron Strings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Five-Flavor Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -William Langford wphm66a
      1 c  Butter; or margarine
    1/2 c  Vegetable shortening
      3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 ts Coconut extract
      1 ts Imitation butter flavor
      1 ts Imitation rum flavor
      1 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Vanilla
      5 lg Eggs
      1 ts Baking powder
      3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Milk
 
  Preheat oven to 350-degrees. Lightly grease a large bundt cake pan.
  Cream together butter, shortening and sugar. Add eggs one at a time,
  beating well after each addition. Sift together flour and baking
  powder. To the batter add milk and flour alternately. Add flavorings
  and beat well. Bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes. Serve with glaze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Five-Flavor Pound Cake Glaze
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Dessert, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -William Langford wphm66a
      1 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Coconut extract
      1 ts Imitation butter flavor
      1 ts Imitation rum flavor
      1 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Vanilla
 
   Combine sugar, water and flavorings in a saucepan. Bring to a boil.
  Pour half of the mixture over the cake while still in the pan. Keep
  other half of glaze warm. When first half of glaze has been absorbed,
  dump cake over and out of pan and pour remaining glaze very slowly
  over cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggnog Cake Xwcg89a
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Plus Yellow Cake Mix
    1/4 c  Oil
      3 x  Eggs
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Rum
    1/2 ts Nutmeg

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Cutter
      2 tb Rum
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      2 tb Water
 
  Heat to 350F. Grease and flour 12 cup fluted tube pan. Blend cake
  ingredients until moistened. Beat 2 min. at highest speed. Pour into
  pan. Bake for 30-35 minutes. In small saucepan, heat sugar, nutmeg,
  butter and water until mix boil and sugar is melted. Remove from heat
  and add rum. Pour 1/2 of glaze around edges of hot cake. Cool upright
  in pan 5 min. then turn onto serving plater. Pour remaining glaze
  over top of cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Rum Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -Pam Coombes
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      4 lg Eggs
           -Glaze
      1    Stick butter
    3/4 c  Oil
    2/3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Apricot nectar
    1/3 c  Meyer's rum
 
   Combine cake mix, eggs, oil and apricot nectar and beat with mixer 10
  mins. Pour into lightly greased and floured tube pan and bake for 50
  mins at 325F. Combine butter, sugar and rum in saucepan and bring to
  a boil. Prick cake with long pronged fork; slowly pour glaze over top
  and sides. May be frozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Millie's Amaretto Cake - Xwcg89a
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -Sandy van Bibber xwcg89a
      1 pk Yellow butter cake mix
           Without pudding added
      1 pk Instant vanilla pudding
      4 x  Eggs
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Almond extract
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Amaretto liqueur
    1/2 c  Chopped almonds, walnuts

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Amaretto liqueur
      1 c  Sugar
 
   For the cake, in a large mixer bowl, mix together cake mix pudding
  mix, eggs, water, extract, oil and amaretto on low speed. Beat on
  high speed for 2 minutes. Generously grease the bottom and sides of a
  bundt or tube pan and springle bottom with nuts. Pour in cake batter
  and bake at 325F for 50-60 minutes or until a tester inserted in
  center comes out clean.
   For the glaze, in a saucepan, combine all ingredients and heat on
  medium heat to melt butter and sugar. Stir frequently. Bring to a
  boil and boil for 2-3 minutes.
   Let baked bake cool in pan for 10 minutes on a rack. Remove from pan
  and place on rack that has been placed over a deep dish. Gradually
  spoon hot glaze over warm cake, a few tablespoons at a time, so cake
  will absorb all of the glaze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Amaretto Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------LISA CRAWLEY  TSPN00B------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Toasted Almonds;chopped,
      1 pk Yellow cake mix without
    1/2 c  Veg. oil
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Amaretto
      1 ts Almond extract
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Amaretto
    1/2 ts Almond extract
           -divided
           -pudding
      1 sm Pkg. instant vanilla pudding
      4    Eggs
 
  Sprinkle 1 c. almonds into bottom of a well-greased and floured 10"
  tube pan; set aside.  Combine cake mix, pudding mix, eggs, oil,
  water, amaretto, and almond extract in a mixing bowl; beat on low
  speed of an electric mixer til dry ingred. are moistened. Increase
  speed to md, and beat 4 min. Stir in remaining 1/2 c. almonds. Pour
  batter into prepared tube pan. Bake at 325 for 1 hr. or til a wooden
  pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool cake in pan 10-15 min.;
  remove from pan, and cool completely. Combine sugar, 1/4 c. water,
  and butter in a sm. saucepan; bring to a boil. Reduce heat to med.,
  and gently boil 4-5 min., stirring occasionally, until sugar
  dissolves. Remove from heat, and cool 15 min. Stir in 1/4 c. amaretto
  and 1/2 ts almond extract. Punch holes in top of cake with a wooden
  pick; slowly spoon glaze on top of cake, allowing glaze to absorb in
  cake. Yield: one 10-inch cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kahlua Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM------------------MARIE BARANDICA GJJF24B-----------------------
           Chocolate Fudge cake w/puddi
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Kahlua; or Amaretto
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 pt Sour cream
     12 oz Chocolate chips (2 cups)
 
  Mix together and pour into Bundt pan that has been lightly greased.
  Bake at 350 for 50 - 60 minutes until sides of cake begin to pull
  away from pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------PAM COOMBES-----------------------------
      1 pk 3oz lemon Jello
      1 c  Boiling water
    3/4 c  Oil
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      4    Eggs

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    3/4 c  Sugar
           Juice of 2 lemons
           Grated lemon rind (opt)
 
  Dissolve Jello in boiling water and cool. Add oil. Mix this with cake
  mix, beat throughly, adding eggs one at a time while beating. Pour
  into greased tube pan.Bake at 350F for 50 to 60 mins. Remove from pan
  and cover with glaze made by dissolving sugar in lemon juice. Grated
  lemon rind may be added to glaze. Source: Sen. John
  Stennis,Mississippi
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Praline Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Alcohol, Cheese/eggs, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Baking powder
      4 oz Sour cream
      4 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 c  Praline liqueur
      1 c  Pecans; chopped

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Praline liqueur
    1/8 c  Water
 
  Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and beat 3 minutes. Mix dry
  ingredients together. Mix together sour cream, cream cheese and
  liqueur. Alternately add dry ingredients with cheese mixture, beating
  well. Stir in nuts. Grease and flour bundt pan. Pour batter in. Bake
  at 350~ for 60-70 minutes. Cool 15 minutes then glaze.
   GLAZE: Combine all in a small saucepan; bring to a boil. Stir for 5
  minutes. Pour over cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Overnight Cinnamon Coffeecake
 Categories: Breakfast, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 x  -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
      1 pk Frozen dinner rolls
      1 pk (3-1/2 oz) instant
      1 x  -butterscotch pudding
      1 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
      2 tb Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Butter; (1 stick), melted
    1/2 c  Pecans
 
  Layer in a greased bundt cake pan in the follow order: frozen rolls,
  powdered pudding, brown sugar, cinnamon, melted butter, and pecan.
  Cover the pan with foil topped with clean towel and allow to sit
  overnight. Bake in a 350 degree oven for 30 minutes. Serves 8 to 10.
  Source: Country Inn and Bed and Breakfast Cookbook (Served at The
  Hoosier Hospitality B&B in Bloomington, IN) Reformatted for
  MealMaster by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Comfort Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Lucy Koosman
           Frances Nossen swtk50b
     18 oz Cake mix, yellow
  3 1/2 oz Instant vanilla pudding
      4    Eggs
    1/2 c  ;cold water
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Southern Comfort
      1 c  Nuts; chopped fine
           ---- GLAZE:
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/8 c  ;water
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Southern Comfort
 
   Combine cake ingredients and beat on medium speed for 2 minutes.
  Pour into greased and floured 10" tube pan or 12 cup bundt pan. Bake
  for 1 hour @ 325. Cool slightly and invert on plate. Prick top and
  brush half of the glaze evenly over the top and sides. Cool
  completely. Reheat remaining glaze and brush cooled cake again.
  Before serving, sift powdered sugar over cake. * GLAZE: Melt butter,
  stir in water and sugar. Boil 1 minute, stirring constantly. Remove
  from heat and add Comfort.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Magic Swirl Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
    3/4 c  Margarine; softened
      2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
      3    Eggs
  2 3/4 c  Flour
  1 1/4 ts Baking soda; divided
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Buttermilk; or sour milk*
    3/4 c  Chocolate ice cream topping
    1/2 c  Chocolate chips

MMMMM---------------------CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE--------------------------
    1/2 c  Chocolate chips
      1 tb Shortening
 
  * To sour milk; Use 1 tablespoon white vinegar plus milk to equal 1
  cup.
    Heat oven to 350. Generously grease and flour 12 cup fluted tube
  pan. In bowl, beat margarine, sugar and vanilla until well blended.
  Add eggs; beat well. Stir together flour, 1 teaspoon of baking soda
  and salt; add alternately to margarine mixture with buttermilk. Pour
  4 cups batter into prepared pan. In remaining batter, stir in topping
  and remaining 1/4 teaspoon of baking soda. Spoon over vanilla batter.
  Sprinkle chocolate chips over surface. Bake 50 minutes or until
  wooden pick inserted in center comes out almost clean. Cool 10
  minutes, remove from pan to wire rack. For the drizzle; melt 1/2 cup
  chocolate chips with the shortening. Use this to glaze the cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Ring Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 c  Bisquick
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  All purpose flour
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter; soft
      1 ts Vanilla
      6    Eggs
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 c  Flaked coconut
           Powdered sugar
 
   Preheat oven to 350~. Grease and flour 12 cup Bundt pan. Beat all
  ingredients except coconut and powdered sugar in a large bowl on low
  speed, scraping sides frequently, for 30 seconds. Beat on medium
  speed, scraping sides occasionally, for 4 minutes; stir in coconut.
  Pour into prepared pan. Bake until tested done, about 55-60 minutes.
  Cool 5 minutes; invert on wire rack or heatproof serving plate.
  Remove pan; cool cake completely. Sprinkle with powdered sugar.
  
   HIGH ALTITUDE: Heat oven to 375~. Decrease Bisquick to 2 1/2 cups and
  sugar to 1 1/4 cups. Increase flour to 1 cup. Bake 45-50 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bisquick Apricot-Glazed Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Alcohol, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      3 c  Bisquick
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter; soft
      6    Eggs
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Orange-flavored liqueur

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Apricot preserves
    1/4 c  Sugar
 
   Heat oven to 350~. Grease tube pan, 10x4". Beat bisquick, 1 1/2 cups
  sugar, 1/2 cups flour, margarine, eggs, cream cheese, vanilla and
  salt in large bowl on low speed, scraping bowl frequently, 30
  seconds. Beat on medium speed scraping bowl occasionally 4 minutes.
  Pour batter into pan. Bake until wooden pick inserted in center comes
  out clean, 55-60 minutes. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pan. Heat 1/2
  cup sugar and the water to boiling; reduce heat. Simmer uncovered 2
  minutes; cool to lukewarm. Stir in liqueur. Slowly drizzle over cake.
  Press preserves thru sieve. Heat preserves and 1/4 cup sugar to
  boiling, sitrring constantly; reduce heat. Simmer uncovered until
  slightly thickened, 1 to 2 minutes. Cool slightly; spread over top,
  allowing some to drizzle down sides.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Amaretto Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Alcohol, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
  2 1/2 c  All purpose flour; sifted
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Amaretto liqueur
    1/2 c  Milk; room temperature
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Almond extract
      1 c  Unsalted butter; room temp
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
      4    Egg; room temperature
           Almonds; slivered
           Powdered sugar
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Grease 1 bundt or tube pan. Sift flour, baking
  powder and salt into bowl. Blend amaretto, milk, vanilla and almond
  extract in another bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter until
  light. Gradually add sugar and beat until light and fluffy. Beat in
  eggs 1 at a time. Fold in flour mixture and liquid alternately in 3
  additions, starting and ending with flour mixture; do not overblend.
  Pour into prepared pan. Sprinkle top with almonds. Bake until cake is
  golden brown and pulls away from sides of pan, 55-60 minutes. Cool
  cake completely in pan on rack. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead and
  stored at room temperature.) Dust cake with powdered sugar and serve
  with fresh fruit.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee Cream Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      5    Eggs; room temperature
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Instant coffee powder
      3 tb Water; boiling
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  All purpose flour; sifted
      1 ts Baking powder
      2 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Coffee; very strong cold
      2 tb Coffee liqueur
           Walnut; chopped, toasted
           Chocolate coffee beans
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Separate eggs. Combine egg yolks and 1 cup
  sugar in large bowl and beat until thick and lemon colored, about 5
  minutes. Dissolve coffee powder in boiling water. Blend in vanilla
  and dissolved coffee powder. Combine flour and baking powder and
  blend into batter. Beat egg whites until stiff. Fold into batter.
  Turn into ungreased 10-inch tube pan. Bake 30 minutes. Invert onto
  rack and let stand until completely cool. For frosting: Whip cream
  with 2 tablespoons sugar until soft peaks form. Add coffee and
  liqueur and beat until stiff. Slice cake crosswise into thirds. Use
  about 1/3 of cream frosting to fill layers and remainder to frost
  entire cake (save some frosting and pipe rosettes over top for
  garnish, if desired). Chill until whipped cream is slightly firm.
  Press nuts onto sides of cake and arrange coffee beans atop rosettes,
  if desired. Chill 4 hours before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Delight Babyfood Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 sm Vanilla instant pudding
      2    Strained Apricots with
           - Tapioca baby food (jars)
           - 4.4 oz size
    2/3 c  Milk
      8 oz Crushed pineapple, drained
    1/2 pt Whipping cream
    1/3 c  Sugar
 
  Grease and flour a Bundt pan. Bake cake according to package
  directions. Cool. Slice tube cake into three layers. Combine pudding,
  apricots, milk and pineapple. Spread between the layers and on top of
  cake. Beat whipping cream until stiff, gradually adding sugar. Ice
  sides and center hole of cake with whipped cream. 12-16 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oreo Cookie Tube Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     25    Cream filled sandwich cookie
      3 c  Flour
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Shortening
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      4    Large eggs

MMMMM----------------------CHOCOLATE GLAZE---------------------------
      6 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      3 tb Shortening
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Corn syrup
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. Grease and flour 9" fluted tube pan. Cut each
  cookie into quarters. In large bowl, with mixer at low speed,beat
  flour and remaining ingredeints except cookies and chocolate glaze
  until blended. Increase speed to high, beat 2 minutes, scraping bowl.
  Sppon about 3/4 cup batter into pan. Gently stir cut-up cookies into
  remaining batter and spoon into same pan. Bake 50 minutes or until
  cake springs back when lightly touched with finger ( toothpick test
  won't work). Cool cake in pan on wire rack 10 minutes;remove from
  pan; cool on rack. When cake is cooled, prepare chocolate galze. In 1
  quart saucepan over low heat, heat chocolate chips, shortening, milk,
  cornsyrup, stirring until melted and smooth. Place rack with cake
  oven large plate to catch drips, then pour warm glaze over top and
  sides of cake. This cake freezes well, and is wonderful cold from the
  refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Five Flavor Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Crisco
      3 c  Sugar
      5    Eggs
      3 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Coconut extract
      1 ts Butter extract
      1 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Rum extract
      1 ts Vanilla

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Butter extract
      1 ts Coconut extract
      1 ts Rum extract
 
  Cream together butter or margarine, and Crisco, and sugar. Add eggs,
  one at a time, beating well after each. Sift together flour and
  baking powder. Add flour and mikl alternately to batter. Add
  flavorings and beat well. Bake at 350^F in a bundt pan for 1 hour and
  15 minutes. For GLAZE: Combine sugar, water and flavorings in
  saucepan. Bring to a boil. Pour half over the cake while it is still
  in the pan. Keep other half warm. When first half of glaze has been
  absorbed, dump cake out of pan and pour remaining mixture over cake
  to keep moist.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gramma Petersen's Swedish Sponge Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Lori Norman rfhh52e
      4    Eggs; separated
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb Cold water
      1 c  Cake flour; or
           -3/4 c all-purp flour
           -plus 1/4 c cornstarch
      1 ts Lemon extract
      1 c  Sugar; sifted
 
   Beat egg yolks with cold water until thick and pale yellow. Add lemon
  extract to egg yolk mixture. Gradually add sifted sugar and salt to
  egg yolks, and beat thoroughly. Sift cake flour 4 times, and fold
  into yolk mixture. Beat 4 egg whites until they form peaks, BUT NOT
  DRY. Carefully fold into yolk mixture.
   Pour into a tube pan or a large 9x13-inch flat pan..... greasing
  ONLY the bottom. Bake in a 325 degree oven for 45 minutes. Invert
  tube pan until cake is cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wwm's Lightened Cocoa Applesauce Cake
 Categories: Dessert, Cake/cookie, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Diane English CRHN32B
    1/2 c  Reduced-cal tub margarine
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
  1 1/2 c  Applesauce
  2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      3 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
      2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Salt
           Pinch nutmeg
           Pinch allspice
  1 1/2 oz Chopped pecans

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL DATA PER SERVING---------------------
    192 x  *Calories
      3 x  *gm Protein
     31 x  *gm Carbo
      7 x  *gm Fat
    257 x  *mg Sodium
        x  *mg Chol

MMMMM-------------------EXCHANGES PER SERVING------------------------
  1 1/2 x  *Fat
      1    *Bread
     50 x  *Optional Calories
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Spray a 12-cup Bundt pan with nonstick cooking
  spray.  In large bowl, with mixer on high speed, beat margarine and
  sugar until creamy. Stir in applesauce. In a medium bowl, combine
  flour, cocoa, baking soda, cinnamon, cloves, salt, nutmeg, and
  allspice. Add to margarine mixture; mix well. Gently stir in nuts.
  Spoon into prepared pan. Bake 50-60 minutes, until toothpick inserted
  in center comes out clean. Cool on rack.
   From Weight Watchers Magazine, December 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Nut Cake
 Categories: Fruit, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Lisa Hlavaty fdgn81a
           -MM: nstm54b
      2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Oil
      1 tb Vanilla
      3    Eggs
      3 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Soda
      1 lg Can pet milk
      1 cn Almond filling
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
    1/2 c  Maraschino cherries & juice
           -chopped fine
     10 x  Sugar; optional
 
  Grease tube or bundt pan. Flour. Preheat oven to 350. Combine sugar,
  oil and vanilla. Add eggs one at a time. In separate bowl, combine
  flour, soda, and salt. Add to sugar mixture alternately with pet
  milk. Stir in remaining ingredients one at a time. Pour batter into
  pan. Bake at 350 for 1 1/2 hours. Cool about 10 to 15 minutes, then
  remove from pan. No glaze is required, but can be dusted with 10x
  sugar before served.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Lisa Hlavaty fdgn81a
      2    Sticks margarine or butter
      3 c  Sugar
      3 c  Flour
      6    Eggs; separated
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/4 ts Soda
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      2 ts Almond extract
 
  Cream butter and sugar; add egg yolks one at a time. Combine soda and
  sour cream; add alternately with flour to the mixtre. Add extracts.
  Beat egg whites until stiff and fold into cake batter.Bake in a
  greased and floured tube pan or angel food cake pan at 325 for 1 1/2
  hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elvis Presley Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Butter, softned
      7    Eggs, room temperature
      3 c  Cake flour, sifted twice
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Butter and flour a 10-inch tube pan.  Thoroughly cream together sugar
  and butter. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition.
   Mix in half the flour, then the whipping cream , then the other half
  of the flour.  Add vanilla.  Pour batter into prepared pan. Set in
  COLD oven and turn heat to 350 degrees. Bake 60 to 70 minutes, until
  a sharp knife inserted in cake comes out clean.  Cool in pan 5
  minutes. Remove from pan and cool thoroughly.
  
  SOURCE: BUFFALO EVENING NEWS - Reportedly Elvis' favorite and original
  recipe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      8 oz Cream cheese; room temp
      1 c  Butter or margarine; soften
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Lemon rind
      1 ts Vanilla
           Powdered sugar
           Grated lemon rind
 
  Mix flour, baking powder and salt; set aside. Cream cheese with butter
  until blended. Beat in sugar until smooth. Add eggs. Beat until light
  and fluffy, scraping bowl often. Add lemon juice, lemon rind and
  vanilla. Slowly stir in flour mix until blended. Mix well. Batter
  will be rather heavy. Turn into 8-10 cup capacity bundt pan. Bake at
  325~ for 1 hour or until tested done. Let cake stand in pan 10
  minutes, then invert and place on rack to cool. Place on serving
  platter. Dust with powdered sugar. Sprinkle some grated lemon rind on
  top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vermont Maple Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Brown sugar; packed
      3 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      7    Eggs; separated
    3/4 c  Water
      2 ts Maple flavoring
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
      1 c  Real maple syrup
    1/2 c  Walnuts; toasted, chopped
           Whipped cream (opt)
 
  In large bowl of electric mixer, combine flour, sugars, baking powder
  and salt. Mix until blended. In another bowl, combine oil, egg yolks,
  water and maple flavoring. Turn mixer on medium speed. Add liquid
  ingredients to dry ingredients. Beat 1 minute. In large metal bowl
  (not plastic), beat egg whites until foamy. Add cream of tartar. Whip
  at high speed until stiff peaks form. Pour batter over egg whites.
  Fold together gently until blended. Fold in 1 cup of chopped nuts.
  Pour into ungreased 10" angel food pan. Bake at 325~ for 55 minutes.
  Increase oven temperature to 350~. Bake 10 minutes longer until top
  springs back when touched. Cool upside down. Remove from pan. Bring
  maple syrup to boil in a medium saucepan. Lower heat. Simmer 15
  minutes or until almost reduced to half. Drizzle hot syrup over
  cooled cake. Sprinkle with toasted walnuts. Decorate with whipped
  cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Nut Upside-Down Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; soft
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs; separated
      3 oz Unsweetened chocolate; melt
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Milk
 
  Melt 2 tb butter in small saucepan; stir in brown sugar. Heat until
  bubbly. Stir in corn syrup and cream; heat, stirring constantly, just
  to boiling. Add nuts. Pour into a well greased 10" bundt pan. Set
  aside while preparing cake. Preheat oven to 350~. Sift flour, baking
  powder and salt. Mix butter and sugar until well combined. Add egg
  yolks, melted chocolate and vanilla; mix well. Add flour mix
  alternately with milk. Beat egg whites until stiff; fold into cake.
  Spoon over nut mixture in pan. Bake for 35-45 minutes or until tested
  done. Cool 15 minutes then remove fom pan.
  
  Mom Anderson.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pistachio Inside Outside Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Pistachio pudding
      3    Eggs; slightly beaten
      1 c  Oil
      1 c  Club soda
      1 c  Nuts; chopped

MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Milk; cold
      1 pk Dream Whip
      1 pk Pistachio pudding
           Additional chopped nuts
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Grease and flour a bundt pan. Blend all cake
  ingredients, except nuts, and beat for 2 minutes at medium speed. Add
  nuts; mix well. Pour batter into prepared bundt pan. Bake for 50
  minutes. Cool 15 minutes; remove from pan, cool on rack. Split cake
  into 3 layers. Spread 1 cup of frosting between each layer. Spoon
  remaining frosting mix into cake center. Chill. Garnish with chopped
  nuts.
   Frosting: Add cold milk to Dream whip and dry pistachio pudding. Whip
  until thickened, about 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Lime Sponge Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      6 lg Eggs; separated
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Grated lime rind
    1/4 c  Lime juice
    1/4 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Flour
           Powdered sugar (opt)
           Lime slices and leaves (opt)
 
  In large bowl of electric mixer, beat egg whites with cream of tartar
  and salt until whites hold soft peaks. Gradually add 1/2 cup of the
  sugar, beating until whites are stiff but not dry. Transfer to
  another large bowl. Put yolks in unwashed mixer bowl. Beat until
  thick. Add remaining sugar, 1 tbls at a time, beating yolks very
  thick and ivory colored. Add lime rind, lime juice and water, beating
  until just blended. Beat in flour at a very low speed or by hand. Add
  mixture to egg whites mix, gently but thoroughly folding in with a
  rubber spatula. Turn into ungreased 10" tube pan. Spread evenly. Cut
  through batter several times with spatula to break up any air bubbles
  in batter. Bake at 325~ for 1 hour or until tested done. Invert on
  wire rack to cool. Loosen cake from sides of pan with spatula. Set on
  serving plate. Sift powdered sugar over top, if desired. Garnish with
  lime slices and leaves before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Butter, softened
      1 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
     12 oz Almond filling
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Milk

MMMMM------------------------ALMOND GLAZE-----------------------------
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
      2 tb Light cream
    1/4 ts Almond extract
 
  Preheat oven to 350F. Grease and lightly flour a 10 inch tube or
  bundt pan. Cream butter and sugar together until light and fluffy.
  Add eggs, one at a time, mixing thoroughly after each addition. Beat
  in almond filling. Sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Add
  to creamed mixture alternately with the milk, beginning and ending
  with dry ingredients. Blend thoroughly. Turn batter into prepared
  pan. Bake 50 minutes, or until a cake tester inserted in center of
  cake comes out clean. Cool about 10 minutes. Remove from pan and cool
  thoroughly. Glaze: Combine all ingredients and stir until well
  blended and smooth. Drizzle over top of cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond\poppyseed Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Butter, softened
      1 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      6 oz Poppyseed filling
     12 oz Almond filling
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Milk

MMMMM------------------------ALMOND GLAZE-----------------------------
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
      2 tb Light cream
    1/4 ts Almond extract
 
   Preheat oven to 350F. Grease and lightly flour a 10 inch tube or
  bundt pan. Cream butter and sugar together until light and fluffy.
  Add eggs, one at a time, mixing thoroughly after each addition. Beat
  in almond filling, and poppyseed filling. Sift together flour, baking
  powder and salt. Add to creamed mixture alternately with the milk,
  beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Blend thoroughly. Turn
  batter into prepared pan. Bake 50 minutes, or until a cake tester
  inserted in center of cake comes out clean. Cool about 10 minutes.
  Remove from pan and cool thoroughly. Glaze: Combine all ingredients
  and stir until well blended and smooth. Drizzle over top of cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Grove Bundt Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Jo Anne Merrill
      1 c  Butter; softened
      2 c  Sugar
      3 lg Eggs
      3 c  Flour, All-Purpose; sifted
    1/2 ts Baking Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2 tb Lemon Peel; grated
      2 tb Lemon Juice; fresh
           Lemon Icing:
    1/4 c  Butter; softened
      2 c  Sugar, powdered
  1 1/2 tb Lemon Peel; grated
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice; fresh
 
   Preheat oven to 325 degrees. In a very large bowl, cream butter (or
  margarine) until very light; slowly add sugar until mixture is very
  light and fluffy. Beat in eggs one at a time.
   In another bowl, sift flour, baking soda and salt together. Add flour
  mixture alternately with buttermilk to butter mixture. Begin and end
  with flour. Mix in lemon peel and juice.
   Pour batter into greased and floured 10-inch tube or 12-inch bundt
  pan. Bake for 65-75 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center
  comes out clean. Place pan on rack for 10 minutes to cool. Turn cake
  out of pan onto rack. Spread with as much lemon icing as the cake can
  absorb (about a third of the icing) Allow cake to cool completely
  then frost with remaining icing.
   ICING: Blend butter and sugar together in a medium bowl. Mix in peel
  and juice, 1 tablespoon at a time, until the frosting is of spreading
  consistency. If the entire amount of juice is used, the icing will be
  thin and possibly difficult to spread evenly, however a very tangy
  frosting greatly enhances the flavor of the cake.
    This cake was a second place winner at the Del Mar fair.
    Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tunnel of Fudge Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Butter
      6    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Flour
      1 pk Fudge Buttercream Frosting
           -Mix
      2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
   Cream butter at high mixer speed.  Add eggs one at a time, beating
  well. Gradually add sugar, beating at high speed. Stir in flour,
  frosting mix and walnuts by hand. Pour into a greased bundt pan. Bake
  60-65 minutes at 350 degrees.  Cool 2 hours.  Remove from pan.
   Cake will have dry, shiny brownie-type crust when you take it out of
  the oven.  It will be soft in the center when you cut it.
   From Mary Beth Goering, McPherson, KS Formatted for MM by Rosanne
  Troxel (D.TROXEL on GEnie, TJFM10C on Prodigy)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tucson Lemon Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           SANDY VAN BIBBER   (XWCG89A)

MMMMM---------------------TUCSON LEMON CAKE--------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 x  Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Poppy seeds
      2 tb Grated lemon peel
      2 tb Lemon juice

MMMMM------------------------LEMON GLAZE-----------------------------
      2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Margarine/butter
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Heat oven to 325F. To prepare cake, grease and flour 12 cup Bundt
  cake pan or 10x 4 in tube pan. Beat sugar and margarine in large bowl
  on medium speed until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time.
  Mix together flour, baking soda and salt. Beat into sugar mixture
  alternately with buttermilk until well blended. Stir in poppy seeds,
  lemon peel and lemon juice.  Spread in pan. Bake until wooden pick
  inserted in center comes out clean, 50-55 minutes. Immediately poke
  holes in top of cake with long-tined fork. To prepare Lemon Glaze,
  mix together all ingredients until well blended and pour abour 2/3 of
  it over top of cake. Cool 20 minutes. Inver on heatproof serving
  plate and remove pan. Spread with remaining glaze. Betty Crocker
  Regional/International Recipes 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Cream Cheese Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      3 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Butter or margarine;softened
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Lemon extract
    1/2 ts Orange extract
    1/8 ts Salt
      6    Eggs
  2 3/4 c  Flour *

MMMMM------------------------LEMON GLAZE-----------------------------
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      1 tb Butter or margarine;softened
      2 ts Lemon peel; grated
      2 tb Lemon juice (2-3 T)
 
  * (or 3 cups Softasilk cake flour) Heat oven to 325-degrees. Grease
  and flour tube pan, 10x4 inches, or 12-cup bundt cake pan. Beat sugar,
  margarine and cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy.
   Beat in lemon juice, vanilla, lemon extract, orange extract and
  salt. Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition. Add
  flour; beat until smooth.
   Spread in pan. Bake about 1-1/2 hours or until golden brown and
  toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove
  from pan. Cool completely.  Spread Lemon Glaze over cake, allowing
  some to drizzle down side. GLAZE: Mix all ingredients until smooth.
  (From Betty Crocker Contest Winners, February 1992) (GXDB48A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Holiday Fudge
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 117 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  WHIPPING CREAM
      1 c  LIGHT CORN SYRUP
    1/4 c  BUTTER
      3 c  SUGAR
      1 ts VANILLA
      1 c  BRAZIL NUTS
      1 c  PECANS
      1 c  WALNUTS
      1 c  CANDIED CHERRIES
      1 c  CANDIED PINEAPPLE
 
  Butter a 9 x 13-inch baking pan; set aside. In a heavy 4-quart
  saucepan, combine cream, corn syrup, butter and sugar. Place over
  medium heat and stir occasionally with a wooden spoon until mixture
  comes to a boil. If sugar crystals are present, wash down sides of
  the pan with a wet pastry brush. Clip on candy thermometer. Cook to
  238 F (115 C) or soft- ball stage. Remove from heat and let stand
  undisturbed until the thermometer reads 200 F (95 C). Remove
  thermometer. With a wooden spoon, beat mixture until it thickens and
  lightens in color. Stir in vanilla, nuts and fruits and mix well.
  Turn into prepared pan, pressing mixture into corners. Refrigerate 24
  hours. Cut into 1-inch squares and serve or dip into tempered
  chocolate if desired. Shared by ELLIE COLLIN (CMKD93F).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Virginia Fudge
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 75 servings
 
     12 oz EVAPORATED MILK
    1/2 c  BUTTER
      2 tb LIGHT CORN SYRUP
      2 c  BROWN SUGAR; firmly packed
      1 ts VANILLA
      2 c  PECANS
 
  Grease a 9 x 13-inch baking pan; set aside. In a heavy 4-quart
  saucepan, combine milk, butter, corn syrup, granulated sugar and
  brown sugar. Place over medium heat and stir occasionally with a
  wooden spoon until mixture comes to a boil. Clip on candy
  thermometer. Cook to 234 F (115 C) or soft- ball stage. Pour, without
  scraping, into baking pan. Cool to lukewarm. Add vanilla. Stir with a
  wooden spoon until mixture thickens. Add nuts and continue stirring
  until candy loses its gloss. Scrape out onto plastic wrap. Pat into a
  loaf shape (about 9" x 5"). Slice and serve, or wrap in plastic and
  store in the refrigerator for several weeks. VARIATION: Use 1
  teaspoon maple extract instead of vanilla. Shared by ELLIE COLLIN,
  Prodigy ID# CMKD93F.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tutti-Frutti Fudge
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 81 servings
 
    1/4 c  UNSWEETENED COCOA
     14 oz SWEETENED CONDENSED MILK
      1 c  WATER
      2 tb ORANGE PEEL; finely grated
      1 tb LIGHT CORN SYRUP
      4 c  GRANULATED SUGAR
      1 c  BROWN SUGAR; firmly packed
      1 c  DATES; chopped
      1 c  NUTS; chopped
 
  In a heavy 4-quart saucepan, combine cocoa, condensed milk, water,
  orange peel, corn syrup, granulated sugar and brown sugar. Place over
  medium heat and stir with a wooden spoon until mixture comes to a
  boil. Clip on candy thermometer. Cook to 236 F (115 C) or soft- ball
  stage. Remove from heat and allow mixture to cool to lukewarm.
  Meanwhile, butter a 9-inch square baking pan; set aside. Add dates
  and nuts to fudge. Using a wooden spoon, stir until mixture thickens
  and begins to set up. Scrape into prepared pan. Refrigerate 3 hours
  or until firm. Cut into 1-inch squares. Serve immediately, or store
  in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Shared by ELLIE COLLIN
  (CMKD93F)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buttermilk Fudge
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 81 servings
 
      1 c  BUTTERMILK
    1/2 c  BUTTER or MARGARINE
      3 tb LIGHT CORN SYRUP
      1 ts BAKING SODA
      2 c  GRANULATED SUGAR
      1 ts VANILLA
      2 c  NUTS (optional)
 
  Butter a 9-inch square baking pan; set aside. In a heavy 2-quart
  saucepan, combine buttermilk, butter or margarine, corn syrup, baking
  soda and sugar. Place over medium-high heat and stir occasionally
  with a wooden spoon until mixture comes to a boil. Clip on candy
  thermometer. Stirring constantly, cook to 236 F (115 C) or soft-ball
  stage. Remove from heat. Leave thermometer and wooden spoon in the
  pan and let mixture stand undisturbed until temperature cools to 210
  F (110 C). Add vanilla and nuts and stir until mixture is creamy.
  Pour into prepared pan. Refrigerate 3 hours or until firm. Cut into
  1-inch squares. Store in refrigerator. Shared by ELLIE COLLIN,
  Prodigy ID# CMKD93F.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Fudge
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      3 c  Sugar
      2 oz Unsweetend Bakers Choc.
      1 c  Evaporated milk (Carnation)
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Margarine
      2 tb Peanut Butter (Optional)
 
  Stir until liquid then over a low heat bring to a slow boil. Stir very
  little while cooking. Cook until 1/2 tsp of fudge dropped in cold
  water forms a soft ball. (About 7 -8 minutes). Take from stove and
  add vanilla and margarine. (For Jan's add Peanut butter). Beat until
  it is about the consistency of Pudding. Pour into a greased 8 x 8
  pan. When it is almost firm mark your cuts. When cool finish cutting
  and remove from pan. Enjoy. This recipe was used during World War
  2..for sending to the US Marines fighting overseas.. It was canned
  and they opened it like 'cranberry jelly' and sliced it into pieces.
  Recipe from Agnes Gibbs local 'Radio Personality' 1940 Portland,
  Maine Shared by Jan Cargill, Prodigy ID# VHPK03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golden Fudge
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 64 servings
 
      1 c  WHIPPING CREAM*
    1/2 c  WATER
    1/4 c  LIGHT CORN SYRUP
      3 tb BUTTER
      3 c  GRANULATED SUGAR
    1/2 ts SALT
      1 ts VANILLA
 
  *Note: Evaporated milk may be substituted for the whipping cream if
  desired. Butter an 8-inch square baking pan; set aside. In a heavy
  4-quart saucepan, combine milk, water, corn syrup, butter, sugar and
  salt. Place over medium-high heat and stir with a wooden spoon until
  mixture comes to a boil. Clip on candy thermometer. Stirring
  constantly, cook to 238 F (115 C) or soft-ball stage. Remove from
  heat. Without stirring, pour vanilla over mixture. Leaving
  thermometer in the pan, cool mixture to 110 F (45 C). Remove
  thermometer. Using a wooden spoon, stir mixture for several minutes
  until it starts to thicken and lose its gloss. Scrape into prepared
  pan. Refrigerate 4 hours or until firm. Cut into 1-inch squares.
  VARIATIONS Cherry Fudge - Cut 32 candied cherries in half. Mark fudge
  into 1-inch pieces. While fudge is still warm, place 1 cherry half on
  top of each piece. Nut Fudge - Stir in 1 cup walnuts, pecans or
  peanuts before pouring into pan. Cherry Nut Fudge - Stir in 1/2 cup
  chopped candied cherries and 1/2 cup unsalted nuts before pouring
  into pan. Coconut Fudge ~ Stir in 3/4 cup coconut before pouring into
  pan. Pineapple-Coconut Fudge ~ Stir in 1/3 cup chopped candied
  pineapple, 1/2 teaspoon pineapple extract and 1/2 cup coconut before
  pouring into pan. Lemon or Orange Fudge ~ Stir in 1 teaspoon lemon or
  orange extract and 4 drops of food coloring before pouring into pan.
  Shared by ELLIE COLLIN, Prodigy ID# CMKD93F.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rum-Raisin Fudge
 Categories: Candy, Chocolate
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Dark rum
  2 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Evaporated milk
      1    7 oz jar marshmallow creme
      2 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      1 ts Rum extract
 
  In a small bowl, combine raisins and rum. Marinate overnight. In a
  large, heavy saucepan, combine sugar, butter, and milk. Cook over
  medium heat, stirring constantly until mixture reaches soft ball
  stage (238 degress on a candy thermometer, about 5 minutes). Remove
  from heat. Stir in marshmallow creme, chocolate chips, pecans,
  extract, and raisin mixture. Spread mixture into a lightly greased
  10x8x2-inch baking pan. Cool and cut into squares. Shared by Rita
  Taule, BTVC62A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutty Chocolate Mint Fudge
 Categories: Candy, Herbs/spice, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      7 oz Marshmallow Cream; (1 jar)
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Evaporated Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
    1/2 c  Chopped Nuts
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
 
  In heavy gauge saucepan, combine marshmallow cream, sugar, evaporated
  milk, butter and salt.  Bring to a FULL ROLLING BOIL over medium
  heat, stirring constantly.  Remove from heat.  Add Mint-Chocolate
  chips; stir until chips are melted and mixture is smooth.  Add nuts
  and vanilla extract. Pour into foil-lined 8-inch square pan.  Chill
  until firm, about 2 hours. Cut into 1-inch squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minty Mallows
 Categories: Candy, Herbs/spice, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     14 oz Sweetened Condensed Milk
  1 1/2 c  Mint-Chocolate Chips;Nestles
      2 c  Marshmallows; Miniature
      1 c  Nuts; Coarsley Chopped
 
  Combine over hot (not boiling) water; sweetened condensed milk and
  mint chocolate chips.  Stir until chips are melted and mixture is
  smooth.  In a large bowl, combine marshmallows and nuts.  Add
  chocolate mixture; mix well.  Spread into a foil-lined 9-inch square
  pan.  Chill until firm, about 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Creme De Mints
 Categories: Candy, Chocolate, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Milk Chocolate Chips;Nestles
    1/4 c  Sour Cream
  2 1/2 tb Mint Flavored Liqueur
 
  Melt over hot (not boiling) water, milk chocolate chips; stir until
  smooth. Remove from heat.  Blend in sour cream.  Stir in mint
  flavored liqueur. Transfer to a small bowl.  Chill until thickened,
  about 30 minutes. Fill pastry bag fitted with decorative tip; pipe
  1-inch candies onto foil-lined cookie sheets.  Chill until ready to
  serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Truffles
 Categories: Dessert, Candy
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate *
      4 tb Unsalted butter **
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      2    Egg yolks; lightly beaten
      4 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
 
  *Note: Semisweet chocolate should be coarsely chopped. ** Unsalted
  butter should be cut into small pieces. In a double boiler, melt the
  chocolate and butter over simmering water. Remove from the heat and
  stir in the vanilla. In a small bowl, gradually whisk the warm
  chocolate mixture into the egg yolks.  Cover and refrigerate until
  firm, about 1 hour. Shape level tablespoons of the chocolate mixture
  into balls and then roll them in the cocoa.  Refrigerate the
  truffles. ~--
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate-Marbled Fudge
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 1/2 oz Semisweet chocolate pieces;
           - chopped
 
  Combine the sugar, cream, milk, corn syrup and salt in a heavy, large
  saucepan. Bring slowly to boiling, stirring constantly, until the
  sugar dissolves. boil gently, stirring occasionally, until mixture
  reaches 238F on the candy thermometer or soft ball stage. Remove from
  heat. Cool for 5 minutes. Add the vanilla. Beat in vigorously until
  the mixture begins to thicken and lose its glossy look, about 5
  minutes. Pour half the fudge into a well buttered 8x8x2-inch baking
  pan. Sprinkle evenly with half of the chocolate pieces. Pour in the
  remaining fudge. Sprinkle with the remaining chocolate pieces. Cool
  completely on a wire rack. Cut into 1- inch squares. Source: ?
  Magazine 1985-1987 Note: the picture of this shows the fudge to be
  very light in color, almost like nougat, with the chocolate pieces
  showing in the middle and on top.
   -- ~-- * SLMR 2.0 * If you see an onion ring....Answer it!  TNet
  3.50  Intelec * Paradise Island * Houston, Tx * (713) 488-2032
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: COLOSSUS Date: 12-03-92 (09:00) Number: 2251 From: DIANE
  MILLER Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: Flank Steak Conf: (125)
  COOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Candy
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 3 servings
 
 10 1/2 oz Marshmallows
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Coconut
  1 1/4 c  Semi sweet choc. chips
      2 c  Rice Chrispie
 
  Line a 13X9 pan with foil.  Grease or spray with Pam. Combine
  marshmallows, butter, and chocolate in a microwavable bowl.  Mike for
  4-6 min. checking and stirring every 2 min. until melted. Stir in
  Rice Chrispies and coconut. Spread in pan quickly using a buttered
  spatula. Chill. Cut into small bars, finger size. I double this
  recipie and use a cookie sheet. They are a hit whenever I make them.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Candied Grapefruit
 Categories: Fruit, Dessert, Candy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Plump, pink grapefruit,
           - preferably organic
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Corn syrup
           Superfine sugar; for coating
      5 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 tb Butter
 
  SCORE GRAPEFRUIT INTO QUARTERS and carefully pull off peels or juice
  fruits and cut halves again in half. Place peels in large pan, cover
  them with cold water and bring to boil. Simmer 25 minutes. Remove
  peels and let them cool until they are easy to handle. Hold peels
  firmly against counter and gently scrape away most of white pith just
  below skin. Cut cleaned peels into strips with knife or scissors as
  narrow or wide as you like. In 2-quart saucepan, mix together sugar,
  water and corn syrup. Bring to boil. When syrup is clear, add peels,
  lower heat and cook slowly until peels are translucent, about 1 hour.
  Set cake rack over baking sheet. Remove peels a few at a time and
  spread them out on rack to drain about 15 minutes. While they are
  draining, thickly cover large plate with super- fine sugar. Set
  several pieces at a time in sugar and turn them to coat them. When
  evenly coated, set them aside on another plate or piece of parchment
  paper thinly coated with sugar. This process will need to be done in
  several batches. If sugar become lumpy with beads of syrup, pass it
  through a strainer, then continue using it. Set aside sugared peels
  about 1 hour or until they are dried. Carefully package them in tin
  or plastic container and store either in cupboard or refrigerator. To
  dip peels in chocolate, melt semisweet chocolate over simmering water
  along with butter. Stir well to ensure that mixture is smooth before
  removing from heat. Dip each rind into chocolate, coating most of it
  but leaving a little "handle" to grasp. Or, completely immerse each
  rind in chocolate, then remove with 2 forks or pair of chopsticks.
  Set slices on parchment paper or cake rack and place in cool place to
  harden. Once chocolate has set, pieces can be stored in refrigerator.
  Chocolate will discolor when it cools but will become dark and glossy
  again once brought to room temperature.
  
  Makes 3 Cups
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Dipped Almonds
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Almonds; blanched whole
           - about 36
 
  In a small but heavy saucepan melt the chocolate and the butter,
  stirring constantly until blended and smooth. Remove from heat. Line
  a cookie sheet with wax paper. Dip the wide end of the almond into
  the chocolate mixture, and place on the prepared cookie sheet.
  Refrigerate for 30 minutes to set the chocolate.
  
   -- --- * SLMR 2.0 * Daddy, what's this red button for? #%&^%$#$@ 
  TNet 3.50  Intelec * Paradise Island * Houston, Tx * (713) 488-2032
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: COLOSSUS Date: 11-11-92 (14:36) Number: 1776 From: DIANE
  MILLER Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: Chocolate Almond Morsels
  Conf: (125) COOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Almond Morsels
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 30 servings
 
  8 1/2 oz Chocolate wafer cookies
  1 1/2 c  Almonds; blanched & slivered
    1/3 c  Almond flavored liqueur
      3 tb Corn syrup
           Powdered sugar
 
  In a food processor or blender, process the cookies and the almonds
  until finely ground. Add the liqueur and the corn syrup, and process
  to mix. Line a large cookie sheet with wax paper. Spread about 1/2
  cup of powdered sugar in a shall dish, and dust your hands lightly
  with some additional powdered sugar. Roll almond mixture into 30
  balls. Roll ball in the powdered sugar to coat completely. Place on
  the prepared cookie sheet and refrigerate for at least 8 hours until
  firm.
  
  Makes 30 candies.
  
   -- --- * SLMR 2.0 * Daddy, what's this red button for? #%&^%$#$@ 
  TNet 3.50  Intelec * Paradise Island * Houston, Tx * (713) 488-2032
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: COLOSSUS Date: 11-11-92 (14:37) Number: 1777 From: DIANE
  MILLER Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: Chocolate Clusters Conf:
  (125) COOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Peanut Clusters
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      4 oz Semisweet chocolate
      4 oz Milk chocolate
      1 ts Oil
      2 c  Cocktail peanuts
           - remove some of the salt by
           - shaking peanuts
 
  Line a large baking sheet with waxed paper. Combine chocolate and oil
  in the top of a double boiler and melt over hot, but not boiling
  water. Stir until blended. Add peanuts and mix until coated. Drop by
  scant teaspoons onto waxed paper. Chill in refrigerator until firm.
  Serve directly from refrigerator. Makes about 30 1 1/2 inch clusters.
  
   -- --- * SLMR 2.0 * Daddy, what's this red button for? #%&^%$#$@ 
  TNet 3.50  Intelec * Paradise Island * Houston, Tx * (713) 488-2032
  ======================================================================
  ==== BBS: COLOSSUS Date: 11-12-92 (13:27) Number: 1778 From: DIANE
  MILLER Refer#: NONE To: ALL Recvd: NO Subj: Carnation 01 Conf: (125)
  COOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Champagne Truffles
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------CENTER MIXTURE----------------------------
      8 oz Cream
      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Cognac

MMMMM--------------------------ENROBING-------------------------------
      1 lb Bittersweet chocolate
      1 lb Cocoa
 
  It is important to use an excellent quality chocolate when making
  truffles since it is the primary ingredient. Valhrona is my first
  choice and Callebaut is my second.
  
  BRING THE CREAM TO A BOIL and pour it over the cut chocolate. Allow to
  stand 1-to-2 minutes and stir smooth. Beat in the softened butter and
  cool to set. Beat with an electric mixer (using a paddle attachment if
  available) on medium speed until light. Beat in Cognac. Pipe out small
  truffles on parchment or waxed paper with a pastry bag fitted with a
  1/2-inch plain tube. Refrigerate to set. Melt the chocolate. Sift the
  cocoa into a deep pan. Dip the truffles in the melted chocolate and
  then deposit them in the cocoa, shaking the pan to cover them. After
  the covering sets, shake the truffles in a strainer to remove the
  excess cocoa.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Pecan Orange Balls
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 100 servings
 
      1 lb Pecans; shelled and ground
  8 1/2 oz Chocolate wafers; crushed
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      1 ts Orange peel
    1/3 c  Honey
           Powdered sugar
 
  Combine all ingredient, except powdered sugar, in a large bowl. Mix
  well/ chill for 20 minutes. Shape by spoonful into round balls. Store
  in a tightly covered, airtight container. Just before servings or
  giving, roll in powdered sugar.
  
  Makes 100 balls
  
   -- ---
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Pecan Rum Balls
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 100 servings
 
      1 lb Pecans, shelled and ground
  8 1/2 oz Chocolate wafers; crushed
    1/2 c  Dark rum
    1/3 c  Honey
           Powdered sugar
 
  Combine all ingredients, except powdered sugar, in a large bowl. Mix
  well. Chill for 20 minutes. Shape by spoonful into round balls. Store
  in a tightly covered, airtight container. Just before serving or
  giving, roll in powdered sugar. Makes 100 balls.
  
   -- ---
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stained Glass Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Candy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 3/4 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Unsalted butter
      2 ts Lightly beaten egg
  1 1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
    1/8 ts Lemon extract
      1 c  Sour balls
 
  Soften the butter.  In a mixing bowl, cream together the butter and
  sugar until fluffy.  Add the egg and extracts and beat until blended.
  In a small bowl, whisk together the remaining dry ingredients. On low
  speed, gradually add them to the butter mixture and mix just until
  the dough can be gathered into a ball.  Scrape the dough onto a sheet
  of plastic wrap and use the wrap (not your fingers) to press the
  dough together to form a thick flat disc.  Wrap it well and
  refridgerate for at least 30 minutes, preferably no longer than 3
  hours.
  
   Place 2 oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven.
  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.
  
   Separate the sour balls into individual colors and pulverize them
  separately in a blender or food processor. Place each color in a small
  container and set aside.
  
   Using about a quarter of the dough at a time, roll out the dough to
  1/8 inch thickness between 2 sheets of plastic wrap, or on a lightly
  floured counter.  Cut the cookies out with a 3 inch cookie cutter,
  spraying or greasing the cutter as needed to prevent sticking. With a
  small spatula,transfer the cookies to foil lined cookie sheets
  sprayed with nonstick vegetable coating.  If you are planning to hang
  the cookies, make holes in the tops.
  
   Cut out shapes for the stained glass in each cookie with small
  cutters or with a small sharp knife.  Use the tip of the knife to
  fill the holes with candy pieces, filling just to the top of the
  dough.
  
   Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until the cookies are lightly browned and
  the candy has melted completely.  For even baking, rotate the cookie
  sheets frm top to bottom and front to back during baking. Watch
  carefully toward the end of baking to see that the candy does not
  turn brown. Allow to cool on baking sheets and carefully peel off
  aluminum foil.
  
  FROM:    BEVERLY LEYMON   (GWRR14B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Karen's Caramel Corn
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Candy, Dessert, Popcorn
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Butter
      2 c  Brown Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Karo Syrup
      1 ts Baking Soda
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      6 qt Popped Popcorn
 
  Mix Butter, Brown Sugar, Salt and Karo Syrup together in pan, cook
  for 5 minutes and remove from heat.  Stir in Baking Soda and Vanilla
  then pour mixture over popped popcorn. Place on pan in 200 deg oven
  for 1 hour stirring every 15 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Halvah
 Categories: Dessert, Candy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Sesame Seeds
  1 1/2 c  Honey
      1 ts Ginger
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Allspice
 
  Toast 6 cups of sesame seeds in a skillet or oven.  Blend the seeds
  in a blender one cup at a time.  Add honey, ginger, cinnamon and
  allspice and mix in well.  Pat into a 13" X 9" pan and refrigerate.
  Cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marshmallow Easter Eggs
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 26 servings
 
           -Robbie Shelton
      2    Envelopes Unflavored
           -Gelatin
      2 tb -Cold Water
    1/2 c  -Boiling Water
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Flour
    3/4 lb Chocolate for dipping
           Regal Icing
 
  Put gelatin in top of double boiler; add cold water.  When gelatin
  softens, add boiling water and stil well.  Add sugar and salt.  Put
  over boiling water and stir until sugar dissolves completely.
  
  Pour into large bowl of electric mixer and beat at high speed until
  misture is thick but not as stiff as beaten egg whites.  Add vanilla.
  
  Meanwhile, spread flour 2" deep in a large pan.  Push an egg (in
  shell) into the flour  at intervals, making hollow spaces in which to
  mold the marshmallow mixture.
  
  Drop marshmallow mixture into the flour molds.  Sprinkle flour
  lightly over top and put in cold place until set.  Remove mixture
  from one mold and you have a  half-egg.  Trim the flat side of
  marshmallow half-egg to make it even.  You can dip it in melted
  chocolate to cover and decorate with Regal Icing.
  
  Or you can put two halves together to make an egg, as follows:  Dip
  the rounded part of a half-egg in melted chocolate; set aside to
  cool, flat (uncoated) side down.  Trim flat side of second half-egg
  (to make it even), lift from mold and completely coat with chocolate.
  Quickly press its flat side against the flat side of the cooled
  half-egg and you have a whole egg. The chocolate will hold it
  together.
  
  When chocolate-coated eggs are cool, trim with Regal Icing put
  through cake decorator tube.  Make ruffles around them to cover seam
  where the two halves join and to provide decoration.  Write names of
  children on their eggs with the icing, or decorate with tiny designs
  pressed through fine tips of a cake decorator tube.  Frosting my be
  left white or tinted in pastel colors.  Makes 13 eggs (or 26
  half-eggs).
  
  This recipe is from HOMEMADE CANDY by the authors of Farm Journal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Filled Eggs
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Robbie Shelton XXXJ77A
      8 oz Dark Couverture Chocolate
      8 lg Eggs
      1 c  Heavy Cream
    1/2    Stick Butter
    1/2 c  Hazelnut Chocolate Spread
           -(Nutella)
 
  To prepare the eggs, allow them to warm to room temperatures, wash and
  shake each one well.  With a sharp knife, remove a small piece of sh
  ell from one end and puncture the other end of each egg with a
  needle. Remove the yolks and whites by blowing through the small
  hole.  Rinse the shells with water and allow to dry.  Place them,
  large hole up, in an empty egg carton.
  
  Cut the chocolate into small pieces.  Bring the heavy cream to the
  boiling point in a saucepan, add the chocolate and stir with a whisk
  until the chocolate is melted and well blended.  Remove from the heat
  and add the butter and hazelnut chocolate spread.  Whisk until
  blended.
  
  Using a small funnel, pour the filling, while still warm, into the egg
  shells and refrigerate.
  
  Serve the eggs in egg cups.
  
  This recipe is from Salt and Pepper Publications "Chocolate The French
  Way.."
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whiskey Balls
 Categories: Dessert, Candy, Alcohol, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      3 c  Vanilla wafer crumbs
    1/2 c  Finely chopped pecans
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      2 c  Confectioner's sugar
    1/2 c  Bourbon
      3 tb Light corn syrup
           Salt, if desired
 
  1.  Blend together the crumbs, nuts, cocoa, 1 cup confectioner's
  sugar, bourbon, corn syrup, and a dash of salt.  Form into small
  balls the size of walnuts.
  
  2.  Roll each ball in the remaining 1 cup confectioner's sugar and
  place on a cookie sheet.  Chill in the refrigerator for several hours
  or overnight.
  
  Note:  It is traditional in the South to use bourbon, but rye may
  also be used. This confection -- or at least a version of it -- was
  an early Southern version of those chocolate truffles that became the
  rage for chocolate lovers during the 1980s in this country. The
  whiskey balls are made, of course, with cocoa rather than chocolate.
  
  ~-From Craig Claiborne's "Southern Cooking"
  
  ~-Lovingly hacked in for the FIDO Cooking Echo by Wesley Pitts, the
    Bourbon Cowboy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Horehound Drops
 Categories: Candy, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Fresh horehound leaves
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Corn syrup or honey
 
  Put the horehound in a small nonreactive sauce pan and add the water.
  Bring to a boil and simmer, covered, or 20 minutes.  Allow to cool,
  then remove horehound and squeeze out all the liquid.  Add the sugar
  and corn syrup or honey to the pan, stir with a wooden spoon while
  bringing to a boil, then turn heat down to a gentle simmer.  If
  bubbles threaten to overflow the pan, reduce heat slightly and stir.
  
  Boil to the hard-crack stage.  If you have a candy thermometer, this
  is in the range of 330 F, but even so you'll need to test often
  toward the end of cooking to get the hardness right.  Keep a shallow
  cup of cold water nearby.  Stir the liquid occasionally, and watch
  how it falls from the spoon.  When it forms a thread, begin testing
  for hardness by allowing a drop of the mixture to fall into the cup
  of cold water.  Don't trust your fingers to examine the now-hardened
  drop in the cup; bite it.  If it's at all gooey or sticks to your
  teeth, keep cooking.  When it's hard enough to crack when you bite
  it, remove the pan from heat immediately.
  
  If the mixture crystallizes, just add a cup of water and an extra
  tablespoon of corn syrup or honey to the pan, scrape all the
  crystalline chunks into it, and begin again.
  
  Lightly butter a candy mold, cookie sheet, or other heatproof baking
  pan, and pour in the hot mixture.  If you're using a flat-bottomed
  pan, score the surface of the candy after it has cooled enough to
  become firm.  This will help in breaking it apart, which should be
  done as soon as the candy can be handled.
  
  After individual "drops" are formed, sift granulated sugar or powdered
  sugar over them to keep them from sticking together.  Store in a
  moisture-proof container.
  
  Source: The Herb Companion - February/March 1993 Typed for you by
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Alfie and Archie's Dog Biscuits
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/2 c  Powdered dry milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Brown sugar
      6 T  Meat drippings
      1 ea Beaten egg
    1/2 c  Ice water
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350.  Lightly oil a cookie sheet.  Combine flour,
  dry milk, salt, garlic powder and sugar.  Cut in meat drippings until
  mixture resembles corn meal.  Mix in egg.  Add enough water so that
  mixture forms a ball.  Using your fingers, pat out dough onto cookie
  sheet to half inch thick.  Cut with cookie cutter or knife and remove
  scraps. Scraps can be formed again and baked. 2.  Bake 25-30 minutes.
   Remove from tray and cool on rack. from:  _Cookiemania_
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Tart in Walnut Pastry
 Categories: Pie/tart, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 ea Chopped scallions,
      6 oz Jar marinated artichoke hear
      1 c  Light cream
      3 ea Eggs
    1/2 pt Salt
      1 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 pt Salt
      8 T  Cold unsalted butter, cut up
      1 ea Egg
      1 cl Garlic, finely minced
      4 T  Butter  ea
 
  Ground pepper, to taste             8 oz Gruyere cheese, grated 
  WALNUT PASTRY                     1/2 c  walnuts, toasted, cooled
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees for 10 minutes. 1.   Saute scallions and
  garlic in butter until softened.  Cut artichoke 2.   Combine cream,
  eggs, salt and pepper in medium bowl. 3.   Sprinkle grated cheese
  over the bottom of the partially baked crust. 4.   Bake 35 minutes
  until golden and slightly puffy.  Let rest 10 WALNUT PASTRY 1.
   Process walnuts until coarsely ground.  Add flour and salt to work
  2.   Place pieces of butter atop dry ingredients and pulse until
  mixture 3.   Add egg and process just until mixture begins to hold
  together. Do 4. Remove dough from processor and shape into a
  flattened  disc.  Cover 5. Roll dough large enough to fit into 10
  inch quiche or tart pan. 6. Line chilled pastry with large sheet of
  aluminum foil and fill with
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic-Stuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Appetizer, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 ea Medium mushrooms
      3 T  Unsalted butter
      2 ea Scallions, sliced
  1 1/2 T  Coarsely ground pecans
  1 1/2 T  Fresh parmesan cheese *
  1 1/2 T  Bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Garlic bechemel
      1 x  Salt (to taste)
      1 x  Freshly ground white pepper
      1 x  Cayenne pepper
      4 T  Unsalted butter
      4 T  Unbleached all-purpose fl
 
  *  Grate the Fresh Parmesan Cheese for this recipe.
  ~--- Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Clean the mushrooms.  Remove the
  stems and reserve. Parboil the mushrooms in just enough water to
  cover, for 3 minutes, until barely cooked.  Drain well, blot with
  paper towels, and set aside until needed. If the tip of the stems
  seem woody, trim them away. Chop stems coarsely. Melt 2 T of the
  butter in a skillet. Toss the chopped mushrooms stems and scallions.
  Saute until tender and most of the mushroom juices have evaporated.
  Toss in the pecans, pecans, bred crumbs, parmesan cheese, and
  remaining tablespoon of butter. Stir until the butter is melted and
  absorbed. Stir in the garlic bechamel. Add salt and freshly ground
  pepper to taste. Stuff each mushroom cap with the mixture, mounding
  it neatly over the top. Sprinkle each with some cayenne pepper. Put
  stuffed mushrooms in a lightly oiled, shallow baking dish.  Bake for
  10 minutes or until heated through.  Serve at once. GARLIC BECHAMEL:
  2 1/2 C Scalded Milk (More or less, depending on the thickness of 1
    X     Salt and Freshly Ground White Pepper To Taste 1     Ea Large
  Egg At Room Temperature. 1     X     Garlic Puree From 3 Large Heads
  Of Roasted Garlic Melt the butter in a heavy saucepan and whisk in
  the flour. Let this roux cook over low heat, stirring constantly for
  3 to 4 minutes. Whisk in the scalded milk.  Bring to a boil. Reduce
  the heat and cook gently, stirring frequently, for 10 to 15 minutes.
  Add salt and pepper and whisk in the garlic puree.  Remove from the
  heat. Beat the egg in a bowl. Beat some of the sauce into the egg.
  Next beat the egg mixture back into the garlic sauce.  Taste and
  correct seasonings. Store in the refrigerator, with plastic wrap
  placed directly on the surface of the sauce, until needed.  Thin with
  milk before using if necessary.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops with Garlic and Onions (Suon Uop Hanh T
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 T  Granulated sugar
      2 T  Fish sauce(nuoc mam)
      1 ea Onion
      4 ea Cloves garlic
      1 T  Vegetable oil
      4 ea Boneless pork chops
 
  Combine salt, sugar, fish sauce, minced onion, chopped garlic and
  oil. Pour over chops in a shallow dish.  Let marinate 3 to 4 hours,
  turning meat occaisionally.  Grill or bake in a 350 degree oven for
  45 minutes to 60 minutes or until cooked.  Slice  into bite sizes
  pieces before serving. Make 4 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Prime Rib   (Rich Davis, K.c. Masterpiece R
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 lb Prime rib roast
      1 x  Dry rub seasonings
 
  Place dry rub seasonings over entire roast surface. Grill roast in
  smoker (indirect heat) for 3 to 4 hours at 200 to 250 deg. or until a
  meat thermometer indicates 140 deg (for M-Rare). Sprinkle crushed
  rosemary leaves 3/4 of the way thought the cooking time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yogurt Chicken with Garlic-Mint Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Plain yogurt
      1 c  Bread crumbs
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
      4 ea Chicken thighs, skinned
      4 ea Chicken legs, skinned
      1 x  Dipping sauce
      1 x  Garlic puree from 1 head
    1/2 ea Small onion, coarsely cho
      1 ea Thin slice ginger root, p
      2 T  Chopped green chilies, (c
      1 ts Sugar
      1 x  Salt to taste
    3/4 c  Fresh mint leaves
    1/4 c  Fresh coriander (chinese
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley leaves
 
  Preheat oven to 400 Degrees F. Pour yogurt into wide shallow bowl and
  set it on your work surface. Season the bread crumbs with salt and
  freshly ground pepper.  Spread crumbs out on a platter and place next
  to the yogurt.  Place a wire rack over a baking sheet and set it
  aside. Dry chicken pieces.  Dip each piece into the yougurt untl
  throughtly coated on both sides. Then roll each piece in the crumbs,
  pressing the piece in so that the crumbs adhere. Each piece should be
  evenly coated. Place chicken on the wire rack.  Bake for 40 to 45
  minutes. To serve, place a piece of chicken on each of 4 small plates.
   Pour some sauce in a crecent on the bottom edge of each plate around
  the chicken but not on it.  Place the remaining chicken on a platter
  and pass the remaining souce in a clear pitcher.  Serve hot or at
  room temperature. DIPPING SAUCE: 1     C     Plain Yogurt
  ~--- Place all the ingredients in a blender or food processor.  Flick
  the motor on and off unti a thin flecked green sauce is achieved.
  Serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Year Fried Rice
 Categories: Asian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Strips bacon, diced
    3/4 c  Chopped green onions & tops
    1/3 c  Diced red bell pepper
    1/4 c  Frozen green peas, thawed
      1    Egg, beaten
      4 c  Cold cooked rice
      2 tb Kikkoman Soy Sauce
 
  Cook bacon in wok or large skilled over medium heat until crisp.  Add
  green onions, red pepper and peas; stir-fry 1 minute.  Add egg and
  scramble.  Stir in rice and cook until heated, gently separating
  grains.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Tofu Stir-Fry
 Categories: Asian, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Block tofu
      2 T  Vegetable oil
      1 ts Minced fresh ginger root
      1    Medium onion, chuncked
    1/8 ts Salt
      6 oz Snow peas, trimmed and cut
           -diagonally in half
    1/3 c  Kikkoman Stir-Fry Sauce
      2    Medium-size fresh tomatoes,
           -chunked
    1/4 c  Slivered blanched almonds,
           -toasted
 
  Cut tofu into 1/2-inch cubes; drain well on several layers of paper
  towels.  Heat oil in hot wok or large skillet over high heat.  Add
  ginger; strir-fry 30 seconds, or until fragrant.  Add onion and salt;
  stir-fry 1 minute.  Add stir-fry sauce, tomatoes and tofu.  Gently
  stir to coat tofu and vegetables with sauce.  Reduce heat and cook
  only until tomatoes and tofu are heated through.  Sprinkle with
  almonds; serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cuban Black Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Main dish, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beans, dried black
      1 c  Onion; chopped
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      4 c  Water
      1    Bouillon cube, beef
     12 oz Ham, cooked lean
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Thyme, dried leaf
    1/2 ts Oregano, dried leaf
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Pepper, dried whole red
      1 c  Pepper, green bell; chopped
    1/3 c  Dark rum (optional)
      1 c  Sour cream (optional)
 
  Sort and soak beans overnight; drain and discard soak water. In a
  4-quart pot, saute onion in butter or marg until tender but not
  browned. Add soaked beans, 4 cups water, bouillon cube, ham (cut into
  4-6 chunks), bay leaves, thyme, oregano, salt & red pepper. Bring to
  boil; reduce heat. Cover and simmer until beans are tender, 1 to
  1-1/2 hour. Remove 1 c. beans from stew, mash in a bowl with potato
  masher or fork. Add mashed beans to stew; stir to thicken. Remove ham
  and dice. Remove bay leaves and red pepper, if used and discard. Add
  diced meat, green pepper and rum (if desired) to beans. Cover and
  simmer 15 minutes. Serve beans over rice and top with sour cream if
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kahlua Brownies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 2 dozen
 
MMMMM--------------------------BROWNIE-------------------------------
      2 oz Chocolate, unsweetened
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs; well beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Coffee, instant crystals
      2 tb Kahlua
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder

MMMMM---------------------------ICING--------------------------------
      2 oz Chocolate, unsweetened; chpd
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      7 tb Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Corn syrup, light
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      6 oz Chocolate chips, semi-sweet
 
  BROWNIES: Melt chocolate and butter in top of double boiler. Remove
  from heat and mix thoroughly with all other ingredients. Pour into a
  buttered 8" square pan. Bake in a preheated 350 F oven for 30
  minutes.  Cool in pan.
  
  ICING: Mix all ingredients in sauce pan and bring to a boil, stirring
  constantly. Boil 1 minute and remove from heat. When cool, add
  vanilla. Sprinkle icing over cooled brownie base and sprinkle with
  chocolate chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Waldorf Red Velvet Cake and Frosting
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Flour, all purpose; sifted
           -2 to 3 times
      1 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Food coloring, red
      2 tb Cocoa
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1 tb Vinegar

MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 c  Milk
      5 ts Flour, all purpose
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar, powdered; sifted
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  CAKE:  Cream shortening and sugar till fluffy.  Add eggs and beat 1
  minute. Add salt, beat.  Add vanilla and coloring to buttermilk.
  Alternate adding flour and milk mixtures to batter. Combine soda and
  vinegar in cup and add to cake batter.  Bake in (2) 9" cake pans at
  350F for 25 to 30 minutes. Cool on cake racks.
  
  FROSTING: Cook milk and flour until thick; cool in fridge. Beat
  butter, sugar and vanilla with mixer. Add flour and milk mixture a
  little at a time (make ahead of cake so that it has plenty of time to
  cool). Beat well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grandma's Current Pound Cake
 Categories: Bread, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Currants
      1 lb Margarine or butter
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Mace
      9    Eggs; separated
  4 1/4 c  Flour, all purpose; sifted
      1 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Rinse Currents in hot water, drain and dry on a towel.
  
  Cream butter until fluffy, add sugar and spice and cream thoroughly.
  Beat egg yolks until thick and creamy; add to butter mixture and
  blend well. Add one half of the flour and mix until smooth; add
  remainder of flour and mix until smooth again.  Mix in stiffly beaten
  egg whites. Pour into 2 paper lined loaf pans (9"x4"x2.5") and bake
  at 350F for 1 hour and 25 minutes.
  
  Test for doneness by inserting a toothpick in center.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whole Wheat Bread (Machine)
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
  2 1/2 ts Yeast, dry
  2 1/4 c  Flour, bread
    3/4 c  Flour, whole wheat
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Milk, dry skim
  4 1/2 ts Shortening or sweet butter
  1 1/4 c  Plus 1 T lukewarm water
 
  Put dry yeast in inner pot. Add all remaining ingredients except
  water. Carefully pour in lukewarm water. Press the Select button for
  white bread. Press the Start button. (When using the preset timer,
  refer to the instruction manual.) After taking out the baked bread
  from the auto bakery, slice it as desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Tamale Pie
 Categories: Main dish, Low-cal/fat, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------VEGETABLE FILLING--------------------------
     14 oz Beans, cooked pinto; drained
      1 c  Onion, white; chopped
    1/2 c  Pepper, green bell; cubed
      2    Pepper, jalapeno; seeded and
           -chopped
      2 c  Tomatoes, chopped canned;
           -drained
    1/2 c  Pepper, red bell; cubed
      6 oz Cheese, sharp cheddar;
           -grated
      8    Olives, ripe; sliced
    3/4 ts Garlic
    3/4 ts Cumin, ground
    3/4 ts Chile powder

MMMMM-----------------------TAMALE TOPPING----------------------------
    1/2 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 tb Flour, all purpose; (add to
           -above)
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
  3 3/4 oz Cornmeal, yellow
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 lg Egg; @ room temp
    1/2 c  Yogurt, plain
      2 ts Margarine; melted & cooled
      1 tb Chives; cut to garnish, opt.
 
  Preheat oven to 375F.
  
  Spray an 8"x8" pan with non-stick cooking spray. Into prepared baking
  pan, place all filling ingredients. Toss until well mixed; set aside.
  To prepare tamale topping, in medium bowl, place flour, cornmeal,
  baking powder, baking soda, and salt; stir until evenly mixed. In a
  small bowl, beat yogurt, egg and margarine. Add to dry ingredients
  and stir just until dry ingredients are moistened. Spoon mixture
  evenly on top of vegatable filling. If desired, sprinkle evenly with
  chives. Bake 35-40 minutes, until filling is hot and bubbly, topping
  is lightly browned and a toothpick inserted in center of topping
  comes clean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melitzanosalata
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Eggplants (1 - 1-1/2 lbs ea)
      4    Garlic cloves
      2    Tomatoes; peeled and chopped
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      2 tb Fresh parsley; chopped
      1 ts Dried oregano; crumbled
    1/3 c  Olive oil, more if necessary
      6 tb Red wine vinegar, or more
 
  Bake eggplants for 45 minutes in a 375 degree oven or in hot ashes.
  Peel off and discard the skin, then chop the eggplant flesh while
  still hot. Rub a wood or earthenware bowl with one of the garlic
  cloves, cut.  Add the eggplant and beat with a wooden spoon-- or if
  available use a wood mortar to pound the eggplants.  Continue
  pounding or beating, meanwhile adding the tomatoes, a little salt and
  pepper, 2 to 3 cloves garlic, crushed, and the herbs.  Continuing to
  beat, gradually add the olive oil alternately with the red wine
  vinegar.  Taste, adding oil and vinegar if necessary; melitzanosalata
  should be thick and smooth.  Serve cold with fish, meat, or fresh
  crisp bread. From "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles".
  Avenel Books, NY. Note: You will have excellent results by whipping
  melitzanosalata in a blender or food processor as well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Narsai's Pomegranate Lamb
 Categories: Greek, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Unsweet. pomegranate juice
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      2    Large onions
      1    Lemon; unpeeled, chopped
      3    Cloves garlic
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Chopped fresh basil leaves
      1 ts Salt
      1    (5- to 6-lb) leg of lamb *
 
  *Note: Leg of lamb should be butterflied. In blender, combine
  pomegranate juice, red wine, onions, lemon, garlic, pepper, basil and
  salt. Rub some of marinade well into lamb. Place meat in shallow
  glass or enamel pan. Pour remaining marinade over meat. Marinate in
  refrigerator overnight. When ready to cook, wipe off excess marinade.
  Grill over medium coals or roast the lamb at 325F until thermometer
  reaches 145F for medium-rare. Let rest 5 to 10 minutes before
  carving. Created by: Janet Trefethen, Trefethen Vineyards, Napa
  Valley, Calif. (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grecian Green Beans
 Categories: Vegetable, Greek, Beans
      Yield: 2 servings
 
     32 oz Canned Green Beans, Drained
      2 sm Onions *
      2    Minced Garlic Cloves
    1/4 c  Chopped Fresh Parsley
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Oregano
      2 ts Prepared Mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Coca-Cola
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      2 tb Vinegar
 
  * The onions should be sliced and separated into rings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dolmadakia (Stuffed Grapeleaves with Rice.)
 Categories: Appetizer, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 75 servings
 
     16 oz Grape leaves
    3/4 c  Extra virgin olive oil
      3    Onions; more if desired
           (shredded or minced finely)
  1 3/4 c  Rice
      1    Lemon, juiced
           - or more, to taste
           Dill; very finely chopped
  1 3/4 c  -Hot water
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Sautee the onion with half the oil. Add the rice and let cook for a
  few minutes. Add the dill, the hot water and salt and pepper. Boil
  for about 5 minutes. Let it cool.
  
  Steam the grape leaves and rinse with plenty of water in a collander.
  
  Wrap the rice mixture with the grape leaves. This is the most
  difficult and time consuming part, although after you are through it
  a couple of times you enjoy it the most. It is better if two people
  work on it simultaneously, talking, joking etc. You want to make them
  small in size (about 1-2 inches.) Do not hesitate to cut big leaves
  in half. Discard the central stem of these leaves and if you can
  reduce (with a sharp knife) any other tough stems it would be good.
  You want to wrap the rice very tightly. You place the rice in one
  end, fold from the short end and the two sides and then roll while
  pushing the rice downwards to pack it really tight. You have to do it
  a couple of times to understand. If they are not tightly packed they
  will unroll later. Also be careful to wrap totally, do not leave any
  holes.
  
  You arrange the dolmadakia in a casserole, tightly. Make more than one
  layers. Add the lemon juice, the rest of the olive oil and 1 1/2 cups
  of hot water. Cover them with a plate or something to keep them in
  place. Let them simmer for 35 minutes.
  
  Serve then cold, with strained yogurt or taramosalata. Enjoy.
  
    Georgios
  
  Posted by: rika@informix.com (Rika Tsitsinia)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Byzantine Dolmathes (Stuffed Grapeleaves)
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer, Main dish
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      1    Jar grapeleaves (or fresh)

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 tb Oil
      1 lb Ground beef or lamb
      2    Onions; chopped
      1    Garlic clove; pressed
      2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Tomato sauce
      1 c  Rice
      2 tb Chopped mint
      2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Currants
    1/4 c  Port wine (optional)
    1/4 c  Pine nuts or walnuts
      2 c  Water
      1    Lemon (juice only)

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      3    Eggs
      2    Lemons (stained juice only)
      1 c  Hot broth
 
  If using canned grape leaves, rinse off brine by floating leaves in a
  basin of cold water.  Prepare fresh vine leaves by pouring a cup of
  boiling water over them in a bowl.  Drain.  Spread 5 or 6 leaves out
  at a time on a flat surface.  Lay leaf stem side up.  Snip off stem
  with kitchen shears.
  
  MAKE FILLING:  Heat oil in large frying pan.  Fry meat, onions and
  garlic on medium heat for 5 minutes, mixing it as it cooks.  Add
  water and remaining ingredients.  Bring to a boil.  Cover.  Reduce
  heat to simmer and cook 10 minutes, until water is absorbed.  Set
  aside until cool enough to handle.  Put 1 teaspoon of filling near
  stem.  Bring left side of leaf towards center, then bring right side
  towards center.  They will not always meet.  Pick up stem end of
  leaf, tucking in the filling.  Roll away from you.  It will be an
  oblong roll like a sausage.
  
  Line the bottom of a large skillet with 4 leaves.  Place each roll so
  that the tucked under end is on the bottom.  Arrange each roll
  snugly, one next to the other, until all the leaves (except 3), and
  filling are gone. Place these leaves flat on top of rolls.  Place a
  flat dish on top of rolls also to prevent their unravelling during
  cooking.
  
  Add water and lemon juice.  Bring to a boil.  Cover.  Reduce heat to
  simmer and cook 45 minutes.  When done, remove pot from fire.  Make
  Egg and Lemon Sauce and add to broth immediately or serve without
  sauce either cold as an appetizer or as a hot entree.
  
  EGG AND LEMON SAUCE: Beat eggs until thick and light yellow, at least
  5 minutes, with an electric beater or 10 to 15 minutes by hand.  Add
  juice slowly, beating all the while.  Mix 1 cup hot broth into beaten
  eggs, stirring it in quickly with spoon (or wire whisk) so heat will
  not curdle the eggs.  Cook over very low heat until thickened.
  
  From: "The Complete Greek Cookbook" by Theresa Karas Yianilos.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hummus Me Tahini (Chick Pea Salad with Tahini)
 Categories: Appetizer, Greek
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Dried chick-peas
    1/4 ts Baking soda
      2 ts Tahini (or more)
    1/3 c  Water
      1    Lemon (juice only)
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2    Garlic cloves
    1/2 ts Ground coriander (optional)
    1/2 ts Ground cumin (optional)
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
           Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Wash the chick-peas, then soak overnight with the baking soda in cold
  water to cover.  The following day, drain and wash the chick-peas,
  then cover with fresh water.  Bring to a boil, then lower the heat
  and simmer until tender, 1-1/2 to 2 hours.  Drain and push through
  sieve or food mill, discarding the coarse fibers remaining in the
  sieve.
  
  Meanwhile, put the tahini in a small bowl and beat it with the 1/3 cup
  water until dissolved, using a whisk or fork.  Beating briskly with
  the whisk, add the tahini mixture, a teaspoonful at a time, to the
  chick-peas, alternating with the lemon juice and olive oil.  When all
  has been added, crush the garlic over the mixture and sprinkle with
  optional spices, salt, pepper, and 1 tablespoon chopped parsley.
  Beat for another minute, then taste for seasonings and chill
  overnight - if possible.  Serve cold, sprinkled with additional
  chopped parsley.  Makes about 2 cups.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hummus Dip
 Categories: Appetizer, Greek
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn Garbanzo beans drained
      2 tb To 3 tb tahini (crushed
           -sesame seeds)
    1/4 c  To 1/2 c lemon juice
      1    Clove garlic
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Salt
           Water
 
  Place drained beans in blender. Add all other ingredients and then add
  enough water to almost cover beans. Blend until smooth. Pour into
  serving dish. Pour very thin layer of olive oil on top and sprinkle
  with parsley. Serve with pita bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sheftalia (Barbequed Sausages)
 Categories: Greek, Meat
      Yield: 50 servings
 
    500 g  Finely ground fatty pork
    500 g  Finely ground veal or lamb
      1 lg Onion; finely chopped
           -or- grated
    1/2 c  Finely chopped parsley
      2 ts Salt
    250 g  Panna (caul fat from pig)
 
  Combine pork with veal or lamb, onion, parsley, salt and a generous
  grinding of black pepper.
  
  Dip panna into a bowl of warm water for a minute or two, remove and
  carefully open out a piece at a time, laying it out flat on work
  surface. Cut with kitchen scissors into pieces about 10 cm (4 inches)
  square.
  
  Take a good tablespoon of meat mixture and shape into a thick sausage
  about 5 cm (2 inches) long.  Place towards one edge of piece of
  panna, fold end and sides over meat and roll up firmly.  Repeat with
  remaining ingredients.
  
  Thread sausages on flat sword-like skewers, leaving space between
  them. Number on each skewer depends on their length.
  
  Cook over glowing charcoal, turning frequently.  Do not place too
  close to heat as sheftalia must cook fairly slowly so that the inside
  is well cooked and the outside nicely browned without being burnt.
  The panna melts during cooking, keeping the meat moist and adding
  flavour. Excessive flaring of fire can be controlled by a sprinkle of
  water on the coals. Serve sheftalia as an appetizer or a main course.
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook, by Tess Mallos Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Preserved Grape Vine Leaves
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Instructions:
 
  Pick leaves early in their growth period, that is early summer, when
  vines are covered with leaves.
  
  Choose leaves of medium light colour, not too young.  If vines have
  been sprayed, wait for period recommended for general harvest by
  manufacturer of insecticide.  When picking, snip off stem.
  
  Wash leaves and stack in piles of 24, with shiny side up.  Roll up
  and tie with string.
  
  Bring 8 cups water to the boil with 1/4 cup salt.  Drop in 4 bundles
  at a time, return to the boil and blanch for 3 minutes, turning rolls
  over to blanch evenly.  Lift out and drain.  Repeat with remaining
  rolls.
  
  Make a brine with 8 cups water boiled with 1 cup rock salt.
  
  Pack rolls upright into warm sterilized jars and pour hot brine over
  leaves.  Remove air bubbles and seal when cold.
  
  Brine is sufficient for 20 bundles of leaves.  Increase accordingly to
  quantity being preserved.
  
                   From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess
  Mallos.
                   ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised String Beans (Fassoulakia Yahni)
 Categories: Greek, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      1 sm Garlic clove; minced
    3/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Tomato paste
    1/2    Fresh tomato
           -- peeled and chopped
      1 lb String beans
           Parsley or mint; chopped
           Salt and pepper
           Water
 
  Saute onion and garlic in olive oil until soft.  Add tomato paste and
  fresh tomato and simmer until sauce is slightly thickened.  Add
  string beans and seasoning and enough water to cover.  Cover and cook
  until beans are tender.  Makes 4-6 servings.
  
  Source: The Art of Greek Cookery, by the Women of St. Paul's Greek
  Orthodox Church Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalamarakia Tursi (Pickled Squid)
 Categories: Greek, Seafood, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 md Squid
      3 tb Olive oil
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
           Few sprigs fresh rosemary
      2 c  White vinegar (approx.)

MMMMM------------------PICKLING SPICES & HERBS-----------------------
      8    Black peppercorns
      2    Garlic cloves
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Sprig fresh rosemary
 
  Wash and clean the squid, separating the outer sacs from the heads and
  tentacles, removing and discarding the translucent cartilage, and
  small sand bag and ink. Rub salt on the outer sacs and rinse them
  inside and out with cold water. Heads and tentacles should be rinsed
  thoroughly. Cut the sacs into 1/2-inch wide rounds. Heat the oil in a
  frying pan and slip in the squid rounds, heads and tentacles. Cover
  and simmer until bright pink and tender (approximately 30 minutes),
  adding salt and pepper to taste, parsley and rosemary during the last
  15 minutes. Half fill a clean quart-sized jar with the squid and all
  the juices remaining in the pan. Add white vinegar almost to the top,
  then the pickling spices and herbs. Seal the jar tightly and shake.
  Marinate at least one day before serving. Keep in the refrigerator.
  
  To serve, remove from marinade and serve cold, within 10 days.
  
  Source: The Food of Greece by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles. Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalamarakia Pilafi (Squid Baked with Rice)
 Categories: Greek, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Medium squid
           Salt
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3    Garlic cloves; sliced
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      2    Tomatoes; peeled & seeded
      3 tb Butter
      1 c  Raw long-grain white rice
           Chopped parsley
      1 tb Chopped fresh rosemary
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  Wash and clean the squid, separating the outer sacs from the heads and
  tentacles, removing and discarding the translucent cartilage, and
  small sand bag and ink. Rub salt on the outer sacs and rinse them
  inside and out with cold water. Rinse head and tentacles thoroughly
  as well. Slice squid into uniform rings, between 1/2 and 1 inch wide.
  Heat the oil in a frying pan and add the squid and garlic and saute
  for 5 minutes. Stir in the wine and sliced tomatoes, cover, and
  simmer until the squid is almost tender (approximately 30 minutes).
  Transfer to a baking dish.
  
  Meanwhile, heat the butter and saute the rice, without browning, until
  transparent, stirring constantly. Add the rice to the squid and
  sprinkle with 1/4 cup chopped parsley, the rosemary, and salt and
  pepper to taste. Add enough hot water to cook the rice, slightly more
  than 2 cups including the tomato sauce. Cover and bake in a moderate
  oven (350 F) for 30 to 40 minutes, or until the rice is tender.
  Sprinkle with additional chopped parsley and serve hot.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles. Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typos by: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oktapodi Maratho Krasato (Octopus and Fennel in Wine)
 Categories: Greek, Seafood, Main dish, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Octopus
      1 md Onion; chopped; *OR*
      5    (scallions; chopped)
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      1 c  Dry red wine
      1 bn Fennel; chopped
      4    Tomatoes (fresh or canned)
           - peeled, seeded & chopped
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
 
  Beat, pound and rub the octopus from 20 to 30 minutes on a rough stone
  surface.  The octopus will feel softer and will secrete a grayish
  liquid after pounding.  Wash thoroughly, then drain and cook in a
  covered pan without adding water until the octopus turns bright
  pink-red and feels tender.  Using a sharp knife, cut into rounds the
  width of a small finger. Heat the oil in a tsikali or any pot, add
  the onion, and cook until translucent and soft.  Add the round
  octopus slices to the onion and pour in the wine, and simmer for 15
  minutes.  Put the fennel and tomatoes on top of the octopus, season
  with salt and pepper to taste, and give the pot a good shake to mix.
  Cover and simmer until the octopus is fork-tender (approximately 45
  to 50 minutes).  Serve warm or cold.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Squid in Wine, Cyprus Style
 Categories: Greek, Seafood, Appetizer
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Small squid
    1/4 c  Olive oil or corn oil
      3    Onions; peeled, sliced
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      2    Cinnamon sticks
      4    Whole cloves
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
 
  Wash and clean the squid, separating the outer sacs from the heads and
  tentacles, removing and discarding the translucent cartilage, and
  small sand bag and ink.  Rub salt on the outer sacs and rinse them
  inside and out with cold water.  Rinse head and tentacles thoroughly.
  
  Heat the oil in a pan, add the squid, including the tentacles, and
  onions, and cook slowly until the onions are translucent.  Pour the
  vinegar and wine over the squid and onions, then add the remaining
  ingredients and enough water to almost cover the squid, if necessary.
  Cook, uncovered, over low heat until the squid are tender and all the
  wine has been absorbed, approximately 1 to 1 1/4 hours.  Remove the
  spices and bay leaf. Cut the squid into bite-sized pieces and serve
  warm or cold.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Stuffed Squid
 Categories: Greek, Seafood
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 lb Squid
           Salt
      6 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion; chopped
    1/3 c  Raw long-grain white rice
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh mint leaves
      2 tb White wine
    1/4 c  Pine nuts
    1/4 c  Black raisins
           Freshly ground pepper
      4    Peeled tomatoes; drained
    1/3 c  White wine
 
  Wash and clean the squid, separating the outer sacs from the heads and
  tentacles, removing and discarding the translucent cartilage, and
  small sand bag and ink.  Rub salt on the outer sacs and rinse them
  inside and out with cold water.  Heads and tentacles should be rinsed
  thoroughly and cooked along with the sacs after you stuff the latter.
  Drain and set aside.
  
  Heat 1/4 cup of the oil in a heavy frying pan, then add the onion and
  cook, without browning, until transparent.  Stir in the rice and
  saute a few minutes, until golden.  Blend in the parsley, mint, 2
  tablespoons wine, pine nuts, and raisins, and season with salt and
  pepper to taste. Add enough water to half cover and cook for a few
  minutes, then stuff the squid sacs with the mixture using a very
  small spoon and allowing enough liquid in each for the rice to cook.
  Seal opening with skewers or toothpicks. Place the stuffed sacs with
  the heads and tentacles in a baking-serving dish.  Sprinkle with salt
  and pepper and set aside.
  
  Meanwhile, combine the tomatoes, 1/3 cup wine, and a little salt and
  pepper in a small saucepan and simmer for 5 minutes.  Pour the sauce
  over the squid and dribble the remaining 2 tablespoons olive oil over
  the top. Bake in a medium-slow oven (300 F) for 1 1/2 hours or until
  the squid and rice are tender and the sauce has thickened.  Serve
  warm or cold.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oktapothi Toursi - Pickled Octopus
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizer, Greek
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Octopus (about 1 kg)
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Vinegar
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Serves: 6-8 Cooking time: 45-60 minutes
  
  To clean octopus, pull of tentacles, remove intestines and ink sac.
  Cut out eyes and beak.  Remove skin and rinse well.  Place head and
  tentacles in a pan over low heat until it turns deep pink and is
  tender (about 45 to 60 minutes).  Drain and when cool enough to
  handle strip off suckers from tentacles if desired.  Cut head and
  tentacles into bite-sized pieces and place in a bowl.  Add garlic,
  olive oil, vinegar, salt if necessary and pepper to taste.  Mix well,
  cover and leave to marinate in refrigerator for 12 hours before
  using.  Stir occasionally.
  
  To serve, lift out of marinade, pile onto a dish, garnish with lemon
  wedges and parsley.  Supply cocktail picks for your guests'
  convenience.
  
                   From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess
  Mallos.
                   ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
                   Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cuttlefish with Spinach
 Categories: Greek, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    750 g  Cuttlefish or squid
    1/3 c  Olive oil
           Water
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    750 g  Spinach
      1 c  Chopped spring onions
    1/2    Lemon (juice only)
 
  Cuttlefish (soupies) as distinct from squid (kalamaria) are preferred
  for this dish, though either may be used.  Cleaning cuttlefish can be
  a rather messy business as these marine molluscs have an ink sac from
  which the pigment sepia is obtained.  The sac ruptures easily and is
  usually ruptured by the time you purchase them, so don't be put off
  by their colour - the ink rinses off easily.
  
  Rinse cuttlefish or squid and remove head, attached tentacles and
  intestines; discard intestines.  Pull out cuttle bone or fine
  transparent bone if squid is being prepared.  Pull off fine skin and
  rinse.  Remove eyes and beak from head, leave head attached to
  tentacles and pull or rub off skin from tentacles, or as much skin as
  will easily come off.
  
  Slice hood or body into strips.  If squid are large, slice head and
  tentacles - cuttlefish tentacles are usually small and these are left
  intact.  Place prepared cuttlefish or squid in pan and set on medium
  heat. Cover and cook for 15 minutes in its own juice.  Add half the
  oil, just enough water to cover, and salt and pepper to taste, cover
  and simmer gently for 45 minutes or until tender.
  
  Meanwhile trim spinach and wash thoroughly.  Drain well and chop
  leaves and stalks coarsely.
  
  Heat remaining oil in a separate pan and gently fry spring onion until
  soft, add spinach and stir over heat until it wilts.  Add spinach
  mixture to cuttlefish or squid with lemon juice and adjust seasonings
  with salt and pepper.  Cover and simmer for further 10-15 minutes.
  Serve hot.
  
                  From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess
  Mallos.
                  ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
                  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dolmades Yialandzi (Stuffed Grapevine Leaves)
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 60 servings
 
    3/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 sm Onion; chopped
      8    Scallions; chopped fine
      2 lg Garlic cloves; chopped
      1 c  Raw long-grain rice
      1 bn Fresh dill; chopped
    1/2 bn Fresh parsley; chopped
  1 1/2    Lemons (or more), juice only
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      1 c  Hot water
      1 lb Jar grapevine leaves
 
  Heat the 1/2 cup oil in a skillet.  Add the onion and scallions and
  saute for about 5 minutes, until soft and transparent.  Add the
  garlic and cook for a few minutes, then add the rice, dill, parsley,
  lemon juice, salt, pepper, and remaining 1/4 cup olive oil.  Stir
  well, then add the hot water.  Cover and simmer about 5 minutes.
  Remove from the heat and cool.
  
  Meanwhile, carefully remove the grapevine leaves from the jar,
  leaving the brine in the jar.  Wash grapevine leaves thoroughly and
  drain, then with a sharp knife cut the heavy stems from the leaves.
  (If using fresh grapevine leaves use the same procedure, parboiling
  leaves for 5 minutes when not tender, then drain.)  Line an enameled
  pan with a few heavy grapevine leaves and set aside.  To stuff a
  grapevine leaf, put it on your working surface rough side up and stem
  end near you, and place a teaspoonful of the rice mixture near the
  stem end.  Using both hands, fold the part of the leaf near you up
  and over the filling.  Then fold the right side of the leaf over the
  filling, then the left side, and roll tightly and back away from you
  and toward the pointed end of leaf.  Place the "dolma", seam side
  down, in the prepared pan.   Continue stuffing grapevine leaves until
  the mixture has been used.  (If any grapevine leaves remain, replace
  in the reserved brine for future use.)  Place an inverted plate on
  the dolmades, then add enough water to cover the dolmades (about 1 to
  1-1/2 cups). Bring to a boil, then cover the pan, lower the heat, and
  simmer as slowly as possible for 1-1/4 hours, then taste one to see
  if the rice is tender, and continue cooking slowly if necessary.
  Cool, then chill. Serve cold, as an appetizer or as an entree.
  
  Note:  An important variation, particularly in Macedonia and Thrace:
  add a few tablespoons of raisins and pine nuts to the filling when
  adding the rice.  Also, you may vary the size of dolmades as you wish
  by adding 1-1/2 teaspoons of the filling.  However, be consistent to
  allow them to cook at the same rate.  They may be stored in the
  refrigerator for a week or so.
  
  Source: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Potatoes
 Categories: Vegetable, Greek
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes, cubed
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
  1 1/2 ts Dried oregano
      2    Gralic cloves, pressed
      3 c  Hot water
           Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Toss potatoes with lemon juice, oils, spices & garlic in a deep flat
  pan. Add water.  Bake uncovered for 1 1/2 hours at 475F.  Stir every
  20 minutes. Add more water if necessary.  Allow the potatoes to
  evaporate the water during the last 20 minutes till only the oil is
  left.  Garnish with parsley & serve.
  
  "New Recipes From Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boned Oysters
 Categories: Greek, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12    Oysters
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Oil
           Salt and pepper; to taste
 
  Use only the large Asiatic oysters caught in the Indian Ocean, Black
  Sea, or the Persian and Arabian gulfs.
  
  Use the delicious white meat only.  Discard the round white bone
  sometimes discovered inside the shell -- or give it to some Persian.
  They seem to prefer these bones to gold; they call them "pearls".
     *******************************************************************
  *
  
  Drain oysters.  Roll in flour.  Heat oil until hot in a large frying
  pan. Fry oysters on medium-high heat for 5 minutes turning over once.
  Sprinkle with seasonings and serve.
  
  Source: Chares of Mytilene, Lesbos (an historian of the third
  century) The Complete Greek Cookbook, by Theresa Karas Yianilos Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snails, Cretan Style, W/ Vinegar or Tomatoes
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------TO PREPARE SNAILS--------------------------
           Wheat, flour and/or thyme
           Salt

MMMMM----------------FOR FIRST RECIPE, TO SERVE 1---------------------
      1 lb Snails
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar

MMMMM----------------FOR SECOND RECIPE, SERVING 1---------------------
      1 lb Snails
    1/2 c  Olive oil
           Salt
      1    Onion; grated
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1 lb Peeled, chopped tomatoes
 
  The Greek gift for having a word for it applies richly to snails,
  usually called "salingaria" on the mainland, but "hohli" on Crete and
  "karaoli" on Cyprus.  Hohli are a favorite Cretan food, and the
  delicious cooking methods explain why.  Snails are scrupulously
  avoided except in summer, when they are considered safe to eat.
  Since snails absorb the odors and taste of foods on which they feed,
  Cretans catch them after a rainfall, put them in a covered container,
  and feed them for several days on wheat, flour, and perhaps some
  thyme.  Then the real fun begins.  The amounts of the other
  ingredients in this recipe are based on a pound of snails.  One pound
  of snails serves 1 or 2.
      First be sure all the snails are alive, then wash them thoroughly
  in cold water and place in their shells in a container large enough
  to hold them.  Pour hot water over them to cover and bring to a boil.
  Add a teaspoon of salt for each quart of water and continue to boil
  for 20 minutes, skimming off foam.  Drain the snails, then wash in
  cold water and drain again.  In a deep, heavy pan, heat olive oil
  almost to the boiling point, using 1/2 cup olive oil per pound of
  snails.  Add the snails and fry for 10 minutes, turning carefully
  with tongs to avoid spattering oil. Pour in 1/4 cup red wine vinegar
  for each pound of snails.  Remove from heat and stir constantly for a
  few minutes.  Remove the snails to individual plates and serve hot
  with a little of the remaining sauce, and some bread and wine, as an
  appetizer or first course.
  
  SNAILS BRAISED WITH TOMATOES Prepare the snails for cooking as
  directed above.  In a deep, heavy pan, heat 1/2 cup olive oil per
  pound of snails, add some salt for seasoning and then the snails.
  Cover, lower the heat, and cook for 10 minutes, turning once. Add a
  grated onion and 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley per pound of snails.
  Stir over medium heat for a few minutes, then add a pound of peeled,
  chopped tomatoes for each pound of snails. Cover and simmer for 30
  minutes, or until the tomatoes are tender. Serve with fried potatoes
  and baby zucchini salad.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles, Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Souvlaki
 Categories: Greek, Lamb
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Leg of lamb; boned, cubed*
      5    Baby lamb sweetbreads, opt.*
      4    Baby lamb kidneys,  opt. *
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           Lemon's juice
    1/4 c  Wine
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Rosemary
      1    Bay leaf; crushed
      2    Garlic cloves; crushed
           Freshly ground black pepper
      8    Bay leaves; cut
           Firm tomatoes (opt); 1/4'd
           Green peppers (opt); cubed
           Salt
           Oregano and lemon quarters
 
  *Note: Lamb meat(s) should be cut into cubes the size of walnuts.
  Place the lamb, sweetbreads, and kidney cubes in a large non-aluminum
  bowl. Make a marinade of the oil, lemon juice, wine, herbs, garlic,
  and pepper and pour over the meat.  Marinate in the refrigerator,
  preferably overnight, or for at least 3 hours.  Thread the meat on
  long skewers alternating the bay leaves with the tomatoes and
  peppers, if desired. Grill over hot coals or broil 6 inches from the
  heat, brushing with the remaining marinade and turning frequently.
  Season with salt and pepper, then remove the meat from the skewers to
  a warm platter and crush oregano over the top. Garnish with lemon
  quarters and serve hot. From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras
  Chantiles.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mageritsa (Easter Lamb Soup)
 Categories: Greek, Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Intestines, heart, lungs,
           & liver of 1 lamb.
           1 lamb's feet and tripe, opt
      1    Lamb's head (optional)
           Salt
      2    Lemons (juice only)
      1 sm Bunch scallions; chopped
    2/3 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh dill
    1/4 c  Chopped celery leaves
      6 tb Raw long-grain white rice
    1/2 ts Aniseed (optional)
           Freshly ground pepper
      3    Whole eggs
 
  Note: If using the lamb's head, wash it, then soak it in cold water
  for 3 hours. Drain. Cut the head in half, using a sharp knife, and
  tie with a clean string.
  
  If using the lamb's feet and tripe, prepare as follows: If tripe is
  not parially cooked, cut open with a sharp knife and clean the inside
  thoroughly under running water. Put in a pan with cold salted water to
  cover and soak for 30 minutes, then drain and wash with cold water.
  Cut into small pieces and put in a large soup pot with the lamb's
  feet. cover with cold water, and simmer until tender, adding salt to
  taste during the last minutes of cooking. Cube the tripe, remove the
  meat of the feet from the bones, and add to the mageritsa at the same
  time as the cut-up intestines, adjusting the liquid by adding more
  water.
  
  Clean the intestines thoroughly by turning them inside out, using a
  long skewer or stick (this turning will be quicker if the intestines
  are first cut into 2-foot lengths), then wash under cold running
  water until clean. Rub the intestines with salt and the juice of 1/2
  lemon, rinse again in cold water and drain. Braid the intestines or
  tie the ends together with clean string. Put in a large soup pot with
  the lamb's head, if using, and cove with cold water. Bring to a boil,
  then lower the heat, skim, and simmer for 30 minutes. Remove the
  intestines, drain them, and cut into 1/4 inch pieces with the
  scissors and set aside to add to the soup later. (Use the remaining
  portion of the head for another dish.)
  
  Bring the soup stock to a boil and add the scallions, parsley, dill,
  and celery leaves. Cut the heart, lungs, and liver into small
  bite-sized cubes, and add them to the soup, and simmer for 15
  minutes. Add the rice, cut-up intestines, aniseed, salt and pepper to
  taste and continue simmering until the rice is tender, approximately
  15 minutes, adding more water as needed and the brains during the
  last few minutes of cooking.
  
  Half an hour before serving, bring the soup to a boil, then remove
  from the heat and prepare the avgolemono: Beat the eggs for 2
  minutes. Continue to beat, gradually add the remaining lemon juice.
  Then 1 to 2 cups of the hot soup by droplets, beating steadily, until
  all has been added. Add the avgolemono to the soup.  Stir over
  minimum heat until thickened.  Serve warm but avoid boiling the soup
  after adding the avgolemono.
  
  A richer Mageritsa can be made by sauteing the scallions in 3
  tablespoons butter or oil before adding to the soup.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arni Exohiko ("Surprise" Lamb, Country Style )
 Categories: Greek, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      8    Loin lamb chops
     18    Sheets commercial phyllo
      6 tb Butter; hot and melted
      2 c  Peas; cooked and drained
     16    Potato balls; parboiled
     16    Cherry tomatoes; peeled
    1/2 lb Kasseri cheese; in 8 pieces
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
    3/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1 pn Dried oregano
 
  *Note: 3/4-inch slices leg of lamb may be used instead of lamb chops.
  
  In a heavy skillet, heat the oil or butter and fry the lamb over high
  heat, turning frequently.  Lower the heat and simmer for 15 minutes,
  then remove from the heat.  Meanwhile, unroll the filo sheets and
  cover with a damp towel.  In a small pan over low heat, have the
  butter hot without letting it brown. Remove two sheets of filo, brush
  with hot butter over the first, then cover with the second sheet and
  brush it with butter.  In the center of the buttered filo place 1
  lamb chop, 2 tablspoons peas, 2 potato balls, 2 cherry tomatoes, and
  a slice of kasseri.  Sprinkle with salt and pepper, a heaping
  tablespoon of parsley, and a pinch of oregano. Fold the filo around
  the lamb and vegetables like a sealed parcel.  Place, seam side down,
  on a buttered baking pan (approximately 11 x 15 x 3 inches) and set
  aside while you repeat the procedure with the remaining ingredients
  to make 8 "parcels".  Brush hot butter on the tops, then bake in a
  moderate oven (350 F) for 45 to 50 minutes or until golden in color.
  Remove from the oven and arrange on a warm platter or on individual
  dishes. Serve warm, with a fresh-cooked or raw vegetable salad.
  
  Note: The vegetables and herbs may be varied.  Substitute green beans
  or lima beans for peas, use thyme or basil instead of oregano.  Arni
  Exohiko is frequently prepared using buttered waxed paper, parchment
  paper or aluminum foil rather than with filo.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arni Fricasse (Lamb Fricasse)
 Categories: Greek, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      2 tb Butter
      1 kg Lean boneless lamb, cubed
      1 c  Hot water
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 ts Chopped dill or fennel, opt.
           Salt and pepper
           Prepared vegetable *see note

MMMMM--------------------EGG AND LEMON SAUCE-------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Stock
      1 tb Cornflour
      3    Eggs; separated
      1    Lemon (juice only)
           Salt
           Freshly ground white pepper
 
  Serves: 4-6 Cooking time: 1 3/4 to 2 hours
  
  In a heavy-based saucepan or Dutch oven gently fry onion in butter
  until transparent.  Increase heat and add cubed lamb.  Cook, stirring
  constantly, until meat juices evaporate.  Meat should not brown.
  Reduce heat and add hot water, herbs and salt and pepper to taste.
  Cover and simmer gently for 1 to 1 1/2 hours.  Add prepared vegetable
  and continue to cook until lambe and vegetables are tender.
  Carefully drain liquid from pan into a measuring jug and make up to 1
  1/2 cups with hot water or stock. Keep pan contents hot.
  
  Make Egg and Lemon Sauce:  Bring stock to the boil.  Mix cornflour to
  a paste with a little cold water and add to stock, stirring until
  thickened and bubbling.  Let it boil for 1 minute.  In a bowl, beat
  egg whites until stiff, add egg yolks and continue beating until
  light and fluffy.  Add lemon juice gradually, beating constantly.
  Gradually pour in boiling, thickened stock, beating constantly.
  Return sauce to pan and cook, stirring constantly, over low heat for
  1 to 2 minutes to cook the egg.  Do not allow sauce to boil.  Remove
  from heat and continue to stir for 1 minute.  Season to taste.
  
  Pour Egg and Lemon Sauce over lamb and vegetable, cover and leave at
  the side of the stove for 5 minutes.  Arrange lamb and vegetable on a
  serving dish and sprinkle with chopped herb.  Serve immediately with
  crusty bread and a chilled white wine.
  
  *Note:  Use any one of the following for the vegetable:
  
  8-12 small globe artichoke hearts.  Add to meat about 1 hour and cook
  for further 30-45 minutes.
  
  500 g (1 lb) celery stalks cut into 8 cm (3 inch) lengths and
  blanched in boiling, salted water for 5 minutes.  Drain, add to meat
  after 1 hour and cook for further 45 minutes.  Pork can be used
  instead of lamb with this vegetable.
  
  4 heads endive, washed well and trimmed of any coarse leaves.  Slit
  heads in half lengthways and blanch in boiling salted water for 2
  minutes. Drain, add to meat after 1 1/2 hours and cook for further 15
  minutes.
  
  4 small firm heads lettuce, washed well and quartered.  Place in a
  colander and scald with boiling water.  Add after 1 1/2 hours and
  cook for further 15 minutes.
  
                  From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess
  Mallos.
                  ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Pie, Ioannina Style
 Categories: Greek, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 md Onion; chopped
  1 1/2 lb Lean lamb (pref.leg), ground
      1 ts Ground cinnamon (or more)
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      1 c  Tomato sauce or puree
           - diluted w/ water & warmed
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      5 sl Toast (thin)
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      3    Eggs; lightly beaten
    3/4 c  Grated mizithra & kefalotyri
     12    Commercial filo sheets
      6 tb Butter; melted
 
  In a frying pan, heat the 2 tablespoons butter and cook the onion
  until translucent. Add the lamb and cook gently, while mashing and
  stirring with a fork until the raw color disappears. Season the meat
  with cinnamon, salt, pepper, then stir in the tomato sauce and
  parsley. Cover the pan and simmer for 20 minutes. (This much can be
  cooked a day in advance and stored in the refrigerator.) Meanwhile,
  soak the toast slices in the milk to make a soft mixture, and add to
  the meat along with the eggs and cheese. Mix the filling with a
  wooden spoon, taste, and add more cinnamon if you like.
  
  Butter the bottom and sides of a 9 x 12 x 3 inch baking pan. Spread 6
  filo sheets, brushing melted butter in between the sheets, making
  sure the pasry fits the sides and bottom of the pan. Pour in the
  filling, spreading evenly with a spatula. Cover with the remaining 6
  filo sheets, brushing with butter as before. Flute the edges with two
  fingers or a fork and brush the top with butter. Using a sharp knife,
  score the top 3 filo sheets into square or diamond shapes. Bake for
  40 to 50 minutes in a moderately slow oven (325 F), raising the
  temperature to 350 F during the last 10 minutes. Remove from the oven
  and let stand on a rack for 15 minutes. Cut into diamonds or squares
  and serve warm.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles. Avenel
  Books, New York.
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Lamb with Potatoes (Arni Psito Me Patates)
 Categories: Greek, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Leg of young spring lamb
      3    Garlic cloves
           Salt and pepper
      4 tb Butter; melted
      1    Lemon; juiced
     20 sm Potatoes; peeled
           Salt
      2 tb Tomato paste
      2 c  -Hot water
 
  Wash leg of lamb.  Slit with sharp knife in various places on both
  sides of lamb.  Slice garlic thinly and insert the slices in slits
  made in lamb. Season with salt and pepper and brush with melted
  butter.  Squeeze lemon juice over lamb and place in roasting pan, fat
  side up.  Roast at 450 F for 1/2 hour.
  
  While lamb is browning, sprinkle potatoes with salt, rub with tomato
  paste, and let stand for a few minutes.  Add potatoes to the baking
  pan with the water and lower oven temperature to 350 F.  Turn and
  baste the potatoes occasionally during the roasting period.  When
  lamb is done, remove to hot serving platter and keep warm. Increase
  oven temperature to 425 F and brown potatoes for 20 minutes longer.
  
  Source: The Art of Greek Cookery by the Women of St. Pauls Greek
  Orthodox Church
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Vegetable Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Zucchini, sliced
      1 md Eggplant, sliced & peeled
      2 md Onions, sliced
    1/2 lb Small okra, stemmed
      1 c  Green beans, halved
      1 lg Potato, thinly sliced
      4 md Tomatoes, peeled & sliced
           Olive oil
      2 tb Fresh basil leaves
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
           Salt & pepper
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  In a deep casserole make a layer of each
  vegetable. Dribble a little oil over each layer & sprinkle lightly
  with garlic & basil, salt & pepper.  Layer in any order but have
  potatoes in the middle & end with tomatoes.
  
  Bake covered for 1 1/2 hours basting once or twice.  If vegetables
  are too watery, bake uncovered for the last 10 minutes.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kasseri, Tomato and Basil Cresents (Kasseropites)
 Categories: Appetizer, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  -Warm water
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
      3 c  All-purpose flour; (sifted)
      1 lb Kasseri cheese
           -- coarsely grated
      2 lg Tomatoes; chopped
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil
           Paprika
 
  Blend water, oil, vinegar, egg and salt in large bowl.  Gradually
  stir in enough flour so dough pulls away from sides of bowl.  Turn
  dough out onto lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and
  elastic, about 10 minutes.  Shape dough into round.  Grease bowl.
  Add dough, turning to coat surface.  Cover with damp towel and let
  stand in warm draft-free area 30 minutes.
  
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Grease baking sheets.  Combine cheese,
  tomatoes and basil in bowl. Divide dough into 8 pieces.  Shape each
  into smooth round. Roll each out on lightly floured surface to
  thickness of 1/4 to 1/8 inch. Spoon some of cheese mixture down
  center of each round.  Fold one side over filling; press edges to
  seal.  Arrange cresents on prepared sheets. Sprinkle with paprika.
  Bake until cheese has melted and pastry is golden brown, about 40
  minutes.  Serve hot.
  
  Source: Sofi Lazarides (Bon Appetit, 1987) Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Eyed Pea Salad
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer, Greek
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Black eyed peas
      3 ts Ground coriander
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
      3 tb Fresh ginger, grated
    1/2    Red pepper, chopped OR
           -- cayenne to taste
           Olive oil
           Wine vinegar
           Salt
           Hungarian paprika
 
  Soak peas.  Put in a pot with water to cover, plus 1 inch & add
  coriander, garlic, ginger & red pepper.  Cook for a little over 1
  hour or until still a little chewy.
  
  While the peas are cooking, prepare a dressing by mixing together oil,
  vinegar, salt & parika.  Use 2:1 oil-vinegar ratio & add seasonings
  according to taste.  Add to peas as soon as you remove them from the
  heat. Allow to cool to room temperature & adjust seasoning then serve.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Pilaf with Peas
 Categories: Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Rice
      3 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Bay leaves
      1 sm Piece cinnamon
      1 ts Salt
      1 pn Freshly ground black pepper
      1 c  Peas
      4 c  Water or stock
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
           Tomato slices
           Cucumber slices
 
  Wash rice & leave to soak for half an hour.  Allow to drain.  Heat
  oil in a pot & fry onion till it becomes translucent.  Add bay
  leaves, cinnamon, salt, pepper & rice.  Cook until the rice grains
  become opaque, stirring occasionally.  Add peas & stir together until
  the peas are well coated in oil.  Add 4 c water or stock.  Bring to a
  boil, cover & simmer over a low heat until the rice is tender (15 to
  20 minutes).  Serve with the garnish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Tomato Sauce with Olive Oil
 Categories: Greek, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      2 lb Fresh tomatoes*
      1 ts Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Red wine
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      1    Stick cinnamon (optional)
      2    Sprigs parsley; chopped
      1    Sprig fresh basil; chopped
 
  *Note: Tomatoes should be peeled and chopped if fresh, or you may
  substitute 1 two-and-one-half pound can plum tomatoes, chopped.
  
  Heat the oil in a heavy saucepan, stir in the onions, and cook gently
  until transparent.  Add the garlic, tomatoes, sugar, wine, salt and
  pepper, and cinnamon, if desired.  Taste for seasoning, then allow
  the sauce to simmer gently for 30 minutes.  Remove the cinnamon stick
  before serving hot.
  
  NOTE:  For a thicker sauce, add 1/4 cup tomato paste diluted with 1/4
  cup water when adding the tomatoes.  For a smoother consistency, the
  sauce may be strained and seeds discarded just before the parsley and
  basil are added.
  
  ~-From the Kowboy Kitchen of Wesley Pitts
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Tsoureki ( Easter Bread)
 Categories: Greek, Bread, Holiday
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Sweet butter
      1 pk Active dry yeast
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2    Eggs; beaten
      5 tb Orange juice
      1 tb Grated orange rind
  5 1/2 c  Sifted flour
           Butter; melted
           Red-dyed, hard-boiled eggs
    1/4 c  Slivered almonds
      2 tb Granulated sugar
 
  In a small saucepan, combine the milk and butter over medium heat and
  scald.  Stir until the butter melts, then pour into a mixing bowl.
  When lukewarm, sprinkle in the yeast, and with fingers or a heavy
  spoon gradually stir in the 1/2 cup sugar until it dissolves.  Then
  add the salt, eggs 3 tablespoons of the orange juice, and the orange
  rind, stirring continuously, and gradually add half the flour until
  the mixture begins to bubble.  Continue adding flour gradually by
  hand; the dough will be sticky, but should not be stiff.  Flour your
  fingers lightly and knead for 15 minutes.  Place the dough in a large
  buttered bowl, brush the dough with melted butter, cover, and place
  in a warm area to rise until doubled in bulk (approximately 2 to 3
  hours).
     Punch the dough down and divide into 2 parts.  Divide each half
  into 3 parts and roll each into a long rope about 10" x 2".  Braid
  the three ropes together; pinch to seal the ends if leaving long, or
  join together to form a long round loaf (see note below).  Repeat
  with the other half of the dough to make a second tsoureki.  Place in
  large baking pans or on a cookie sheet, cover, and let rise until
  doubled in bulk (approx. 1 1/2 hours).
     Meanwhile, prepare the glaze by mixing the remaining orange juice,
  remaining sugar, and the almonds in a small bowl.  Bake the tsourekia
  in a 375 degree oven for 20 minutes.  Remove from the oven and with a
  pastry brush glaze the tops and sides of loaves.  Return to the oven
  and bake for another 15 to 20 minutes until the color is a rich and
  shiny chestnut.
     Note:  If using the Easter eggs, tuck them into the center when you
  shape the loaves, leave until loaves have doubled and bake them with
  the loaf.  After baking, though lovely, the eggs will be inedible.
  Also in some provinces, the tsoureki is formed with a large braid and
  a smaller one over it, making a much larger loaf requiring a longer
  baking time.
  
  From "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles. Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vasilopita ( New Year Bread)
 Categories: Greek, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Active dry yeast
    3/4 c  Milk; lukewarm
      3    Eggs; beaten
  1 1/2 ts Grated orange rind
    3/4 c  Caster sugar
  4 1/2 c  Plain flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground masticha
    1/2 c  Butter; melted
      1    Egg; for glazing
           Blanched split almonds
 
  New Year Bread is traditionally cut at midnight on New Year's Eve.
  After baking, a coin is inserted through a slit in the base.  The
  person who finds the coin will have luck in the New Year.  Long ago
  the coin used to be a gold one, then later a silver coin was used.
  These could be incorporated into the dough before baking.  Nowadays
  because of the nickel content of coins it is undesirable to bake a
  coin in the cake.
  
  Dissolve yeast in 1/4 cup of the milk.  Add remainder of milk, eggs,
  orange rind and sugar.  Sift 3 cups flour, salt and spice into a warm
  bowl and make a well in the centre.  Pour in yeast mixture and stir
  to blend in flour, gradually adding warm melted butter.  Mix dough
  with hands until it comes away from sides.  Turn on to a floured
  surface and knead until smooth and elastic, adding remaining flour as
  required.  Knead for 10 minutes. Place ball of dough in a clean bowl
  brushed with melted butter. Turn dough over to coat top with butter
  and cover bowl with a cloth or plastic wrap. Leav to prove (rise) in
  a warm place until doubled in bulk. Punch down and turn on to lightly
  floured surface.  Knead lightly and shape into a round loaf.  Place
  on a large greased baking sheet or in a greased 25 cm (10 inch) deep
  cake tin.  Cover and let rise in a warm place until doubled - about 1
  1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  Glaze with well-beaten egg and arrange blanched almonds in numbers to
  denote the New Year, pressing in lightly.  Bake in a moderately hot
  oven for 45 minutes until golden brown and cooked when tested.  If
  bread browns too quickly place a piece of greased brown paper on top.
  Cool on a wire rack.
  
  From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess Mallos
        ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
        Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Island of Sifnos Honey Bread.
 Categories: Bread, Greek
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Ricotta cheese, unsalted
           -OR- unsalted Mizithra
      2 tb Butter
      1 pn Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
     10    Eggs
      3 c  Honey (try Sifnos honey)
      1 c  Sugar
      4 ts Ground cinnamon
      3 c  Flour
 
  Mix the flour with necessary warm water to make dough like bread. Add
  the butter, salt, and baking powder. Knead and put aside.
  
  Place in a bowl the ricotta cheese and the sugar and mix by hand. Add
  the honey and a handful of flour. Break and add the eggs and half the
  cinnamon, and mix well.
  
  Butter a pan and with a rolling pin roll out the dough to the size of
  round pan letting the dough over the edges. Spread the mixture over
  the dough and bake in 350 degree preheated oven for about 30 minutes.
  When ready sprinkle the rest of the cinnamon. Plan the amount of
  dough so the whole bread will be about 2 inches in height. Cut in
  diamond sections.
  
  Source: TSELEMENTES Translated and posted by: George Righos
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalamarakia Me Krassi (Squid in Red Wine)
 Categories: Greek
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Squid
      2 tb Olive Oil
    3/4 c  Dry Red Wine
    1/2 ts Salt, Pepper, Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Parsley, Chopped
 
  Clean squid, discard tenacles, wash bodies and drain. Place squid in a
  heavy saucepan with olive oil, wine, salt, pepper and sugar. Bring to
  a boil, reduce heat and simmer for an hour. Remove from heat, cool,
  sprinkle with parsley and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Back To Basics
 Categories: Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 ea Basic kitchen hints
 
     Room temperature is what most of your ingredients should be at
  before you use them.  This can help considerably when you're trying
  to beat egg whites, or make a cake or bake bread.
  
     Milks and other liquids added to batters, soups or sauces should be
  brought to room temperature before you begin the recipe, or they can
  be heated briefly at a low setting in the microwave or in a pan of
  warm water. (Heating them directly takes longer and may scorch them.)
  
     Meats that are at room temperature cook faster and some meats can
  be more tender if the fat has had time to de-solidify.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tips for Perfect Biscuits
 Categories: Information, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 ea Tips for perfect biscuits
 
     Use your fingertips to knead dough.
  
     Don't overwork dough.
  
     Use shortening or butter for best texture.
  
     Make certain baking powder is fresh.
  
     Don't rush baking: Allow biscuits to brown nicely.
  
     Contrary to popular belief, brush biscuits with melted butter AFTER
  baking--not before.
  
     Hint:  To save on calories and fat, spray tops of biscuits with
  food release spray instead of brushing with butter--no one will ever
  know the difference!! (Except the scales).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Roaster
 Categories: Information, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Homemade garlic roaster
 
     Making roasted garlic is simple and easy, even without one of
  those "in" garlic roasters!
  
     Peel slightly, and cut the whole head of garlic in half
  horizontally. Put both halves cut side up in a baking dish.  Add
  about 1/4 c. chicken stock, if you're so inclined.  Drizzle both
  halves with olive oil, and sprinkle with rosemary, if you like.
  Cover with foil.
  
     Bake at 350 F. for 45 min., or until garlic is soft.  Use a knife
  or spoon to dig out the now-soft cloves of garlic, and smear on
  toasted French rounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Traditional Buttermilk Biscuits
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  A.P. flour, sifted
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Soda
      1 c  Buttermilk
      4 tb Shortening
 
     Sift flour, salt and soda together in a medium mixing bowl.  Mix in
  shortening with the tips of the fingers; add buttermilk and gently
  knead into a soft ball of dough.  Lift dough onto a well floured
  board, knead just until smooth and firm enough to handle.  Roll or
  pat out to 1/2-inch thickness, and cut with floured cutter, or with
  knife or the rim of smooth drinking glass.
  
     Place biscuits on a greased cookie sheet, and bake in a pre-heated
  400 F. oven for 10 min., until well browned.
  
     Hint:  For biscuit cutters you may also use empty cans with holes
  punched in bottoms to release air.  #303 cans are perfect for large
  biscuits, and tomato sauce cans (8 oz. size) are just right for small
  ones.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baking Powder Drop Biscuits
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  A. P. flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Soda
      4 tb Shortening
      1 c  Buttermilk
 
     Sift flour with soda, salt and baking powder.  Mix in the
  shortening with fingertips.  Add buttermilk and stir.  Mix all into a
  soft dough.
  
     Using a spoon, drop pieces of the dough about the size of a walnut
  onto a greased baking sheet.  Leave 2 inches between each.
  
     Bake in a preheated 400 F. oven for 10 min., or until browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Short Biscuits for Shortbread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 8 biscuits
 
  2 1/2 c  A.P. flour-more if needed
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Soda
      2 tb Sugar
      1 c  Buttermilk
      6 tb Shortening
 
     Sift flour, salt and soda and sugar together in med. mixing bowl.
  Mix in shortening with tips of fingers; add buttemilk and gently
  knead into a semi-stiff ball of dough.  (Note:  Add more flour if
  needed.)
  
     Lift dough onto well-floured work surface, knead JUST UNTIL SMOOTH
  and firm enough to handle.  Roll or pat (preferred) to 1/2" thick,
  and cut with floured cutter, or with knife, or rim of drinking glass.
  
     Place biscuits on greased cookie sheet, and bake in preheated 400
  F. oven for 10 to 15 min., or until brown.
  
     Yield: 8 large or 12 small biscuits.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Mouse Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Dessert, Pumpkin
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 pk Cream cheese (10 oz) soften
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Brn. sugar, packed
      2    Eggs
      1 ea 16 oz. cn. Pumpkin
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Milk or light cream
      1 tb Rum
      1 ts Grnd. cinnamon
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Ginger crust
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Rum, or more to taste
           Orange peel curls (opt.)

MMMMM------------------------GINGER CRUST-----------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      6 tb Butter, melted
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Ginger
 
     FILLING:  Combine cream cheese, sugar and brown sugar in lge.
  mixing bowl; beat with elec. mixer on high speed untill light &
  fluffy.  Add eggs all at once; beat on low till just combined. DO NOT
  OVERBEAT.
  
     Gently stir in pumpkin, milk, cream, rum, cinnamon, vanilla,
  ginger, allspice, orange peel and lemon juice.
  
     Place pie plate with ginger crust on a baking sheet on the oven
  rack. Slowly pour pumpkin mixture into ginger crust.  Cover the edge
  of pie with foil.  Bake in 375 F. over for 25 min.  Remove flil.
  Bake for 25 to 30 min. more or until knife inserted near center comes
  out clean.  Cool pie completely on wire rack.  Cover and chill to
  store.
  
     Before serving, in chilled med. mixing bowl, combine whipping
  cream, 2 tbs. sugar and 2 to 3 ts. rum (as desired).  Beat with elec.
  mixer on low speed 'till soft peaks form.  Do not overbeat.  Cut pie
  into wedges.  Top each serving with dollop of whipped cream; garnish
  with orange peel curl, if desired.
  
     GINGER CRUST:  Combine graham cracker crumbs, melted butter, sugar,
  cinnamon and ground ginger in pie plate.  Toss with fork untill well
  mixed. Press onto bottom and sides of 10" pie plate with 1/4 c size
  measuring cup (hint from Heloise--much easier than using tablespoon
  or hands. Bake in 375 F. oven for 4 to 5 min., or just until edge
  starts to brown. Cool before filling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Self-Rising Flour-Substitution
 Categories: Misc/food
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------SELF-RISING FLOUR--------------------------
      1 c  A.P. flour
  1 1/2 ts Leavining/baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
 
     Self-rising flour may ONLY BE USED in place of all purpose flour
  only if recipe you are making calls for salt and baking powder.  When
  using self-rising flour in place of all purpose (A.P.) flour omit
  salt and leavening as indicated in amounts shown above.
  
     One problem with self-rising flour:  you can never be sure of the
  efficacy of its built-in leavener (baking powder).  Long or improper
  storage will weaken its leavening power and may affect the final
  produce adversely.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Potato and Cauliflower Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 c  Cauliflower pcs.
      1 lg Red potato, quartered
           Salt
      1 tb Butter
      1 sm Onion, diced
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 ts Curry powder
    3/4 c  Half & half, or milk
  1 1/4 c  Chicken broth
           Freshly ground white pepper
 
     Combine cauliflower and potato in medium pan with salted water to
  cover. Cover and cook 5 minutes.
  
     Remove 1 c. cauliflower and set aside.  Cook remaining cauliflower
  and potato until very tender.  Drain.  Peel potato.  Set vegs. aside.
  
     Melt butter in same pan.  Add onion and cook over med. heat until
  tender, abt. 5 min.  Add ginger and curry pwdr. and cook 30 sec.
  
     Place 2 cups well-cooked cauliflower, potato, onions with any
  liquid from pan and half & half in blender jar.  Puree.  If mixture
  is too thick, add some chick. broth.
  
     Return to pan.  Add reserved 1 c. cauliflower.  Add remaining
  chick. broth and heat through over low heat.  DO NOT BOIL.  Season to
  taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
  
     Yield:  2 generous main-dish servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asiago/cheddar Cheese Bread
 Categories: Bread, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shredded Asiago cheese
    1/2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
    1/4 c  Minced onion (or chives)
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
           Salt, freshly grnd. white>>
           Pepper to taste
      1    Chunk French bread, sliced>>
           In half, lengthwise.
 
     Combine cheeses, chives, egg and hot pepper sauce in bowl.  Season
  to taste with salt and pepper.
  
     Arrange bread halves on baking sheet.  Carefully top each slice
  with halt the cheese mixture.
  
     Bake at 350 F. until cheese is melted and bread is crusty, 10 to
  12 min. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boxty (Traditional Irish Dish)
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Raw grated potatoes
      1 c  Leftover mashed potatoes
      2 ts Baking powder
      2 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Milk, to bind (more or less)
 
     Squeeze grated raw potatoes in cheese cloth to remove as much
  moisture as possible.  Sift flour with salt and baking powder.  Mix
  all potatoes with dry ingreds. and add beaten eggs.  Mix well, and
  add sufficient milk to make batter.  Drop by tablespoons onto hot
  buttered frying pan and cook over moderate heat until browned (4 min.
  per side.)  Serve hot and well buttered with or without sugar.
     NOTE:  Boxty is the traditional Irish fare for Shrove Tuesday.
  Composed of grated raw potatoes, mashed cooked potatoes, with flour
  added as a binding agent, Boxty is either fried in a pan or browned
  on a griddle. It is mentioned in a traditional children's Irish
  jingle:
  
                          "Three pans of boxty, baking all the day,
                           What use is boxty without a cup of tay?"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pride of Erin Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Green cabbage (abt.1#)
      2 tb Butter
      3 tb Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Chopped raw potato
    1/2 ts Ground mace
      2 tb A.P. flour
  2 1/2 c  Milk
  2 1/2 c  Chicken boullion
           Salt & pepper
      1 c  Heavy cream, whipped
      2 ts Fresh parsley, chopped
      2 tb Grated parmesan cheese
 
     Quarter cabbage, cutting away and discarding core.  Cover with
  boiling water and let stand for five min.  Drain and pat dry and
  shred.  Set aside. In heavy pan over lo heat, melt butter and simmer
  chopped onion until tender without browning.  Add cabbage and potato
  and stir over low heat. Add mace.  Stir in flour to coat all
  ingreds., but do not brown. Add liquids, bring to boil, and simmer
  for 20 min. or until vegs. are tender. Dump in blender and blend
  until almost smooth, but still a little lumpy. Reheat and add salt
  and pepper to taste.  If it seems too thick, add a bit of hot milk.
  Serve with scoop of whipped cream and a sprinkling of parsley and
  cheese on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless pork
    1/2 lb "streaky" bacon
      3 lb Potatoes (8-9 med.)
     10 sm Onions (or more)
           Salt & pepper
      2 c  Cold water
 
     Cut meat into neat pcs. and trim away as much fat as possible.
  Cut rind from bacon and cut into 1" pcs.  Pare potatoes and slice
  onions. Place layer of meat in heavy stewpan.  Add layer of bacon,
  onion and potatoes. Sprinkle with seasoning.  Repeat layers,
  finishing with potatoes. Add water and let it come slowly to boil.
  Remove andy scum that forms. Cover closely and simmer gently for abt.
  2 1/2 hrs.  Potatoes should be cooked to a pulp. (You can do this in
  crock pot: bring to boil on HI and then reduce to LO and let it
  simmer ALL day...put it on Friday morning before you got to work and
  have it for St. Patricks' Day supper!!
     Traditional Irish Stew  was made with spare-ribs.  Some use mutton
  or lamb...I prefer pork.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Slieve Na Mbam Carrots (Traditional Irish Dish)
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12    Young carrots
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Milk
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      2    Egg yolks
      1 ts Chopped fresh parsley
 
     Trim and wash the carrots and halve lengthwise.  Melt butter over
  med. heat.  Add milk, season with salt and pepper.  Add carrots and
  cook gently until just tender.  Remove from heat and stir in cream
  and beaten egg yolks.  Reheat but do not boil, stirring constantly
  until the eggs thicken. Correct seasoning and add parsley.
  
     NOTE:  The reddish crest of Sleieve na mBan (The Mountain of Women
  in Ireland) rising above the milk-white mist that forms there gives
  its name to this dish of cream-wreathed carrots.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Haggerty (Traditional Irish Dish)
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 ea Med. potatoes
      1 lg Onion
      2 tb Bacon fat
    1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Wash and peel potatoes and cut into paper thin slices.  Pat dry
  with towel.  Cut onion into paper thin slices. Heat half of the bacon
  fat in a heavy frying pan and fill the pan with alternate layers of
  potatoes, onions, and cheese, finishing with potatoes.  Sprinkle each
  layer with salt and pepper.  Dot the final layer with remaining bacon
  fat.  Cook over moderate heat until potatoes are almost tender.  Turn
  the Haggerty carefully onto a plate and then carefully slide it back
  into the pan and continue cooking undil done.  To serve, cut into
  wedges and serve with a dollop of sour cream..
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Collops (Traditional Irish Dish)
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 ea Med. potatoes
      1 lg Onion
           Salt & pepper to taste
      2 ts Chopped parsley
    1/4 lb Raw bacon, diced
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Scalded milk (still hot)
    1/4 c  Grated cheddar cheese
 
     Peel the potatoes and cut into very thin slices.  Chop onion.
  Place a layer of vegetables on a greased baking dish.  Sprinkle with
  seasonings, parsley and diced bacon.  Dot with butter.  Repepat
  layers until all ingreds. are used.  Pour milk over top with cheese.
  Cover and bake in a preheated 350 F. oven for 45 min.  Uncover and
  continue cooking until potatoes are done and top is nicely browned.
  
     NOTE:  A collop is a small portion of any food.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Colcannon (Traditional Irish Dish)
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7 lg Potatoes (or more)
      1 ea Large bunch kale greens
    1/4 c  Butter
           Milk or cream as needed
      4 ea Strips of bacon, cut up
      1 tb Onion, minced
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Peel and boil 7 or 8 med. to lge. potatoes until done.  Remove
  stalks from leaves of kale greens and tear or chop into very small
  pcs.  Bring to a boil with a bit of bacon and simmer while potatoes
  cook.  Mash the potatoes with 1/4 c. of butter and milk or cream as
  needed.  Add salt and pepper.  Drain the chopped, cooked kale.  (You
  should have about twice as many potatoes as kale.  Mix the two
  together with 1 tb. minced onion. Correct seasoning and serve with
  butter.
  
     NOTE:  Colcannon is a mixture of buttered greens and potatoes.
  Traditionally concannon was eaten at Halloween.  A heaping portion is
  dished onto each plate.  A well is made in the center of the mount to
  hold a generous portion of butter.  The colcannon is eaten from
  around the outside in.  You take a scoop, dip it in the well of
  butter in the center and eat.  With a glass of buttermilk, the WAS a
  meal in itself.  In the Midlands, colcannon is called "thump".  In
  the north and western parts of Ireland it is called "champ".  To tell
  fortunes on Halloween, a ring and a silver coin were mixed into the
  colcannon...whoever got the ring was soon to marry and whoever got
  the coin would be wealthy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Soda Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 round loaf
 
      3 c  A.P. flour, sifted
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2    Stick butter, room temp.
    3/4 c  Currants
      1 tb Caraway seeds
      1    Egg
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2 tb Honey
 
     Preheat oven to 350 F.  Thoroughly mix together fifted flour, soda,
  baking powder, and salt.  Cut in the soft butter, working it in with
  your fingers until it is evenly distributed and the testure is a bit
  like corn meal.  Stir in the currants and caraway seeds.  Beat egg,
  buttermilk, and honey together in a small bowl.  Add milk mixture to
  the dry ingreds. stiring only enough to moisten evenly.  DO NOT
  OVERMIX.  Turn out on a lightly floured board and briefly knead to
  form a smooth dough.  Shape into a high, round ball.  Place on a
  buttered baking sheet.  Slash across vertically and horizontally
  about 4" long and 1/2" deep.  Bake at 350 F. for 50 to 55 min.  Cool
  30 min. before slicing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barm Brack (Traditional Irish Bread)
 Categories: Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Mixed dry fruit--currants>>>
           Dark & golden raisins.
      1 c  Boiling black tea
      1 ea Egg
      1 ts Mixed spice (see note*)
      4 ts Marmalade
      1 c  (heaping)superfine sugar
  2 1/2 c  Self-rising flour
 
     Place dried fruit in a bowl, cover with the hot tea and let soak
  overnight.  The next day, add the remaining ingreds. and mix well.
  Preheat oven to 375 F.  Pour batten into greased 7" square pan and
  bake in the center of oven for 1 1/2 hrs.  Let cool in the pan on
  awire rack. Slice and serve buttered with tea.
  
     NOTE* (Mixed spices:  equal parts of cinnamon, clove, nutmeg,
  allspice, and mace.
  
     1.  In Northern Ireland and in the Republic, BRACK is the Celtic
  word for salt and is used to mean "bread".  Barm brack is leavened
  bread, the word BARM meaning yeast.
  
     2.  The term "barmbrack" for an Irish fruit loaf or cake does not
  derive from barm or leaven.  It is a corruption of the Irish word
  "aran breac" (Speckled Bread).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread Pudding-West Texas Style
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Rainins
      1 c  Brandy
     10 sl Whole wheat bread (or more)
    1/2 c  Pecans, toasted & chopped
      1 c  Grated cheddar cheese
      1 c  Sugar
  3 1/2 c  Water, hot
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Cinnamon
        ds Nutmeg
        ds Ground corriander
        ds Cloves

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
     The day before, put raisins into a small bowl and pour brandy over
  them. Cover loosely and let stand overnight.  Next day, preheat oven
  to 350 F. Butter a 9 x 13-inch baking dish.  Dice bread and put it in
  dish. Add pecans and cheese to the bread and toss.  Scatter the
  raisins over the top, drizzling on any brandy that has not been
  soaked up by raisins.  Pour the sugar into a large heavy saucepan.
  Warm it over medium heat, stirring to facilitate even heating, until
  it melts and turns a deep golden brown. Pour in the water, carefully
  because steam will rise rapidly as water hits the sugar.  The mixture
  will begin to solidify.
  
     Stirring, cook until the mixture is liquid again.  Add butter,
  vanilla, and spices to syrup.  Ladle the caramel carefully over
  bread.  Syrup should be about level with tops of the bread.  If any
  bread pcs. are not covered, push them down into the liquid.
  
     Bake 20 to 25 min. until syrup is absorbed and cheese has melted
  into the pudding.
  
     Beat whipping cream, adding sugar and vanilla.  Spoon pudding into
  serving dishes, and dollop whipped cream on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: St. Patrick's Day Leprechaun Mold
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
    1/4 c  Green Creme de Menthe
    1/4 c  White Creme de Cocoa
    1/2 c  Sugar, divided
    1/8 ts Salt
      3    Eggs, separated
      1 c  Cream, whipped
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Green sprinkles or green>>>
           Sugar crystals.
 
     Sprinkle gelatin over water in a med. saucepan.  Add 1/4 c. of the
  sugar, salt, and beaten egg yolks.  Stir until thoroughly blended.
  Place over low heat and stir constantly until gelatin dissolves and
  mixture thickens slightly, about 5 min.  Remove from the heat and
  stir in liquers. Chill, stirring occasionally, until mixture mounds
  slightly when dropped from a spoon.
  
     Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry.  Gradually add remaining
  1/4 c. sugar and beat until very stiff.  Fold in gelatin mixture.
  
     Beat the cream stiff and fold in the vanilla.  Fold into the
  mixture and turn into a six cup mold.  Chill.  Unmold onto a green
  plate and sprinkle with green sugar sprinkles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Lady Finger Cake (Elegant But Easy)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Freshly squeezed lemon juice
           Grated zest of 1 lemon
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Butter
      5 ea Egg yolks, well beaten
      5 ea Egg whites, beaten stiff
  1 1/2 pk Lady Fingers
           Whipped cream/topping
 
     Line 1 qt. mold with wax paper and then with lady finger halves.
  
     Mix lemon juice with sugar and cornstarch in top of double boiler
  and cook over simmering water until mixture is thickened.  Add the
  butter and stir until melted.  Add beaten egg yolks, stirring
  constantly, and cook 2 min. longer.  Stir in grated zest and then
  fold in the beaten egg whites, mixing lightly but thoroughly.  Pour
  half the mixture into lined mold. Cover with layer of lady finger
  halves.  Repeat layers.  Refrigerate overnight.
  
     Unmold onto crystal pedestal cake platter.  Pipe whipped cream
  onto top and around bottom edge of cake.  Garnish with paper thin
  slices of candied lemon peel.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Mold
 Categories: Appetizer, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Doz. fresh shrimp boiled>>>>
           In crab boil (Zatarain's)
      1 lg Pkg. cream cheese
      1 sm Pkg. cream cheese
      1 c  Cold water
      4 pk Knox gelatine (plain)
      1 cn Tomato soup
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      3    Ribs celery, chopped fine
      1    Bunch green onions, chopped
           Salt,pepper and cayenne to>>
           Taste.
 
     Warm undiluted soup until simmering. Remove from stove. Mix
  gelatine in cold water. Add pkgs. of cream cheese, mix well with
  soup. Cheese will be a little lumpy; stir well. Add cleaned cooked
  shrimp, seasoning, mayonnaise. Mix well and put in Tupperwzare ring
  mold. Chill in 'fridge until ready to serve. Serve on Ritz or Encore
  crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Paste
 Categories: Appetizer, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 sm Can cooked shrimp
      1 pk Cream cheese (8 oz.)
      1    Very samll onion (grate>>>>
           Until juicy).
  1 1/2 tb Chili sauce
  1 1/2 ts Horseradish
 
     Rinse and clean shrimp, breaking it into small pieces. Begin mixing
  softened cream sheese with other ingredients, except the shrimp. Mix
  well, then add shrimp and continue mixing, leaving the shrimp in
  chunky bits. This is not a dip, but it is used as a spread for
  crackers or potato chips. It should be made several hours ahead of
  serving time and refrigerated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Remoulade I
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Paprika
      4    Green onions, chopped
      4 tb Creole style mustard
      2 tb Vinegar
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Ribs celery, chopped fine
           Chopped parsley to taste
    1/4    Hd. lettuce, shredded
      2 lb Shrimp,boiled,cleaned,cold
      2    Hard cooked eggs, chopped>>>
           Keep white & yolk separate.
 
     Combine all ingreds., except lettuce, eggs and shrimp. Chill. Place
  shrimp on plate of shredded lettuce. Pour remoulade over shrimp and
  garnish with eggs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Remoulade Ii
 Categories: Appetizer, Salsa/sauce, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 tb Oil
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2    Heart of celery, fine chop
      2 tb Vinegar
    1/2 ts Creole mustard
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/2    White onion, chopped finely
           Chopped parsley
 
     Mix all ingredients well and chill.  Serve on cold boiled shrimp.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sally's Remoulade Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer, Salsa/sauce, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Cloves garlic, pressed
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Catsup
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Dash of Tabasco
           Horseradish to taste
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 sm White onion, grated
    1/2 c  Wesson oil
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
           Dash of paprika
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Mustard
 
     Blend all ingreds. together in blender--serve over cold boiled
  shrimp.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Remoulade Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer, Salsa/sauce, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Celery (5 ribs)
      4    Cloves garlic
      1 tb Paprika
      1 tb Mustard
    1/3 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Catsup
      1 tb Horseradish
 
     Put ingreds. in blender about 3-5 min. until well blended. Chill.
  Serve over cold, boiled shrimp.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer, Salsa/sauce, Fish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Shrimp, boiled, chopped
      3    Strips raw bacon, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      2 c  Milk, scalded
      2 dr Yellow food color
    1/4    Stick butter or oleo
    1/4 c  Sherry
      2 oz Chopped mushrooms
      3 sm Green onions, chopped
      1 tb Seafood seasoning
      1 ts Parsley flakes
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
      Fry bacon, add green onions and saute until soft, not brown. Add
  mushrooms. Add garlic. Let cook a few minutes. Add butter, then flour.
  Reduce heat and saute until light brown. Add milk gradually. Add lemon
  juice and wine. Add chopped shrimp and seafood seasoning. Mixture
  will be thick. Cook over low heat for 5 min. Freeze or refrigerate
  until ready to use.  Stuffs 100 bite sized patty shells or can be
  used over toast or as sauce for broiled fish.  Thin with milk if
  using for sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Sauce Ii
 Categories: Salad, Salsa/sauce, Dressing, Fish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chili sauce
    3/4 c  Wesson oil
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
      3    Cloves garlic
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    3/4 c  Catsup
    1/2 ts Red pepper
      1    Onion
      1 ts Salt
 
     Put all ingreds. into blender and set on liquefy for abt. 2 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: King's Brown Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Main dish, Fish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 sm White onions, minced
      1    Winesap apple, grated OR>>>
      3 tb Mincemeat
      3 oz Kikkoman soy sauce
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1    Bottle (5 oz.) Picappeppa>>>
           Sauce--NO SUBSTITUTIONS.
      4 oz Olive oil
           Red & black pepper, salt
 
     Saute onion and garlic in oil, add remaining ingredients and
  simmer 30 minutes. Use for crab legs or cook shrimp in sauce.  Serve
  shrimp in brown sauce with toasted hard rolls and garlic butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Coctail Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Appetizer, Clam/oyster
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Catsup
      3 tb Horseradish
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
     Combine ingreds. and use sauce to make oyster or shrimp coctails,
  or use with raw oysters on half shell.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pink Pickeled Eggs
 Categories: Appetizer, Cheese/eggs, Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Hard cooked eggs, shelled
      1 c  Canned beet juice
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
    1/2    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Allspice
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1 c  Cider vinegar
 
     Place eggs in quart jar. Combine remaining ingreds in enameled
  saucepan and bring to boil. Pour over eggs. Cover, cool and
  refrigerate for at least 8 hrs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickeled Jalapenos
 Categories: Appetizer, Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Jalapeno peppers
    1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Mixed pickling spice
 
     Wash and pack jalapeno peppers tightly into hot jars. Combine
  remaining ingreds. in an enameled or glass saucepan and bring to
  boil. Cover peppers with boiling liquid, leaving 1/2" head-space.
  Seal jars with sterilized 2 pc. canning lids and process in boiling
  water to cover by 2" for 10 min. Cool on rack. Store for 30 days
  before using.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Okra or Corn
 Categories: Appetizer, Can/preserv, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Red pepper
      1 ts Mustard seed
      2 ts Salt (not iodized)
    1/4 c  Water
           Okra or Corn
      1 ts Dill seed
      1 c  White vinegar
      3    Cloves garlic
 
     Use small okra or corn. (Pick corn when it is 2-3 inches long and
  no kernels have formed yet.) Wash well. Soak in ice water 1 hr. per
  pint. Pack in pint jars. Mix together dry seasonings. Mix vinegar and
  water in enameled or glass saucepan, bring to boil. Put dry
  seasonings over okra or corn. Pour boiling mixture over all.  Seal.
  Store for 2-3 wks. to allow to pickle properly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Squash
 Categories: Appetizer, Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Fresh raw squash
           Parmesan/Romano cheese(opt.)
           Bottled Ital. salad dressing
 
     Place thinly sliced, washed, raw squash in large jar, packing as
  tightly as possible. Cover with bottled dressing to about 1/2" of top
  of jar. Romano or Parmesan cheese may be added if desired.
  Refrigerate for abt. 2 wks.  The squash will be firm and crunchy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Corn Relish
 Categories: Relish, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 qt Whole fresh kernel corn OR>>
           Equal amt. frozen or canned.
      1 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Salt
      1 c  Pimento, chopped coarse
      1 c  Green pepper, chopped coarse
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped med.
      2 c  Vinegar (1 pt. bottle)
      1 ts Celery seed
 
     Mix sugar, salt, celery seed and vinegar together. Place in
  enameled, or pyrex saucepan and boil with vegetables for 20 min. Can
  and process in usual manner.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Relish
 Categories: Relish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lg Lemons
      6    Green onions with tops
    1/2 c  Green pepper, seeded
    1/4 c  Parsley sprigs
      1 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Ground cardamom
      1 ts Salt
      1 sm Hot red pepper
      1 tb Sugar
 
     Grate lemons, save the grated peel. Cut away remaining yellow and
  white. Put lemons, onions, pepper and parsley spring through coarse
  blade of chopper. Stir in grated peel. Add celery, mustard, cardamom,
  salt, chopped red pepper, sugar. Cover and rerfrigerate over night.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Relish
 Categories: Relish, Appetizer, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggplants
      2    Onions, diced
      5    Cloves garlic, diced
      1 cn Tomato paste (6 oz.)
    1/2 c  Wine vinegar
      1    Jar olive salad mix
      2    Bell peppers, diced
      2    Ribs celery, diced
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Salt, pepper, red pepper
    1/2 ts Oregano
 
     Peel, dice and boil eggplant until tender. Drain and add remainder
  of ingreds. Cook 30 min. Celery should still be crunchy. Can or
  process in usual way. After opening, keep refrigerated. Serve chilled
  on crackers.
  
     If you can't find olive salad mix in grocery store, chop enough
  pimento stuffed green olives (medium chop) to equal 1 1/2 c.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crawfish Bisque
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Soup/stew, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------GRAVY--------------------------------
      1 c  Cooking oil
      2 lg Onions
      4    Ribs celery
      4    Cloves garlic
  2 1/2 c  Ground crawfish tails
      9 c  Hot water
      5 ts Salt
      2 c  Flour (about)
      6    Green onions
    1/4    Bell pepper
     10    Sprigs of parsley
    1/2    Of crawfish fat
      2 ts Red pepper
      4 ts (heaping) Tomato paste

MMMMM---------------------STUFFING FOR HEADS--------------------------
           Rest of ground crawfish tail
      3    Ribs celery
    1/4    Bell pepper
      4    Cloves garlic
     10    Sprigs parsley
      2 c  Dry bread crumbs (or more)
      2 ts Red pepper
      2 lg Onions
      6    Green onions
           Rest of crawfish fat
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
      2    Eggs, beaten
      4 ts Salt
           Flour
 
     Use 1 sack crawfish (about 40 lbs.) Scald crawfish in almost
  boiling water for about 15 min. Drain and cool. Peel crawfish and
  save the fat in a separate bowl. Clean abt. 200 heads to stuff.
  
  To make gravy:  Grind onions, celery bell pepper, garlic and parsley.
  Make roux with oil and flour. Stir constantly until browned. Add
  ground seasonings. Cook on low fire abt. 30 min. Add tomato paste and
  crawfish fat. Cook abt. 30 min more. Add hot water and let cook on
  low fire. Add ground crawfish tails, add salt and pepper. Cook on
  high fire abt. 20 min. Add baked crawfish heads. Cook on low fire
  abt. 1 hr. More hot water may be added if too thick. Stir carefully.
  Serve in soup bowls over rice.
  
  To make stuffing for heads:  Grind onions, celery, bell pepper,
  garlic and parsley. Fry crawfish and ground seasonings in hot cooking
  oil; cool. Add cawfish fat and eggs. Mix in bread crumbs, salt and
  pepper. Stuff heads. Dip the stuffed part of head in flour and place
  on cookie sheet. Bake for 20 min in 400 F. oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crawfish Bisque Ii
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Soup/stew, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------BISQUE--------------------------------
  4 1/2 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Minced parsley
    1/2 c  Green onion tops, chopped
    1/2    Of cleaned crawfish tails
    1/2 c  Crawfish fat
    3/4    Block of butter
    1/2 c  Olive or salad oil
      1 c  Flour
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      3    Ribs celery, chopped
      1 lg Bell pepper, chopped
      3    Pods garlic, chopped
      1 ts Red pepper
      3 ts Salt

MMMMM----------------STUFFING FOR CRAWFISH HEADS---------------------
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
    1/2 c  Flour
      2    Med onions, chopped
      1 lg Bell pepper, chopped
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Red pepper
  1 1/2 c  Bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Minced parsledy
    1/4 c  Green onion tops
      3    Pods garlic, chopped
    3/4 c  Water
    1/2    Block of butter
    1/2    Of the crawfish tails
    1/2    Of the reserved fat
 
     Use 20 lb. live crawfish, or 3 lbs crawfish tails, 60 cleaned
  crawfish heads. Pick over the crawfish to remove any dead ones.
  Purge. Pour boiling water over live crawfish and let stand for abt. 5
  min. until they turn red. Separate heads from the tails. If fat is
  used, remove from each head at this time and place in separate dish.
  Select 60 of the largest heads, clean out thoroughly, remove eyes,
  wash and boil a few minutes. Let stand in water until ready to use.
     To  prepare Bisque: Make golden roux by cooking flour and oil
  together, slowly stirring constantly. Add onions, bell pepper and
  celery. Cook until onions are transparent, stirring frequently. Add
  crawfish tails and fat. Cook on low heat for abt. 20 min. Stir
  occasionally. Greaually add the boiling water, salt and pepper. Cook
  for 20 min. Add garlic, onion tops and parsley. Just before serving,
  add the stuffed and baked crawfish heads. Serve in soup plates with
  fluffy steamed rice, croutons or garlic bread.
     To prepare Stuffing for heads: Before starting to stuff heads,
  remove from water and letr drip dry. Have bread crumbs ready. Grind
  onions, pepper and tails in a separate dish. Make a golden brn. roux.
  Add onions and bell pepper and cook until onions are transparent. Add
  ground tails and fat. Let simmer for 15 min. Add water, salt, pepper,
  bread crumbs, parsley, gharlic and onion tops. Add 1/2 block melted
  butter if desired. Mix thoroughly. Stuff each head, roll in flour,
  place in baking pan side by side with stuffed side up. Bake 15 min.
  in 375 F. oven. Add to bisque just before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Bisque
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp, cooked, ground
      2 tb Chopped celery
      3 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 ds Pepper
      2 tb Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Melted oleo
      1 ts Salt
      4 c  Hot milk
           Parsley
 
     Put shrimp through meat grinder or food processor. Saute onion and
  celery in butter until tender. Blend in flour and seasonings. Add
  milk and cook until thick, stirring constantly. Stir in shrimp and
  heat through. Sprinkle with chopped parsley in serving bowl.
  
  Yield: 6 to 8 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili I
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Chili, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Chili powder
      2 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
      1    Rib celery, chopped
      2 tb Flour
           Salt, pepper,garlic to taste
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 c  Water
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
 
     Brown meat, onion and celery. Add water, tomato sauce,
  Worcestershire sauce, chili powder, garlic, salt and pepper. Cook
  abt. 30 min. over med. heat. Mix flour with a little water and add to
  chili.  Cook until thickened.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Ii
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Chili, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1 lb Ground meat
      1 lg Onion, chopped
           Seasonings to taste
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (1 lb.)
      1    Bottle chili sauce
      1 cn Tomato paste (small)
      1    Chili stick
      2 cn Red beans (or more )
      2 tb Mexene chili powder
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 cn Water(small), or more.
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
     Brown meat in large skillet. Add onion and seasoning. Cook until
  beef is separated well. Add tomtoes and sauce. Melt chili stick and
  add to beef. Add water, sugar, salt and pepper, chili powder and
  cayenne pepper. Cook slowly for 1 1/2 hrs. Add beans, cook 1/2 hr.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Iii
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Chili, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Lean, diced beef
      1 qt Water
      3 ts Salt
      5    Cloves garlic, fine chop
      1 ts Marjoram
      1 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Liquid shortening
      8    Chili pods OR>>>>>
      6 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Red pepper
      3 tb Paprika

MMMMM-------------------------THICKENING------------------------------
      6 tb Corn meal
      3 tb Flour
      1 c  Water
 
     Heat oil in large pot, add meat and sear over high heat. Stir
  constantly until meat is gray, but not brown. Add water and cover,
  cook over low fire for 1 1/2 hrs. Add remaining ingreds., except
  thickening, and cok at a bubbling simmer 30 min. Mix thickening
  ingreds. together, add to chili mixture, cook about 5 min., stirring
  to prevent sticking. More water may be added for desired sonsistency.
  If meat is very fat, skim off before adding thickening. For milder
  flavor, cut chili powder and red pepper in half, but add 2 more tbs.
  paprika for color.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Chowder I
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh fish filets
      4    Potatoes, peeled, sliced
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 c  Diced salt pork
      1 sm Onion, diced
      2 c  Milk, scalded
 
     Cook fish slowly in small amount of water until fish flakes when
  tried with a fork. Remove fish and flake. Cook potatoes in fish water
  until tender. Fry out salt pork, add onion and cook slowly until
  lightly browned. Add fish, salt pork and onions to potatoes in fish
  water. Next, pour milk into pan, heat and add to chowder. Season with
  salt and pepper. Crushed crackers may be added to the chowder.
  
  Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Chowder Ii
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Diced potatoes
      1 c  Boiling water
    3/4 lb Fish fillets, cubed
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
      3 sl Bacon
      1    Medium onion, chopped
      1 c  Milk
 
     Place potatoes in Dutch oven with boiling water, cover and cook
  10-15 minutes. Fry bacon until transparent, add onion and cook until
  onion is soft and bacon is lightly browned. Add bacon, onion, bacon
  drippings and fish fillets to potatoes. Simmer 10 minutes or until
  potatoes and fish are done. Stir in milk, salt and pepper. Simmer 5
  minutes. Sprinkle with parsley.
  
  Yield:  2-3 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Onion, sliced
      1 lg Can cream style corn
    1/2 ts Salt
           Croutons, or oyster crackers
    1/2 c  Butter or oleo, melted
    1/2 c  Half & half
      1 c  Ham, chopped
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
     Saute onion in butter until tender. Add remaining ingreds. to pot
  and cook over low heat until thoroughly heated. Garnish with croutons
  or crackers.  Makes 6-8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gumbo I
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Okra, cut up
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 cn Tomato paste
      1 qt Water
      2 lb Shrimp, peeled
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes
           Hot red pepper & cayenne>>
           To taste
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Flour
      4    Crabs
 
     Combine okra, garlic, tomato paste, stewed tomatoes, onion, bay
  leaf and water. Cook slowly until done. Brown flour, add enough water
  to make a roux. Add roux, shrimp, crabs and season to taste. Cook
  slowly until done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gumbo Ii
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Shrimp, chicken, or crawfish
      1    Stick oleo
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      1    Stalk celery, chopped
      3 qt Water
      1 tb Green onions
      2 cn Tomatoes
      2 c  Okra, cut up
      2 tb Oil
      4 tb Flour
      1 lg Bell pepper, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      4 tb Worcestershire sauce
 
     Fry fresh okra in oil; do not burn. add oleo anbd flour. Make
  roux. Add onion, celery, bell pepper and garlic. Saute until soft.
  Add water and Worcestershire sauce. Add the tomatoes. Cook for 1-2
  hrs. Add the meat of your choice. Let simmer for 30 min. Serve with
  rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Chicken, any size
      6    Eggs
      2 c  Oysters
      1 lg Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
      3    Smoked sausage links
  2 1/2 c  Peeled shrimp
  1 1/2 tb File
    1/2 c  Green onions, chopped
      1 qt Water
 
     No cooking oil is needed; chicken fat will melt. Pre heat large
  pot over medium heat for 5 minutes. Add cut up chicken and fry abt.
  10 min. Add onion and let chicken and onion brown together. When
  browned, add green onions and parsley. Let cook abt. 15 min. Don't
  stir chicken too much. Add sausage, shrimp and oysters. Let cook 10
  min. and add water. Let mixture come to a boil for 15 min. Break raw
  eggs, 1 at a time, in boiling mixture in separate places in your pot.
  Continue to cook for 10 minutes. Do not stir during this time. Add
  file. Stir and turn heat off. Add salt and pepper to taste. Serves 10
  to 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Chicken, cut up
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 tb Minced parsley
           Thyme--fresh if available
      1 lb Smoked sausage or Andouille
      1 tb File powder
      4 tb Cooking oil
      2 qt Chicken stock, heated
      2 tb Chopped green onion
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1    Pint of oysters
      1    Clove garlic, minced
 
     Brown chicken slowly in oil in heavy pot. Remove chicken pcs. and
  saute onion until soft. Return chicken to pot with onions, cover and
  cook over low heat, about 10 minutes, stirring occasionally to
  prevent burning. Add heated chicken stock, parsley, green onion and
  garlic. Season with thyme, salt and pepper. Cook over low heat until
  chicken is tender. Add sausage and cook for 10 minutes. Add oysters
  and oyster water, cook for 10 minutes longer. Skim off any excess
  fat. Remove from fire and immediately add file powder, stirring while
  adding. Serve over steamed rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Sausage Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
    1/4 c  Green onions & tops, chopped
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
           Salt & red pepper to taste
           Sausage
    1/4 c  Onions, chopped
    1/4 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/2 lb Chicken wings, or those >>>
           Parts which please you.
     10 c  Water
 
     Cut sausage in thin pcs. Combine oil and flour to make a roux.
  Stir over low heat until brown. Add parsley, onions, green onions,
  bell pepper, garlic, sausage and 1 cup water. Bring to a boil, reduce
  heat and simmer for 3 minutes. Add remaining 9 cups water and bring
  to a boil.  Add chicken, salt and cayenne pepper.  Bring to boil,
  reduce heat and simmer for abt. 2 hrs. Serve over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crawfish File Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Shortening
      1 c  Flour
      1    Onion, minced
    1/4 c  Parsley, minced
      3    Pods garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Celery leaves, minced
      1 lb Crawfish tails, cleaned
      8 c  Water
    1/2 c  Crawfish fat
           Seasonings to taste
 
     Make a roux by cooking shortening and flour together to make a
  golden brown color while stirring constantly. Add onions and cook
  until soft. Add crawfish fat. Stir constantly while cooking over low
  heat until shortening floats on top. Add water and seasonings. Simmer
  over a low heat for 30 min. About 1/2 hr. before serving, add garlic
  and crawfish tails and let simmer for 25 min. longer. Add parsley,
  green onion tops, celery leaves and simmer 5 min. longer. Just before
  serving, add about 3/4 tsp. file powder, if desired. Serve in soup
  plates with hot steamed rice and Tabasco sauce, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mary's Seafood Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Okra
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      1 cn Frozen crabmeat
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Small amt. oil
      3    Tomatoes, or 1 (#2) can
      5 lb Deheaded shrimp
      6    Crabs (or more)
           Tabasco sauce
           Garlic, bay leaf & thyme
 
     Use large alumionum pot,  not iron. Wash, stem and cut okra into
  1/2" pcs.  Season with salt and pepper.  Smother okra in as little
  oil as possible.  When almost done, add onion.  Cook until tender,
  add tomatoes. Let simmer, add remaining ingredients and simer until
  done.  If there is a favorite vegetable of the South, it is surely
  okra.  Gumbo gets its name from the Choctaw Indian word 'Kombo' for
  any thick soup made with okra.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Okra-Shrimp Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Whole tomatoes
  1 1/2    Cook spoons plain flour
      4    Stalks celery, chopped
      3 lb Shrimp, peeled, deveined
    1/8 c  Cooking oil
      4 qt Water
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 lg Onion, chopped
    1/2    Bell pepper, chopped
    1/4 c  Shallots, chopped
      1 pt Salty oysters
      2    Boxes frozen okra, unthawed
 
      In large pot, make roux of flour and oil, stirring until dark
  brown. Add vegs. until wilted.  Cook okra in separate pot by frying
  in grease until almost all of rope is gone.   Do not prepare ahead.
  Add shrimp to vegs., cook until brigh pink.  Add tomatoes, cook about
  5 minutes.   Add cooked okra.  Simmer for 5 min., add water, more or
  less depending upon consistency you prefer.  Season with salt and
  pepper.  Cook abt. 1 1/2 hrs. Add oysters 5 minutes before gumbo is
  done.  Serve with rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Hot sausage
      1 lb Smoked sausage
      1    Beef round
           Gumbo file
           Green peppers
      1 lg Onion
           Celery
           Flour
      1 lb Pork links
      1 lb Italian sausage
      1    Jar oysters
           Garlic
           Parsley
           Green onions
           Salt & pepper
           Water
 
     Fry sausages, cool and cut into thin slices (pork links each into 3
  pcs).  Cut beef round into pieces.  Fry pieces in large pot until
  meat iss brown and tender, remove meat.  Chop all vegs., add to
  drippings in pot, saute until light brown.  Add flour to make a roux.
  When roux is golden brown, add water, sausage and meat.  Cook until
  meat and sausages are tender and gumbo thickens.  Add oysters.  Cook
  until tender.  Add file 1/2 hr. before gumbo is finished.  Serve over
  rice.  The meat can be placed into deep pie shell and served as pot
  pie; drain off broth before placing meat in shell.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Schumann's Seafood Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 tb Flour, leveled
      6    Cloves garlic, chopped
  1 3/8 c  Chopped bell pepper
      3 lb Unpeeled shrimp
      1 sm Can tomato sauce
    1/4    Bunch parsley, chopped
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
      2 lb Selected okra
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Diced onion
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      3 qt Water
      1 lb Crabmeat
    1/2 ts Thyme
      3    Bay leaf
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
 
     Boil shrimp in salted water for 5 min.; save stock.  Clean shrimp
  and set aside.  Cut okra into thin rounds and brown in shortening.
  Do not scorch.  In another pan, make a roux with flour and
  shortening.  Add garlic and cook until golden brown.  Add onion, bell
  pepper, celery and parsley. Cook until transparent.  Add tomato
  sauce, simmer 10 minutes. Stir in shrimp stock and blend well.  Add
  thyme and bay leaves, cook 1 hour. Last 20 minutes, add shrimp, crab,
  salt, pepper, Tabasco sauce, Worcestershire sauce and okra.  Cover
  pot and allow to simmer gently at least 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Shrimp Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Cooking oil
      1 c  Okra
      1 cn Chicken gumbo
      2 cn Shrimp (4 1/2 oz.)
      2 tb Flour
      1 cn Chicken & rice soup
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Make roux with cooking oil and flour.  Brown until dark brown
  color. Add okra, salt and pepper.  Add soup and carefully rinsed
  shrimp.  Simmer until hot.  Serve over rice.  If more vegs. are
  desired, add chopped bell bepper, minced garlic and green onion
  blades.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Turkey Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 cn Chicken gumbo soup
      2 c  Cubed, cooked turkey
      2 tb Chopped pimiento
      1 cn Chow mein noodles (3 oz.)
 
     In saucepan, combine cornstarch, water and soy sauce.  Add soup.
  Cook and stir until mixture is thickened and bubbly.  Stir in turkey
  and pimiento.  Heat through.  Serve over chow mein noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Soup I
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Great northern beans
      2 lg Onions, finely chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      2 qt Water (or more if needed)
      1 lb Smoked sausage, diced
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Presoak beans for faster cooking.  Combine ingedients and cook in
  heavy pot over low heat until tender, at least 2 hrs.  Mash with
  potato masher until beans blend into soup.  Best served with warm
  corn bread. This recipe is perfect for crock-pots and slow cookers if
  cooking time is extended.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Soup Ii
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Small dry lima beans
      1    Ham bone, OR>>>>
      4    Ham hocks
           Lemon pepper
           Oleo
      1    Bunch green onions, chopped
      6    Stalks celery, chopped fine
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Accent (MSG) as desired
           Water, as needed
 
     Wash and pick through lima beans.  Cook in pressure cooker until
  done. Saute onions and celery in oleo until wilted.  Place beans,
  vegs. and ham in large soup kettle with plenty of water.  Add salt
  and pepper.  Shake on lemon  pepper seasoning and dash or two of
  Accent.  Simmer several hours until thick, stirring occasionally.
  Very good crock-pot recipe.  Serve with Mexican corn bread.  Freezes
  well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pureed Green Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Green beans (#303) OR>>>
      1 pk Frozen green beans, unthawed
      1    Beef bouillon cube
           Sour cream
      1 sm Onion, sliced
      2 c  Chicken broth
      2 oz Cheddar cheese, grated
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Worcestershire to taste
 
     Cook beans, onion and broth together, add bouillon cube.  Puree in
  blender while hot, season with salt, pepper and Worcestershire sauce.
  Divide cheese in bottoms of 4 soup cups, add soup and garnish with
  sour cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: She Crab Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Leek, sliced
      8    Ribs celery, diced
      2 tb Flour
           Pinch of oregano
      1 qt Fish stock
    1/2 lb Crabmeat
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2    Egg yolks, beaten
      1    Onion, diced
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 ts Tomato paste
      1 qt Chicken broth
      4 oz Crab roe
      4 tb Sherry
    1/2 pt Cream
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
     Melt butter in saucepan, add vegs., and simmer until tender.  Mix
  flour, tomato paste and oregano.  Stir well, add tovegs.  Stir in
  chicken broth and fish stock.  Boil 30 min., stirring occasionally.
  To this mixture, add crab roe, crabmeat, sherry, Worcestershire
  sauce, salt & pepper. Cook for 5 minutes ONLY.  Remove from heat.
  Add egg yolks and cream. Serve at once. Makes about 1 gallon.
  
     This is a very old and secretive South Carolina recipe that
  originated in Charleston, SC., a city much like that of the history
  of New Orleans. The recipe has never before been given out from the
  original family of the restaurant first making this dish.  Over the
  years, othe restaurants have come up with a good likeness of it, but
  not the original.  Here is the original.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Country Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Beef shanks
      2 cn Tomato sauce (small)
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Med. onion, choppped
      1    Wedge cabbage, 1"thick,chop
      1 lb Cut green beans
      2 qt Water
      2    Beef bouillon cubes
      1 ts Salt
      2    Whole cloves
      3    Turnips, pared and diced OR>
      1    Rutabaga,small
      1 c  Uncooked elbow macaroni
 
     In dutch oven or kettle, combine beef, water, onion, tomato sauce,
  cabbage, bouillon cubes, sugar, salt, pepper and cloves.  Bring to
  boil, simmer covered for 2 hrs.  Add turnips, macaroni and beans.
  Simmer uncovered for 20 or 30 minutes more, or until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Onion Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
      2    Stalks celery, fine chop
      1    Blade mace
           Salt & Pepper to taste
    2/3 c  Milk
           Fried croutons (garnish)
      3 c  Onions, finely chopped
  3 3/4 c  Chicken stock
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 c  Flour
    2/3 c  Single or double cream
           Chopped fresh mixed herbs
 
     Fry onions and celery for 5 minutes, without browning, in melted
  butter. Add chicken stock, mace, bay leaf and seasoning.  Bring to a
  boil, cover and simmer 45 minutes or until tender.  Remove bay leaf
  and mace blade. The soup can now be sieved or pureed if a smooth soup
  is desired. Blend flour with milk and whisk gradually into soup.
  Return to a boil, stirring constantly.  Reduce heat and simmer for 5
  minutes. Adjust seasoning. Stir in cream and reheat before serving.
  Dip the hot fried croutons into finely chopped savory herbs and float
  them on top of soup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Distinctive Beef Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Salad oil
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
  1 1/2 lb Stew meat
      1    Clove garlic
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Meat broth
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 ts Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Water
      1 pk English peas
      1    Jar diced pimento, drained
 
     Heat salad oil and pepper in large skillet.  Add meat to skillet
  and brown on all sides, occasionally stirring.  Add garlic, salt and
  meat broth, cover and cook abt. 1 1/2 hrs. or until meat is tender.
  Blend together cornstarch, soy sauce and water, add mixture to
  skillet, blend well.  Add peas and pimento.  Cook until thichened.
  Serve over fluffy rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-Sour Beef Stew (Lafayette, La.)
 Categories: Main dish, Soup/stew, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Chuck steak, cut 1" cubes
    1/2 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 ts Salt
           Celery, sliced (optional)
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 lg Onion, sliced
      1 c  Carrots, drained
 
     Combine all ingredients, except meat and carrots.  Simmer about 30
  minutes.  Brown meat and remove from skillet.  Pour simmered sauce
  into pan drippings of skillet.  Place meat in baking dish.  Pour
  sauce over. Bake at 325 F. for abt. 30 min.  Add carrots and bake
  abt. 20 min. more. Garnish with chopped parsley or sprigs, pimento or
  make a rice ring of 3 cups cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Soup/stew, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Whole crabs, cleaned
      4    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Cayenne pepper
      1 c  Rice
    1/2    Bunch parsley, chopped
      4    Stalks celery, fine chop
      2 lg Onions, chopped fine
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      8 c  Water (more or less)
 
     To clean crabs, remove shell, gills and break in halves or
  quarters and wash clean.  Remove all fat from body and shell and save
  for later.  Heat oil to medium, add flour and make roux, stirring
  constantly until dark brown.  Add onions, stirring constantly for 5
  minuters or until onions become clear.  Add celery and garlic, saute
  1 minute.  Add water, 1 cup at a time, stirring well until desired
  consistency is reached.  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Drop in bay
  leaf.  Add remainder of water and bring to boil.  Reduce heat
  immediately.  Cover and simmer for 20 min. or until gravy thickens.
  Add crabs and simmer for 15 min. more.  Add crab fat and parsley and
  continue to simmer for 10-15 minutes, or until the crabs are fully
  cooked, and season gravy.  The desired taste appears and matures
  during the last 10 minutes of cooking.  Cook rice accorting to
  directions.
   Serve stew over rice.  Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 4 Hour Beef Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Cubed stew beef
      2    Onions, quartered
      1 cn Tomato sauce (small)
      5    Carrots, cut in chunks
      2 tb Tapioca
           Potatoes
 
     Mix all ingredients, except potatoes , and place in casserole.
  Cover top with raw potatoes.  Cover and bake at 250 F. for 4 hrs.
  
  C. Younker--Shreveport, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 tb Salad oil
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
  8 1/2 c  Beef broth or water
    1/2 c  White vinegar
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes, peeled, cut in>>
           Large chunks  (4 cups).
      1 c  Sliced onion
      3 lb Stew beef, cut 1" cubes
      1 tb Sugar
      1    Bay leaf
      2 c  Carrots, sliced
      1 ts Dill weed, crushed
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Flour
 
     Heat oil in lage saucepan.  Add onion and garlic, saute until
  tender, about 5 minutes.  Remove with slotted spoon.  Add beef, saute
  until browned on all sides.  Return onion to pot .  Stir in broth,
  vinegar, sugar, salt and bay leaf.  Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and
  simmer covered about 1 1/2hrs. until tender.   Add potatoes, carrots
  and dill. Simmer covered until meat and vegetables are tender, about
  20 minutes. Refrigerate overnight.  Remove layer of fat.  Simmer,
  stirring frequently, until heated through.  Mix flour and 1/4 cup
  water.  Stir in stew, mix well. Cook and stir about 2 minutes until
  thickened.
  
  A.O.--New Iberia, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Soup/stew, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
      1 lb Shrimp, shelled, cleaned
      3 c  Hot water
           Salt to taste
           Tabasco sauce to taste
      1 c  Cooking oil
      1 c  Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Bell pepper, chopped fine
    1/2 c  Green onion & tops, chopped
      1 ts Garlic powder OR>>>
      1    Clove garlic, minced
 
     Make roux of flour and oil.  Brown in iron skillet.  Add onion,
  bell pepper and green onion.  Add hot water and simmer on low heat.
  Add remaining ingreds. and cook on low heat until done.
  
  P.R.--Terrebone Parish, Houma, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Apple Salad
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 pk Lemon jello (small)
      1 cn Applesauce
    1/2 c  Cinnamon hearts
      1 pk Cream cheese(small),softened
      3 tb Canned milk
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
     Place candies in 2 cups boiling water, boil until candies melt.
  Dissolve jello in boiling water.  Add applesauce and lemon juice and
  1 cup cold water.  Chill until set.  Mix cream cheese and milk.
  Spread on top of jello.  Cut into squares.  Serves 8-10.
  
  C.C.--Lake Charles, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Applesauce Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Red jello (small pk.)
      2 tb Red hot heart candies
  1 1/2 ts Lemon flavor
      1 c  Boiling water
      1    Env. Knox gelatine
      1 cn Applesauce (#2 can)
 
     Drop red hots in boiling water and simmer until dissolved.  Pour
  over jello and dissolve.  Dissolve Knox gelatine in small amount of
  cold water and add to jello mixture.  Stir in applesauce and lemon
  flavor.  Cover and congeal in 'fridge.  Serve in squares on lettuce
  leaf topped with mayonnaise.  Very good with ham or turkey in place
  of cranberry sauce.
  
  C.C.--Lake Charles, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Delight Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pk Apricot jello
    2/3 c  Water
      1 cn Crushed pineapple, undrained
  1 1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    2/3 c  Sugar
      2    Jars apricot baby food
      1 cn Condensed milk, chilled
      1 pk Cream cheese (8 oz.)
 
     Combine jello, sugar and water, bring to a boil and dissolve jello.
  Remove from heat, stir in fruit; set aside to cool.  Combine milk and
  cream cheese, beat until smooth.  Stir in jello mixture, add nuts.
  Pour into mold or bowl and refrigerate.
  
  S.K.A.--Metairie, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Kernel corn, drained
      1    Jar diced pimentos, drained
      1 lg Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Vinegar
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 cn Green beans, drained
      1 cn Ranch style beans, drained
      1 lg Bell pepper, chopped
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Oil
 
     Mix ingredients together and refrigerate at least 24 hrs. before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Rice Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Rice-a-Roni, chicken flavor
     12 sm Stuffed olives, sliced
    1/2    Green pepper, chopped fine
      4    Green onions, chopped fine
      2    Jars marinated artichokes>>
           Including olive oil.
 
     Cook Rice-a-Roni as directed.  Add remaining ingredients and toss.
  May be eaten hot as avegetable, or chilled and served on a lettuce
  leaf as a salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Carrots, shredded
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Apples, chopped
    1/3 c  Seedless raisins
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
 
     Combine carrots, apples, raisins and mix well.  Add the salt and
  mayonnaise.  Chill and serve on nest of lettuce.
  
  C.C.--Lake Charles, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Copper Penny Carrot Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn Sliced carrots
      1    Sliced bell pepper
      1 cn Tomato soup
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      1    Onion, sliced in rings
      1    Clove garlic, chopped
    1/2 c  Salad oil
    2/3 c  Vinegar
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Drain carrots, pour into large bowl.  Add onions and bell pepper
  into bowl.  Combine remaining ingredients, bring to boil. Pour over
  carrot mixture, mix well and referigerate.  The longer it marinates,
  the better it is.
  
  R.S.--Opelousas, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Salad Supreme
 Categories: Salad, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Raspberry jello
      1 pk Lemon jello
    1/3 c  Mayonnaise
      1 c  Minature marshmallows
      2 c  Boiling water
      1 cn Cherry pie filling
      1 pk Cream cheese (small)
      1 cn Crushed pineapple & juice
    1/4 c  Finely chopped nuts
    1/2 c  Whipping cream, whipped OR>>
      1 c  Dream Whip
 
     Dissolve raspberry jello in 1 cup boiling water.  Stir in pie
  filling. Turn into 9 x 9 x 2 inch lightly oiled baking pan.  Chill
  until partially set.  Dissolve lemon jello in 1 cup boiling water.
  Beat together cream cheese and mayonnaise, gradually add lemon jello.
  Stir in undrained pineapple.  Whip the whipping cream or use Dream
  Whip.  Fold into lemon mixture with marshmallows.  Spread atop cherry
  layer.  Sprinkle nuts over top.  Chill until set.  Cut into squares
  to serve.  Good as salad or dessert.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Salad I
 Categories: Salad, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Chicken
      6    Eggs, hard boiled
           Salt & pepper
      4    Ribs celery
           Garlic powder
           Mayonnaise
 
     Boil or bake chicken.  Take meat from bones and mince finely.
  Chop eggs and celery.  Combine all ingredients.  Sprinkly with garlic
  powder, salt and pepper.  Add mayonnaise to taste and mix and chill.
  
  Variations:
     Ham Salad--substitute 3 cns. deviled ham for chicken.
     Shrimp Salad--substitute 2 lbs. cleaned boiled shrimp for chicken.
     Tuna Salad--substitute 2 cns. water pack tuna for chicken.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Salad Ii
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked chicken, diced
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      4    Hard boiled eggs, diced
      2 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 ts Curry powder
 
     Mix all ingredients together and serve on lettuce leaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Salad Iii
 Categories: Salad, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Lemon juice
      4 c  Finely chopped cooked chick.
    3/4 c  Salad dressing
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 c  Diced apples
  1 1/2 c  Celery, finely chopped
      1 c  Green grapes, halved
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 pk Cream cheese (8 oz.)
    1/4 c  Salad dressing
 
     Sprinkle lemon juice over apples.  Add remaining ingredients, mix
  lightly.  Press mixture into 1 1/2 qt. bowl.  Chill several hours.
  Unmold on serving platter.  Frost (recipe follows) and garnish as
  desired.
  
     Combine softened cream cheese and salad dressing, mixing well
  untill blended.  Frost chicken salad using small metal spatula.
  
    Hint:  To unmold salad from bowl more easily, line bowl with
  plastic wrap before filling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Christmas Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Lime jello
      2 c  Pineapple juice
      1 pk Cream cheese (small)
      1 c  Pecans, chopped
      1 c  Boiling water
     12 lg Marshmallows
  1 1/2 tb Salad dressing
      1 pk Lemon jello
 
     Prepare lime jello with boiling water and 1 cup pineapple juice.
  Pour into square Pyrex dish, 10 x 10 inches.  Refrigerate 3-4 hrs.
  until firm. Combine lemon jello, remaining cup of pineapple juice and
  marshmallows. Heat until melted and dissolved, cool.  Add remaining
  ingredients, mix well.  Pour over lime jello and refrigerate.
  
  C.G--Lafayette, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coke Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Black Cherries
      1 cn Crushed pineapple, drained
      1 pk Cherry jello
      1 sm Bottle coke
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
 
     Drain cherries.  Heat cherry juice and dissolve jello in hot juice.
  Cool.  Add other ingredients and refrigerate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Congealed Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     20    Marshmallows
      1 c  Grated cheddar cheese
    1/2 pt Whipping cream OR>>>
           Cool Whip
      2 c  Boiling water
      1 pk Lime jello
      1 cn Crushed pineapple, drained
      1 c  Chopped pecans
      1 sm Bottle maraschino cherries
 
     Melt marshmallows in water.  Add lime jello.  Set to soft congeal.
  Fold in whipped cream or Cool Whip and remainder of ingredients and
  refrigerate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cool Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 sm Carton cottage cheese
      1 lg Can crushed pineapple, drain
      1 lg Bowl cool whip
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      1 pk Lime jello
 
     Mix Cool Whip, cottage cheese, pineapple and nuts together.
  Sprinkle dry jello over mixture.  Toss and refrigerate.  Can be
  served immediately. Strawberries and strawberry jello can be used in
  place of pineapple and lime.  Both are very colorful, especially at
  Christmas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pk Cherry jello
      2 c  Raw cranberries
      1    Orange with peel
      1    Orange without peel
      2    Med. size apples
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
     Fix jello by directions on box.  Grind cranberries, apples and
  oranges.
   Add sugar and nuts, mix with jello after it congeals.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Different Potato Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Potatoes
      1 c  Chopped onions
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/2 c  Prepared mustard
           Salt & pepper to taste
      2    Eggs, hard cooked
      1 c  Chopped hearts of celery
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
 
     Boil and chop potatoes.  Add onions,  celery, salt and pepper.
  Separate egg whites and yolks.  Chop whites into potato mixture.  Mix
  yolk with vinegar, mashing yolk to dissolve.  Add mustard and
  mayonnaise, mixing thoroughly.  If too thick, add more vinegar to
  form sauce and pour over potato mixture.
  
  W.W.--Thibodoux, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 sl Bacon, cooked, crumbled
      1 c  Celery, diced
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 c  Cooked rice
      1 c  Cooked English peas
    1/4 c  Diced pimento
    1/4 c  Fresh chives, minced, OR>>
           Green onion tops
           Stuffed olives (optional)
 
     Combine all ingredients, except olives; toss.  Garnish with olives
  if desired.  Chill.  Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ponderosa Cole Slaw
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Mild honey
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      1 ts Celery seed
      1 c  Diced green pepper
      1 c  Diced celery
      1 c  Wine vinegar
      1 ts Salt
      1 lg Head cabbage, chopped fine
 
     Combine honey, vinegar, onion, salt, celery seed in small saucepan.
  Bring to boil, reduce heat, simmer 5 minutes; cool.  Pour cooled
  dressing over prepared vegetables; toss lightly.  Cover, chill
  several hours, or overnight.  Stir several times while chilling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Slaw
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Can evaporated milk
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      4 c  Shredded cabbage
      1    Stalk celery, diced
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Celery seed
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise or Salad dressing
      1    Carrot, shredded
 
     Stir together milk, vinegar, sugar, salt, celery seed, pepper and
  mayonnaise.  Chill until ready to serve.  Combine cabbage, carrot and
  celery.  Chill.  To serve: pour dressing mixture over cabbage
  mixture. Toss to coat well.  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buttermilk Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
  2 1/4 tb Parsley flakes
    1/2 ts Accent or MSG
      2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Onion powder
  1 3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
     Combine all ingredients, mixing well.  Chill at least 4 hours.
  Dressing will keep 2-3 weeks in 'fridge.  Recipe can be halved,
  doubled, etc. easily.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Celery Seed - Honey Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Paprika
      4 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Celery seed
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/3 c  Honey
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Grated onion
      1 c  Salad oil
 
     Mix dry ingredients.  Add honey, lemon juice, vinegar and onion.
  Pour oil slowly into mixture, beating constantly.  Serve with fruit
  salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salad Dressing
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Minced onion
  1 1/3 tb Accent
    2/3 c  Vinegar
           Dash of Tabasco sauce
      3 tb Yellow mustard
  1 1/3 tb Salt
      1 ts Lea & Perrins sauce
  2 1/3 c  Salad oil
 
     Place onion, mustard, Accent, salt and vinegar in mixer.  Mix
  until well blended.  Add remaining ingredients and stir in gradually.
  Mix well and place in 1-quart container.  Store refrigerated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Salad Mix
 Categories: Dressing
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10    Bell peppers, cut up
      1 qt Green stuffed olives
      1 cn Crushed oregano
      1 pt Capers
           Seasoning salt to taste
      1    Stalk celery & leaves,cut up
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 oz Parsley flakes
           Cooking oil
 
     Cover all ingredients with cooking oil and let stand for 16 days.
  Spoon over lettuce and tomatoes for each serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple and Yam Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Sweetpotato
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Apple pie filling
      3 tb Butter
           Chopped nuts
      2 cn Whole sweet potatoes, drain
           Nutmeg
 
     Combine apple pie filling and sweet potatoes in buttered
  casserole. Dot with 3 tbs. butter.  Sprinkle lightly with nutmeg.
  Bake in preheated 325 F. oven for 30 minutes, or untill bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Artichokes I
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Fresh, whole artichokes
  3 1/2 c  Italian seasoned crumbs
      4    Cloves garlic, minced
    3/4 c  Italian cheese, grated
           Olive oil
 
     Sut off stems of artichokes and across 1" of top leaves.  Remove
  prickly tip of other leaves by clipping off top.  Rinse thoroughly in
  cold water, drain.  Press top, cut side down, firmly to force leaves
  to open slightly. Pull leaves gently to open far enough to stuff.
  Combine bread crumbs, garlic and grated cheese, mix thoroughly.  Set
  artichoke, bottom down, and pour stuffing into cavities formed by
  leaves.  Stuff as manyh leaves as possible.  Put abt. 1/2  of salted
  water and 1/4 cup olive oil in pot, bring to gentle boil.  Place
  chokes in pan, bottom down, and cover pot tightly.  Cook abt. 20
  minutes.  The chokes will steam and stuffing will be moistened.
  Remove cover and dribble olive oil onto stuffing until thoroughly
  moistened.  Re-cover and continue to cook 20 min. longer or until
  bottom leaves pull away easily.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Artichokes Ii
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Artichokes
    1/2 lb Swiss cheese, grated
    1/4 lb Mozzarella cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped fine
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped fine
      1 lb Crabnmeat
      4 oz Hot pepper cheese, grated
           Salt & Pepper & Red pepper
    1/4 c  Bell pepper, chopped fine
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
      1    Stick butter
      2    Eggs, well beaten
 
     Wash artrichokes and cut off tips.  Boil until tender.  Drain.
  Saute celery, bell pepper and onions in butter.   Remove from heat.
  Add crabmeat and grated cheeses.  Add bread crumbs and eggs.  Mix
  well.  Clean out heart of artichokes and stuff with crab mixture.
  Stuff each leaf. Wrap in foil and bake at 375 F. for 35 min.
  
  A.F.R--Terrebonne Parish, Houma, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Good Bar-B-Q Beans
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Campbell's bbq beans
    1/4 c  Sweet relish
      2 pk Sugar twin
    3/4 ts Dry mustard
      2 tb Log Cabin buttered syrup
 
     Mix ingrediends and cook slowly over low flame in thick skillet
  until all juice is absorbed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Pork and beans
      1 cn Red beans, drained
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Mustard
    1/4 c  Water
      1 cn White lima beans, drained
      1 lg Onion chopped fine
      3 tb Bacon drippings
      3    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1 tb Syrup
           Salt & Pepper to taste
 
     Fry onion and garlic in bacon fat until limp.  Mix with remaining
  ingredients.  Pour into casserole dish; bake 1 hr. at 350 F.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean and Cheese Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 ts Chili powder
      1 cn Pork & beans (16 oz.)
      2 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
    1/4 c  Diced green pepper
      2 tb Butter or oleo
      3 c  Elbow macaroni, cooked
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
           Green pepper rings
 
     Cook onion, green pepper and chili powder in butter until tender.
  In casserole, combine onion mixture with beans, macaroni, cheese,
  milk and salt.  Bake at 400 F. for 30 minutes or until hot.  Garnish
  with green pepper rings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pennsylvania Dutch Green Beans
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 sl Bacon, diced
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Packed brown sugar
      1    Small onion, sliced
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 cn Cut green beans (#303)
      1 tb Vinegar
      1    Hard cooked egg, chopped
 
     Cook bacon until crisp, remove from skillet.  Add onion to 1 tbs.
  bacon drippings, cook until tender.  Blend in cornstarch, salt and
  mustard. Drain beans, reserving 1/2 c. liquid.  Stir in reserved bean
  liquid. Cook, stirring constantly until thickened and translucent.
  Blend in sugar and vinegar.  Add beans.  Heat through.  Top with
  crumbled bacon and chopped egg.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snappy Green Beans
 Categories: Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Hot sausage, cut thin
      2 cn Cut green beans (#303)
      2    Green onions, sliced thin
    1/2 ts Parsley
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Oil or shortening
           Salt to taste
 
     Fry sausage in oil until slightly browned.  Add green onions.
  Cook 1 minute longer.  Add liquid from string beans, thyme, salt and
  parsley. Cook until sausage is very tender.  Add green beans and cook
  5 minutes longer. Fresh green beans may be used if desired.  Boil
  beans until tender. Use water from boiled beans and prepare as for
  canned beans.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Red Beans New Orleans Style
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Red beans
      3    Ribs celery, chopped
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
      1    Stick butter
      5 tb Catsup
      2 tb Parsley flakes
           Salt & pepper to taste
      2    Med. onions, chopped
    1/2    Bell pepper, chopped
      1 lb Pickle meat OR
    1/2 lb Salt pork, cubed
      5 lg Carrots, peeled and halved
      4 qt Water, more or less
 
     Soak beans overnight.  Cook in large pot with water until beans
  start to soften.  Saute onions, celery bell pepper, garlic, cubed
  meat and parsley. Add to beans.  Add carrots, butter and catsup.
  Cook on low heat for another hour or until tender.  Remove 1 cup of
  beans and mash with fork or potato masher.  Return to pot and
  continue to simmer untill thickened. Serve with hot steamed rice.
  Tuesday is red beans and rice day all over Lousiana.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli-Rice Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pk Frozen, choppped broccoli
      1 cn Cream mushroom soup
      1    Jar Cheez-whiz (small)
      1 cn Water chestnuts, chopped
      4 c  Cooked rice
      1 cn Cream chicken soup
 
     Combine and mix all ingredients, heat in 350 F. oven until hot and
  bubbly.
  
  J.R.--Monroe, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli-Rice Casserole Ii
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pk Chopped broccoli OR
      1    Bunch fresh broccoli
      1    Stick oleo
      1 c  Cooked rice
           Paprika
    1/2 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1    Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
      1 c  Chopped mushrooms
      1 sm Jar Cheez-Whiz
    1/2 cn Cream of Mushroom soup
 
     Saute onion, celery and mushrooms in oleo until soft.  Set aside.
  Heat soups and Cheez Whiz.  Add rice and broccoli to vegetables.  Add
  soup mixture.  Sprinkle with paprika.  Bake at 350 F. for 25 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Au Gratin
 Categories: Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Head of cabbage
      1 c  Grated American cheese
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
           Oleo
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Wash cabbage, cut into quarters and steam until tender.  Drain.
  Cut slices off quarters and lay in greased baking dish.  Sprinkle
  with salt, pepper, grated cheese and top with bread crumbs.  Dot with
  butter.  Larger amounts can be made by repeating layers.  Bake at 400
  F. until crumbs are browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Red Cabbage with Apples
 Categories: Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Head red cabbage
      2    Cooking apples(Granny Smith)
      2 tb Sugar
    1/3 c  Red wine
    3/4 ts Flour
    1/2 c  Seedless grapes
      1 sm Onion, chopped
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 tb Butter
           Small amt. vinegar
 
     Pare and slice apples.  Shred cabbage, cook covered in small
  amount of boiling salted water for 8 to 10 minutes.  Add small amount
  of vinegar to preserve color.  Drain, reserving 1 cup liquid.  Place
  layer of cabbaage in butttered baking dish.  Combine grapes, apples,
  onion, sugar and salt. Arrange in alternate layers with cabbage,
  making top layer cabbage.  Add cabbage liquid and wine.  Dot with
  butter.  Cover and bake at 375 F. for 1 hour.  Shake lour over top,
  mix lightly with fork and bake 15 minutes longer.
  
  R.B.--Shreveport, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Brisket
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Beef brisket whatever size
  1 1/2 c  BBQ sauce, or Woody's >>>
           Cooking sauce.
    1/2 sm Bottle liquid smoke
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Rub salt and pepper into sach side.  Pour liquid smoke over each
  side of brisket.  Wrap completely and place in large cooking pan.
  Bake in 200 F. oven for 4-5 hrs., or until tender.  Unwrap foil and
  drain.  Pour on BBQ sauce, over and under meat.  Return wrapped
  brisket to oven for 45 min. When serving, slice ACROSS grain.
  
  SLOW COOKING IS THE SECRET FOR TENDER BRISKET.
  
  M.B.--Shreveport, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Webster's North Carolina Bbq Ribs
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 c  Water
     12 ts Powdered mustard
      3 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 c  Vinegar
      6 ts Salt
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Ground cumin
 
     This is enough sauce for 9 lbs. of ribs (for 6 persons) allowing 1
  1/2 lbs of pork ribs per person.
     Adjust the fire to a "five-second" temperature; that is, you
  should be able to hold you hand where the meat will be for 5 seconds.
     Cooking Time:  Skinny ribs-50 min.; average ribs-60 min.; meaty
  ribs- 70 min.  Every 2-3 minutes, stir the sauce to keep it from
  settling, baste the ribs and turn them.  The sauce should run out 4-6
  min. before the end or the cooking time so that the last turn on each
  side should be "dry." Check the temperature frequently and keep it as
  even as possible for the entire cooking time.  A covered grill is
  desirable for temperature controll and also improves the flavor by
  smoking the meat as the the cooking proceeds. Thee success of this
  recipe depends on slow cooking at a moderate temperature, with
  frequent basting.  Grease flare-ups should be suppressed with water
  to avoid charring.
     In some parts of North Carolina, a liquid resembling water is used
  for refreshment, fueling cars and other purposes.  Do not
  accidentally use it for suppressing the fire unless you want to
  finish your meal in Georgia.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Beef Short Ribs
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Beef short ribs
      2    Med. onions, sliced
      1 tb Packed brown sugar
      1 pk Frozen lima beans
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Vinegar & lemon juice
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
      4    Med. carrots, cut in >>>>>
           3 x 1/2" strips
      2    Bay leaves
 
     Trim excess fat from ribs.  Brown in skillet and drain off excess
  grease.  Add water, onions, vinegar, salt, pepper and bay leaf. Heat
  to boiling, reduce heat, cover and simmer for 1 hour.  Add frozen
  beans, carrots, brown sugar and ginger.  Heat to boiling, reduce heat
  and simmer until vegetables are tender, abt. 45 minutes.  Remove
  vegetables, make gravy.  Gravy:  1 1/2 c. beef broth; 3 tbs. flour;
  1/3 c. water.
     Mix ingredients and cook until smooth and thick.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef or Venison Hash
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Bacon drippings
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      3 c  Cooked, chopped beef or>>
           Venison roast.
      2    Med. potatoes cut in 16 pcs.
      2 tb Flour
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      3 c  Beef broth
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 tb Chili powder
 
     Brown onion and potatoes in bacon fat.  Add four and brown.  Add
  broth and other ingredients.  Let simmer until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ribbon Bologna Wedges
 Categories: Appetizer, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Jar cream cheese with olive>
           And pimento.
           Sliced stuffed olives
     12 sl Bologna
    1/4 c  Finely chopped pecans
           Colored toothpicks
 
     Soften cream cheese at room temperature.  Spread each slice
  bologna with cream cheese, sprinkle with pecans.  Make 2 stacks with
  6 slices of bologna in each.  Cover with plastic wrap.  Chill well.
  Cut in 16 wedges, each stack.  Garnish with sliced olive and insert
  colored toothpick.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breaded Cutlets
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Egg
      1 tb Water
      2 ts Minced chives
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Soft bread crumbs
           Lemon wedges (optional)
      2 tb Dijon style mustard
      6 sl Cooked turkey, chicken or
           Roast beef or pork roast.
           Cooking oil
 
     Cut meat slices 1/4" thick.  Beat egg, mustard, water and chives
  together.  Dredge meat slices in flour, dip in egg mixture, coat with
  crumbs.  Fry meat slices in 1/4" hot cooking oil in skillet until
  golden on both sides, turning once.  Add more oil, if needed.  Serve
  with lemon wedges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chop Suey
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Round steak
      2 lb Pork chops
      5    Ribs celery, chopped
      2 cn Chicken broth
           Soy sauce
           Bacon drippings or oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 cn Bean sprouts
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
           Small amount of flour
           Hot steamed rice
           Crackers
 
     Cube and brown stak and chops.  Sprinkle with flour while browning.
  Saute chopped celery, onions and garlic in small amount of bacon
  drippings or cooking oil.  Add to meat and mix.  Pour chicken broth
  over and simmer 30-40 minutes, stirring occasionally.  Just before
  serving, mix in bean sprouts and soy sauce to taste.  Serve over hot
  cooked rice and crackers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Meal Scrapple
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lg Onions, chopped
    1/2 ts Shortening
      1 c  Corn meal
      1 sm Can mushrooms
    1/2 tb Butter
      2 lb Ground round steak
      1 lg Can tomatoes
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
     Brown onions in fat, add meat.  Add corn meal, tomatoes,
  mushrooms, salt and pepper.  Cook for 2 hrs. in skillet over slow
  fire.
  
  U.W.M.--Shreveport, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elephant Stew
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Elephant
      2    Rabbits
           Salt & pepper
           Brown gravy
 
     Cut elephant into bite sized pieces.  Cover with brown gravy.
  Cook over low heat about 4 weeks.  This will serve 4,200 people.  If
  more are expected, the 2 rabbits may be added, but do this only if
  necessary, as most people do not like to find hare in their stew.
  
  B.B.--Shreveport, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Frank" Dinner
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Bunch carrots, cleaned,cut
      1 c  Chicken broth
           Salt
      1    Bay leaf
      4    Small potatoes,pared,halved
      1 sm Head cabbage, quartered
      8    Frankfurters
 
      Parboil potatoes and carrots for 10 minutes.  In large skillet,
  put the broth, bay leaf and parboiled vegetables.  Cover and cook
  over medium heat 5 minutes.  Arrange the cabbage in the skillet,
  cover and cook another 5 min.  Sprinkle vegs. with salt.  Add franks
  and simmer 5-1- min. longer or untill vegetables are tender.  Serve
  from skillet, spooning broth over vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Ham Balls
 Categories: Appetizer, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground cooked ham
    3/4 c  Soft bread crumbs
    3/4 c  Unsweetened pineapple juice
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Maple flavored syrup
           Hot cooked rice
 
     Combine ham, ground beef, bread crumbs and milk.  Mix well.  Shape
  into eighteen 1 1/2" meat balls.  Place in 8 x 8 x 2 inch baking
  dish.   Bake uncovered at  350 F. for 20 minutes.  Combine pineapple
  juice, syrup and cornstarch in small saucepan.  Cook and stir until
  thickened and bubbly. Pour over meatballs.  Bake 20 min. longer.
  Serve over rice.  Makes 6 servings.  To use as party food on a
  buffet, make balls in minature size, serve in sauce and use
  toothpicks for serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham N' Cheese Meltaway Sandwiches
 Categories: Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Chipped ham
      1    Onion, minced
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1    Doz. hot dog buns
      6    Hard boiled eggs
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
           Cheese
 
     Mix all ingredients, except cheese and buns, in large container.
  Fill hot dog buns with mixture.  Add strip of cheese to each bun.
  Wrap each bun in foil.  Heat in 425 F. oven to warm thoroughly and
  melt cheese. These sandwiches can be frozen. Allow approximately 20
  minutes in oven when taken from freezer.
  
  P.P.--Gretna, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polynesian Ham Bake
 Categories: Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    5 lb. canned ham
           Whole cloves
      2    Med. bananas, cut 2" pcs.
      3 tb Cream cheese, softened
    1/2 c  Pineapple preserves
      1 cn Peach halves (29 oz.)
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
    1/2 cn Water
      1 tb Toasted coconut
 
     In shallow roasting pan, bake ham at 325 F. for 1 hour.  Drain off
  fat. Score.  Spread with 1/4 c. pineapple preserves.  Stud with
  cloves.  Bake 15 min.  Spread peaches and bananas with 2 tbs. of
  preserves and arrange around ham.  Bake 15 min. more.  Remove ham and
  fruit to warm serving platter.  On top of stove, in same roasting
  pan, combine 1 tbs. fat drippings from ham, soup, water, cream
  cheese, coconut and remaining preserves.  Heat, stirring to loosen
  browned bits.  Serve with ham.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Rice with Bacon
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Cold, cooked rice
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 lb Bacon, fried crisp, crumbled
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Salt
      3    Eggs, scrambled very soft
      2    Green onions & tops, chopped
 
     Stir-fry rice in hot oil for 1 minute.  Add sugar, salt and soy
  sauce. Stior until heated through.  Add eggs, green onions, and bacon
  pcs.  Stir to mix and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Fried Rice
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pork chops or steaks
    1/2    Med. onion, chopped
  2 1/4 c  Water
      4 tb Soy sauce
    1/2    Med. bell pepper, chopped
  1 1/2 c  Long grain rice
      4 tb Oil
 
     Brown pork in oil.  Chop in bite size pieces.  Add onion and bell
  pepper to oil.  Stir, add rice and let fry until light golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jenny's Creole Hamburgers
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground meat
    1/2    Onion, chopped
    1/2    Bell pepper, chopped
      1 cn Chicken gumbo soup
    1/2 cn Water
      2 tb Catsup
      1 tb Prepared mustard
 
     Scramble meat and brown with onions and bell peppers, drain.  Add
  remaining ingredients.  Simmer until thickened. Serve on large
  hamburger buns.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Liver Louisianne
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 sl Bacon, diced
    1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Diced green pepper
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/8 ts Garlic salt
      2 lb Beef liver, slice 1/2" thick
      1 lg Onion, sliced
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (16 oz.)
    1/4 ts Chili powder
           Cooked rice
 
     Cook bacon in frying pan until crisp, remove.  Combine flour and
  salt. Dredge liver in flour mixture and brown lightly on each side in
  bacon drippings.  Pour off remaining drippings.  Add onion, green
  pepper, tomatoes, cayenne pepper, chili powder and garlic salt.
  Cover tightly and simmer 20 minutes.  Thicken gravy if desired.
  Sprinkle bacon over top. Serve liver and sauce over hot cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Love Birds for Two
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 cn Mandarin oranges, drained>>>
           Reserve syrup.
    2/3 c  Instant rice
      2    Cornish hens
      1 c  Orange juice
      2    Envelope onion soup mix
           Water
      2 tb Finely chopped walnuts
      2 ts Cornstarch
 
     Chop enough Mandarin oranges to equal 1/3 cup.  Reserve remainder
  for garnish.  Combine syrup with enough water to equal 2/3 cup.
  Bring syrup and water mixture to boil, add 1 envelope soup mix and
  rice.  Remove from heat.  Let stand covered for 5 minutes, add
  chopped oranges and walnuts. Stuff hens with rice mixture, use
  toothpick to close openings.  Place hens in shallow baking pan and
  bake 30 minutes in preheated 375 F. oven. Combine remaining soup mix,
  cornstarch and orange juice.  Bring to a boil, then simmer, stirring
  constantly, until slightly thickened, about 1 minute. Brush glaze on
  hens, continue baking, basting frequently with glaze 30 minutes or
  until hens are tender.  Garnish with reserved Mandarin oranges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Tamale Meat Balls
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 lb Ground pork
      4    Cloves garlic, chopped
      2 cn Whole tomatoes (#303)
  1 1/2 c  Corn meal
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Chili powder
    3/4 c  Tomato juice
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Re-grind meat.  Mix meats, corn meal, flour, garlic, salt, juice
  and pepper.  Form into approx.  200 small meat balls (#100 food
  dipper works well).  Mix tomatoes, chili powder, salt and pepper to
  taste.  Bring to boil.  Add meat balls, lower heat and simmer for 2
  hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Muscatrolle
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      3 lg Onions, chopped
    1/2 cn Tomato sauce
      1 lb Cheddar cheese, grated
      1    Stick oleo
      1 cn Mushrooms (4 oz.)
      1 cn Tomato soup
      1 pk Shell macaroni (8 oz.)
      1 cn Pimentos
           Water, if needed
 
     Slowly fry onions in butter, not too brown.  Cook meat in dry
  skillet until crumbly.  Mix all other ingredients, except cheese and
  macaroni, with meat and onions.  Cook over low heat until well
  blended.  Add a little water if necessary.  Cook and drain macaroni.
  Add macaroni to meat mixture and simmer.  Add cheese to meat and
  simmer until cheese is melted. Long, slow cooking of meat mixture
  brings out flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Stuffed Pork Chops
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Med. onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Herb seasoned stuffing mix
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1    Stalk celery, chopped
      1 c  Kernel corn, drained
    1/4 ts Poultry seasoning, or thyme
      4    Thick boneless pork chops
 
     Slit pockets in chops.  Cook onions and pepper in butter.  Mix
  corn, crumbs (stuffing) and seasoning in bowl, pour onion mixture
  over and mix lightly.  Stuff chops.  Place in shallow pan.  Bake 1
  hour at 350 F.
  
  J.P.--Baton Rouge, La.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Perfect Pork Roast
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Rolled pork roast
      1    Env. au jus mix
           Turnips, carrots, potatoes
      2    Cloves garlic
           Flour
           Salt and pepper
           Mushrooms (optional)
 
     Stuff garlic into roast.  Pat flour, salt, pepper on roast,
  coating well all over.  Place roast in pan and bake for 1 hr. at 425
  F.  Mix up au jus gravy mix according to directions, pour over roast.
  Arrange peeled and prepared vegetables around roast, and bake
  additional 1 1/2 to 2 hrs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Sausage Jambalaya
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Small chicken
    1/2 c  Oil
      2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/2 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      1 c  Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 c  Green onions, chopped
      2 lb Smoked sausage:1/4"slices
      3 c  Long grain rice
      8 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Chopped garlic
           Salt to taste
           Tabasco sauce to taste
 
  Cut chicken (2-3lbs) into 2 inch pcs., rinse, drain, dry.  In heavy
  high- walled chicken fryer over med. heat, brown the chicken in oil,
  stirring the meat around so it won't stick.  After the chicken has
  browned, remove it from the pot.  Then  add onions, bell pepper,
  parsley, and green onions, and saute untill the onions are clear.
  Stir in the sausage, rice, stock, garlic, chicken, salt and pepper.
   Continue cooking until nearly all the water has boiled out, then
  reduce heat to low, cover, and let simmer until the rice is done,
  about 1 hr. DON'T LIFT LID FOR AT LEAST 1 HR.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baby Back Ribs with Mustard Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer, Cajun/creol, Meat
      Yield: 20 servings
 
     10 lb Baby back pork ribs,separatd
           Salt to taste
           Cayenne pepper to taste

MMMMM-----------------------MUSTARD SAUCE----------------------------
      1 c  Mustard-your choice
    1/2 c  Honey
      1 c  Dry white wine (opt)or stock
 
  Preheat oven to 300 F.  Sprinkle salt and pepper on the ribs, the
  place them in a large baking pan, and bake in oven until tenter,
  about 1 hr. Drizzle with the mustard sauce.
  
  Yield: 10-20
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Mcnuggetts
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Appetizer, Fish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DRENCH--------------------------------
      1    Med. egg
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground cayenne pepper

MMMMM---------------------------DREDGE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Corn FLOUR (not corn meal)
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Ground cayenne pepper
      2 ts Salt or to taste
    1/4 ts Garlic POWDER
    1/2 ts Onion powder
      2 lb Fish fillets, cubed 1 inch
      1 qt Oil for frying
 
  Preheat oil to 350 F.  In med. size bowl, beat egg, milk, salt, and
  pepper together.  In another med. size bowl, combine  all dry
  ingreds. Dip nuggets into drench mix.,drain and coat well in dredge.
  Carefully place few nuggets at a time into hot oil.  Fish will float
  when golden brown and done.  Abt 2 min.
  
  Best to use elec fryer with basket.
  
  Drain onto paper towells, serve right now with tartar or coctail
  sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Round Steak Etouffee
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Au Gratin
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      1 c  Chopped mushrooms
      1 tb Chopped garlic
      2 c  Milk
      1 tb Worstershire sauce
      1 lb Crab meat
      1 lb Fish, cut into bite size pc.
      1 lb Shrimp,cleaned,deveined
      1 c  Grated mozzarella cheese
      1 c  Grated cheddar cheese
           Salt to taste
           Louisiana hot sauce to taste
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  in a large saucepan over med. heat, heat oil,
  the add the flour and make a light brown roux.  Add the onions,
  parsley, and green onions, and saute until the onions are clear.
  Stir in the mujshroooms and garlic, and cook 10 min. more.  Slowly
  stir in the milk and Worscestershire.  Continue to stir until the
  mixture begins to thicken, the gradually stir in the seafood,
  cheeses, salt, and hot sauce. Turn into a large casserole dish -spray
  with food release first-cover, and bake at least 1 hr.  Remove cover,
  pour lemon juice over and bake abt. 20 min. more, so top gets brown
  and crusty.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli and Rice Casserole
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Uncooked rice
      1 c  Broccoli
 
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Beans and Rice--New Orleans Style
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Dried red beans
           Water
      1 c  Dry red wine (opt)
      3    Large onions, chopped
      1 tb Garlic chopped
    1/2 c  Finely chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions
    1/4 c  Bacon drippings
      1    Ham bone and scraps (hocks)
     10 c  Ham stock or water
           Salt to taste
           Tabasco sauce to taste
 
  Prepare the beans the night before.  Clean and pick through beans to
  remove foreign objects.  Rinse several times in water to make sure
  beans are absolutely clean.  In a lge. mixing bowl, combine the
  beans, with enough water to cover by 1 inch, and the wine, onions,
  garlic, parsley and green onions.  Soak overnight, covered. Next
  morning, saute the hambone and scraps in the bacon drippings, in an 8
  qt. pot. Pour the beans, with soaking water and all the seasonings,
  into the pot, then add enough stock to cover the beans by 2 inches;
  bring to a boil, then reduce the heat. Cover and simmer for 2 hrs.,
  stirring occasionally so the beans won't stick and burn.  Season with
  salt and hot sauce when the beans are tender. To make beans thicker,
  remove about a cup full, mash, and return to the pot. Stir in.  Serve
  over hot cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maque Chou with Pork
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped bell pepper
      1 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      3 c  Fresh or canned kernel corn
      2 tb Chopped garlic
      1 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2 lb Pork-cut 1"cubes
           Louisiana hot sauce to taste
           Salt to taste
 
  Over med . heat in large skillet, heat the oil and then saute the
  onions, bell pepper, and parsley until the onions are clear.  Add
  corn and stir, then the garlic, stock and water and seasonings and
  stir again.   Reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer for 30 min.,
  then add the pork, cover and let simmer another hour, stirring
  occasionally.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boudin
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Appetizer, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 c  Fine chopped onion
    1/2 c  Finely chopped green onion
    1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh parsley
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      3 c  Cooked rice
      5 c  Chopped cooked pork
           Cayenne pepper tpo taste
           Salt to taste
           Sausage casings
 
  Over med. heat in a lge. saucepan, heat oil and saute the onions and
  green onions until clear. Add parsley, water, and garlic, and cook
  another 10 min., stirring occasionally.   Add the rice and blend
  well, mix in the chopped pork, and season with the pepper and salt.
  With a sausage stuffer, stuff the pork mixture into  natural pork
  casings and tie in 4 to 5 inch links.  T serve, heat the links in a
  pan, with a little water, after pricking a few holes in the casing to
  keep it from bursting.
  
  Yield: about 3 lbs. sausage.  Hint:  rinse casings and keep wet while
  stuffing.  Casings are generally packed in salt. Check
  local"boucherie"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven Fried Chicken--Cajun Style
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------PREHEAT OVEN TO 350 F------------------------
      3 lb Chicken pieces
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 c  Oil or Crisco
      2 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 c  Finely chopped bell pepper
      1    Clove garlic,  minced
      2 lb Canned peeled tomatoes
    1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh parsely
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Tabasco sauce to taste
 
  Rinse chicken well-remove skin.  In flat pan, mix together flour,
  salt, pepper; roll chicken pcs. in the flour.   Heat oil over med.
  high heat in lge. skillet.  Brown the meat in the hot oil, then
  remove and place  in roasting pan.  Over med heat in same skillet and
  oil in which chicken was fried, add the onions, pepper and garlic,
  and saute abt. 20 min. Add the tomatoes and parsley and stir in the
  salt and hot sauce.  simmer about 20 min., stirring frequently.  Pour
  the sauce over chicken, cover roaster, and bake for at least 1 hr. or
  until chicken is tender and no longer pink at the bone.  Serve with
  hot cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbequed Shrimp and Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Bbq/grill, Chicken, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 ts Minced Garlic
    1/2 ts Ground Cumin
    1/2 lb Medium Shrimp
    1/2 ts Onion Powder
    1/4 c  Melted Butter
      1 lb Boneless Chicken Breast
 
  powder, cumin and melted butter.  Marinate shrimp and chicken while
  preparing grill.  String shrimp and chicken onto separate skewers.
  Cook about 5 inches above hot coals, allowing 5 minutes for shrimp
  and 10 minutes for chicken.  Turn once or twice while cooking and
  baste often with remaining marinade.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken with Wine and Herbs
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Frying Chicken
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Garlic Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Oregano
      1 c  Dry White Wine
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  pieces on all sides.  Pour off excess oil.  Add wine and seasonings.
  Cover and simmer for 30 to 40 minutes or until chicken is tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sunday Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 x  Frying Chickens
      1 pk Wild and Long Grain Rice
    1/3 c  Dry White Wine
      1 pk Dry Onion Soup Mix
      1 cn Cream of Mushroom Soup
      1 cn Water
    1/2 c  Instant Rice
 
  pan; wild rice, instant rice, mushroom soup, water, wine and half the
  onion soup mix.  Arrange chicken pieces on top of rice mixture and
  sprinkle with remaining onion soup mix.  Cover dish tightly with
  heavy foil. Bake for 2 1/2 hours at 350 degrees.  Do not peek.  When
  done, you may add a little water or wine if rice is too dry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornbread Dressing
 Categories: Dressing, Poultry, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 c  2-day old crumbled cornbread
      3 c  Stale bread or toast
      2 c  Chicken stock
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped green onion
           Salt to taste
           Cayenne pepper to taste Or
           Tabasco sauce to taste
 
  Preheat oven to 325 F.  Mix the crumbled cornbread and bread together
  in a large mixing bowl, pour in the stock, and set aside.   Over
  medium-high heat in a med. sized skillet, heat the oil and saute the
  parsley, celery, onions, and green onions until the onions are clear,
  then pour into the bowl with the bread.   Add  the salt and pepper or
  hot sauce and mix well. Pour into a 9 x 9 inch greased casserole
  dish, or stuff a hen or turkey, and bake for 60 minutes, or untill
  bird is done. Yield: enough for large hen and a little extra.  If
  you like, add drained chopped oysters, 1 lb. thin sliced smoked
  sausage, or both.  Add chopped walnuts if you like.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Dressing
 Categories: Dressing, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      2 tb Oil or shortening
      1 c  Cooked giblets
      2 c  Giblet stock
      2 c  Cooked rice
      3 c  Crumbled dry bread
      1 pt Chopped oysters & juice
           Salt to taste
           Cayenne pepper to taste
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  In a lge. saucepan, saute celery, onions, and
  parsley in the oil until the onions are clear.  In a large mixing
  bowl, combine the giblets and stock with the cooked rice, bread, and
  oysters w/juice; mix well.  Add the sald and pepper. Pour into a
  greased medium-sized baking dish and bake for 45 minutes, or stuff a
  large bird and bake until the bird is done.
  
  Yield: about 10 cups, or enough to stuff a large hen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Louisiana Red Sauce
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Chili powder
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 c  Minced onion
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped celery with leaves
      2    Fresh hot peppers, chopped
      1 cn Crushed Ital. tomatoes (28oz
      3    Bay leaves
  1 1/2 ts Thyme leaves
    1/4 ts Black pepper
           Salt to taste
           Tobasco sauce to taste
 
  In NONALUMINUM saucepan, melt the butter. Add the chili p[owder and
  cood over low heat until the chili powder foams, about 2 minutes.
  Add the garlic, onion, green pepper, celery, and hot pepers.  Saute
  over med heeat until the vegetables are soft, 4-5 min.  Add the
  tomatoes, bay leaves, thyme and black peppper.  Bring to a boil, then
  simmer for 30 min. to blend flavors.  Taste and adjust seasonings.
  Serve hot or at room temp. Freezes well. This rich table sauce is a
  product of Creole influences. It is hot, rich and delicious--esp.
  w/fish, chicken and meats. Also excellent on rice. Yield:  Approx. 3
  cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chimichangas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      4 tb Chili powder
      2    Garlic cloves
      1 lb Chuck stew meat
           Water to cover
    1/2    Cinnamon stick
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Whole allspice
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
           Oil for deep frying
      8    Large flour tortillas
      3 tb Chunky style Picante sauce
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Chimichangas are deep-fried burritos.  the beef filling here can be
  used in reg. burritos, empanadas, or tacos.
  
  In heqvy saucepan, heat the oil.  Add the chili powder and garlic and
  cook until the chili powder foams, abt. 2 min.   Add water to cover,
  the cinnamon stick, oregano, allspice, salt, and pepper.  Simer until
  the meat is very tender, abt. 2 hrs. Cover the pot for the 1st hr. of
  cooking, then remove the cover and let the cooking liquid reduce.
  The meat should be tender enough so that  you can easily shred it
  with a fork.  Heat the oil in a deep pot to 350 F.  While the oil
  heats, roll the chimichangas. First steam the tortillas over boiling
  water for abt. 1 min. This soften the tortillas and makes them easy
  to handle.  Fill each tortilla with abt. 3 tbs. of shredded meat.
   Spoon abt. 1 tsp. of the salsa on the meat, and top with abt. 1 tb.
  of sour cream.  Roll the tortilla as you would an eggroll and secure
  with 2 toothpicks.  When oil is hot, fry the rolled tortillas, 1 at a
  time, for abt 2 min. ea.  Drain and serve at once.  Pass extra salsa
  and sour cream.  Recipe doubles, triples, etc. easily. ten
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Harissa Sauce
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Sweet red peppers
      4    Fresh hot  peppers
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Corriander-ground
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1    28 oz. can Ital.Plum tomatoe
      1 tb Lemon juicete
      3 tb Chopped parsley
           Salt to  taste
 
  Roast peppers by placing them under the broiler amd broiling until
  skin blisters.  Keep turning and broil for abt. 3 min. per side.
  Place pepppers in a paper bag and allow them to steam for abt. 10
  min. to loosen the skins.   Remove from bag, peel away the skins, and
  remove the seeds. Mince the peppers finely..Melt butter in a
  nonaluminum saucepan. Over med. heat, saute peppers, coriander and
  cumin until the peppers are softened, abt. 5 min.  Add tomatoes and
  lemon juice and simmer briefly to blend flavors, 5-10 min.  Stir in
  parsley.  Add salt to taste.  Serve hot or at room temp.  This sauce
  will keep for at least 1 wk. in the 'fridge. Freezes well.  Yield:
  abt. 4 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Pepper Chicken
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 tb Ground cumin
      1 ts Paprika or cayenne
      1 ts Salt
  3 1/2 lb Chicken-cut up
      2 tb Oil
      2 c  Harissa Sauce (#45)
    1/4 c  Water
 
  In bowl, combine flour, cumin, paprika, and salt.  Rinse the chicken
  and pat dry  with paper towells.  Dredge in the flour to coat well.
  Reserve the extra flour.  In lge. Dutch oven, heat lil.  Brown
  chicken on both sides, abt 5 min. per side.  Drain off any excess
  oil.  Add the sauce, cover, and simmer over low heat for 45-60  min.
  Test for doneness by pricking drumstick.  Chicken is done when juice
  runs clear and flesh is very tender.   Remove chick. to a warmed
  platter, leaving the cooking liquids in the pan.  Combine 2 tbs. of
  the reserved flour with 1/4 cup water.  Stir to make smooth paste.
   Bring cooking liquids to boil, stirring frequently to prevent
  scorching.   Stir in the flour and cook, stirrring constantly until
  the sauce thickens.  Remove from the heat. Pour sauce over chicken
  and serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Barbeque Sauce
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      6    Chipolte chiles
      1 c  Boiling water
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion, diced
      4    Garlic cloves, minced
  1 1/2 ts Groun cumin
  1 1/2 ts Ground thyme
      1    12 oz. cn tomato paste
    1/2 c  Brn sugar
  1 1/2 c  Cider vinegar
  1 1/2 ts Dry mustard (Coleman's)
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Tabasco sauce
 
  Combine chiles and boiling water.  Soak for 1 hr.   Then remove the
  stems and seeds and chop.   In large nonaluminum saucepan, melt
  butter.  Saute onion, garlic, cumin, and thyme oveer low hea until
  onions are soft and translucent, abt. 5 min.  Add the chiles, soaking
  water, and remaining ingreds.  Bring to boil.  Partially cover and
  simmer for 1 hr.  Taste and adjust the seasonings.  Can be stored in
  'fridge for 3 wks.  Freezes well.
  
  Yield:  About  5 cups
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbequed Ribs
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Country style pork ribs
      2 c  Mexican BBQ sauce  OR
      2 c  BBQ sauce of your choice
 
  Pour sauce over ribs and let marinate overnight, or at least 5 hrs.
  The longer the better. Preheat oven to 350 F. Place ribs in single
  layer in baking dish.  Pour the extra sauce over ribs. Cover tightly
  with foil and bake for 1 hr. Meanwhile, prepare fire in grill. Over
  med hot coals, place ribs on the grill, basting generously with
  juices from the bakin dish. Grill, turning frequently and basting
  generously, for 15-20 min., until the ribs are well-done, but not
  dried out. Serve with extra sauce on side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Mustard
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Cajun/creol, Salsa/sauce, Spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------ANN NEWTON SWMG52B--------------------------
      2 oz Dry mustard
      1 tb Flour
      3 tb White-wine vinegar
      1 tb Honey
      1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
      1 tb Hot pepper flakes
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Dried thyme
      1 ts Coarse black pepper
      1 ts Paprika
 
  In a bowl, combine dry mustard and flour.  Gradually stir in 1/4 cup
  cold water; let stand 15 minutes. Stir in remaining ingredients; mix
  thoroughly. Use in sandwiches. Yields 1/2 cup. MM Format Norma Wrenn
  npxr56b
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  Chocolate Almond Zucchini Bread
 Categories: Dessert, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs,Large
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Salad Oil
      2 oz Chocolate,unsweetened
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
      2 c  Zucchini,Grated
      3 c  Flour,All-Purpose
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon,Ground
    1/4 ts Baking Powder
      1 ts Baking Soda
      1 c  Almonds,Chopped
 
  1-Beat eggs until lemon-colored. Beat in sugar and oil. Melt
  chocolate over hot water and stir into egg mixture along with vanilla
  and zucchini. 2-Sift flour with salt, cinnamon, baking powder and
  baking soda. stir into zucchini mixture; add almonds. Mix well.
  3-Bake in two well-oiled 9x5-inch loaf pans in preheated 350 degree
  oven for one hour and twenty minutes or until done. Cool in pans 20
  minutes and then turn out onto rack. Cool thoroughly before slicing.
  Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Chili with White Beans
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Chili, Chilies
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2    Lge. bell peppers, seeded
      3 tb Salad oil
      2 c  Green onions & tops sliced
      8    Cloves garlic minced/pressed
      4 ts Ground cumin
      6 cn Tomatillos (16oz.each)
      4 cn Diced green chiles (7oz.ea.)
      6 cn Italian white beans, drained
      3 lb Pork shoulder trimmed of fat
      4 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 c  Lightly packed cilantro leaf
 
  Thinly slice bell pepper crossswise.  Heat oil in a 10 qt. pot over
  med-hi heat; add bell peppper, onions, garlic, and cumin.  Cook,
  stirring, until onions are soft.  Mix in tomatillos (break up with
  spoon) and their liquid, chiles, beans, pork oregano, and red pepper.
  Bring to boil; reduce heat and simmer until pork  is tender when
  pierced (abt 2 hrs.) For a thin chili, cook covered; for thicker
  chili, cook uncovered to desired consistency. Stir occasionally.
  Stop here.  Cover.  Refrigerate for 3 days.  Reheat before
  continuing.  Reserve a few cilantro leaves; chop remaining leaves.
  Stir choppped cilantro into chili; garnish with reserved leaves.
  Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken & Sausage Jambalaya
 Categories: Main dish, Relish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Chicken, 2-3 lbs.
      2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Fine chopped parsley
      2 lb Smoked Sausage
      8 c  Chicken Stock
           Salt to taste
    1/2 c  Veg. Oil
    1/2 c  Chopped bell pepper
      1 c  Fine chopped Green onion
      3 c  Long Grain Rice
      1 tb Chopped Garlic
           Cayenne pepper to taste
 
  Cut chicken into 2 inch pcs., rinsed, and dried.  Set aside.  Slice
  smoked sausage into 1/4" pcs.   In a heavy, high-walled skillet over
  med. heat, brown the chicken in the oil, stirring the meat around so
  it won't stick. After the chicken has browned,, remove from pot.
  Then add onions, bell pepper, parsley, and green onions, and saute
  until the onions are clear. Stir in the sausage, rice, stock, garlic,
  chicken, salt, and pepper. Continue cooking until nearly all the
  water has boiled out, then reduce the heat to low, cover, and let
  simmer until the rice is done, about 1 hr. DO NOT LIFT THE LID FOR AT
  LEAST 1 HOUR.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Santa Fe Chili
 Categories: Chili, Tex/mexican, Main dish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 oz Dried New Mexico chiles
      3 c  Water
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2    Large onions, chopped
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
      5 lb Boneless chuck-cut 1" cubes
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Cilantro, chopped
      2 ts Ground cumin,cloves,oregano
      2 ts Rosemary & Tarragon
      2 cn Tomatoes-28 oz.ea.
      1 cn Beef broth (14 1/2 oz.)
 
  Rinse chiles; discard stems and seeds. Break chiles into pieces.
  Combine chiles and water in 2 1/2  to 3 qt.pan.  Bring to a boil over
  high heat; then reduce heat, cover , and simmer  until chiles are
  soft (abt. 30 min.) Puree chiles and liquid in blender--strain thru
  wire strainer using spoon. Discard residue, set puree aside.
  
  Heat oil in a 6 to 8 qt. pan over med. heat; add onions and garlic and
  cook, stirring often, until onions are soft.   Sprinkle meat with
  flour. Add meat and chile puree to pan and cook, stirring, for 5 min.
  
  Add cilantro, cumin, cloves, oregano, rosemary, tarragon, tomatoes
  (break up with spoon), and their liquid, and broth .   Bring to a
  boil over high heat; reduce head and simmer, uncovered, until meat is
  very tender when pierced (3-4 hrs), stirring often.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Mexico Red Bean Chili
 Categories: Chili, Tex/mexican, Soup/stew, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Lean grnd. beef
      1    Large chopped onion
      2    Jars canned pimentos (7oz.)
  3 1/2 c  Beef broth
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (28 oz.)
      1 ts Ground allspice
      2 ts Ea. cumin & corriander(grnd)
      4 ts Oregano leaves
    1/2 c  New Mexico chile
      3 cn Kidney beans, drained (#303)
 
  Crumble beef into 5-6 qt. pan over high heat. Cook, stirring, until
  beef is well browned.  Lift our meat and set aside. Discard all but 2
  tbs. of the drippings.  to drippings, add onion and fook, stirring
  often, until onion is soft.
  
  Meanwhile, puree pimentos and their liquid in blender.  Return beef
  to pan with pimento puree, broth tomatoes (break up with spoon) and
  their liquid, all spice, cumin, corriander, oregano, ground chile,
  and beans.  Bring to boil; then reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 45
  minn..  Uncover and continue to simmer until thickened to you liking;
  stir often.
  
  Note:  Substitute roasted red pepper in place of pimento if desired.
  Proceed as directed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rio Grande Chile
 Categories: Chili, Main dish, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Pintos-directions on pkg.
      2 cn Beer--12 oz.
      8 lb Bone-in beef chuck
      2 tb Salad oil (approx. amt.)
      4    Large onions, chopped
      1    Head garlic, chopped
  1 1/2 tb Chili powder
  1 1/2 tb Paprika
      4 ts Ground cumin
      1 tb Oregano leaves
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Corriander, ground
    1/2 ts Red pepper (cayenne)
    1/4 ts Allspice
      1 cn Chicken broth
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
      2 tb Bourbon whiskey (opt)
           Salt to taste
 
  Soak pintos overnight, then cook as directed.  Meanwhile, rinse
  chiles; discard stems and seeds.  Break chiles into pieces.  Combine
  chiles and beeer in a 4 to 5 qt. pan.  Bring to a boil over high
  heat;then reduce heat, cover, and simmer until chiles are soft.
  Puree chiles and liquid in blender. Rub puree through wire strainer
  with back of spoon--discard residue, set puree aside.
  
  Cut beef from bones.  Trim and discard excess fat; cut meat into 1"
  cubes.
  
  Heat oil in an 8 to 10 qt. pot over med heat.  Add meat, abt. 1/4 at a
  time, and cook until well browned on all sides.  Lift out meat and set
  aside.
  
  Add onions and garlic to pan.  Cook over med. heat, stirring often,
  until onions are soft.  Add  chili powder, paprika, cumin, oregano,
  sugar, coriander, red pepper, and allspice.  Cook, stirring for 2
  min..  Add beef and any juices that have accumulated., chile puree,
  broth, tomato sauce, and whiskey.  Stir well, then bring to a boil
  over high heat; reduce heat, cover, and simmer stirring occasionally,
  until beef is very tender to bite (abt. 2 hrs.).  Ladle chili into
  individ. bowls; top with beans and condiments.
  
  Condiments:  Arrange in separate bowls 3 cups ea.: shredded cheese,
  diced tomatoes, sliced green onion tops, sour cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chorizo Bread
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Bread
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  5 1/2 oz Chorizo
      3 c  Flour (not self-rising)
      3 tb Grated parmesan cheese
      2 tb Brown sugar-packed
  4 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Fennel or caraway seeds
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Baking soda
      1    3 oz. cream cheese softened
      1    8 oz. cream cheese softened
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Butter or Margarine, melted
 
  If necessary, remove sausage casing.  Coarsely chop sausage; you
  should have 1 cup.  Set aside.  In a bowl, combine flour , Parmesan
  cheese, sugar, baking powder, fennel seeds, salt, and baking soda.
  
  In another bowl, beat cream cheese until smooth; then stir in milk.
  Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well.  Stir in butter and chorizo.
  Add to flour mixture, stirring just to moisten.  Spoon batter into a
  greased 5 x 9 inch loaf pan.
  
  Bake in 375 F. oven until bread browns and begins to pull away from
  pan sides ( abt. 55 min.).  Let cool in pan on rack for 5 min., then
  turn out. Cut bread into thick slices and serve warm.  Store at room
  temp. for 1 day. Freeze for longer storage.  Thaw wrapped. Reheat
  uncovered in 350 F. oven. Yield: 1 loaf
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Texmex Red Snapper
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive or salad oil
      1    Large onion, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      4 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cinnamon, ground
    1/4 ts Cloves, ground
      5 c  Peeled,seeded,chopped tomato
  1 1/2 ts Each: water & lemon juice
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2    Jalapenos,seeded,chopped
      2 tb Capers
  5 1/2 lb Red Snapper,cleaned, scaled,
           Head removed
    1/3 c  Pimento stuffed green olives
           Sliced thin.
      3 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
 
  Heat oil in wide frying pan over med heat; add onion and garlic and
  cook, stirring often, until onion is soft.  Stir in sugar, salt,
  cinnamon, cloves, and tomatoes.  Cook, stirring, over high heat until
  a thick sauce forms (abt. 8 min.).
  
  Blend together lemon juice, water, and cornstarch; stir into tomato
  mixture.  Cook until mixture boils and turns clear; remove from heat.
  Stir in chiles and capers. Rinse fish, pat dry. Place a 24 inch sheet
  of foil crosswise in a large roasting pan. Grease foil lightly (spray
  with Pam), then place fish on foil; pour hot tomato sauce over fish.
  Bake, uncovered, in a 400 F. oven until fish flakes when prodded with
  fork in thickest part (abt. 45 min). Baste frequently with sauce
  during last 15 min. of baking.
  
  Skim watery juices off sauce with a spoon; then stir sauce to blend.
  Lift foil, fish , and clinging sauce and slide onto a platter;
  drizzle with remaining sauce in pan.  Garninsh with olives and
  cilantro.
  
  To serve, cut fish to bone, then lift off each serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Salsa Spareribs
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6    Large, firm, ripe tomatoes
      8    Mild green chiles (Anaheim)
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
           Salt to taste
      8 lb Pork spareribs
           Lime slices (opt.)
      1 c  Sour cream
      4    Limes-cut into wedges
 
  Make a good charcoal fire in grill.  When coals are almost gray,
  spread to make even layer.
  
  Set tomatoes and chiles on lightly greased grill 4-6" above coals.
  Cook, turning as needed, until chiles are charred on all sided and
  tomatoes are hot and streaked with brown.
  
  Add small amount new charcoal, and mound for indirect heat.
  
  To make salsa, chop grilled tomatoes and chiles; discard stems and
  seeds. Place tomatoes and chiles and their juices in a bowl.  Stir in
  vinegar, cilantro, and garlic; season to taste with salt.  Spread
  some of the salsa evenly over both sides of ribs.
  
  Place ribs, meat side up, on grill directly above drip pan (overlap
  ribs to fit on grill if necessary).  Cover varbecue and adjust
  dampers as necessary to maintain an even heat.  Cook, bastin
  occasionally with some of the remaining salsa, until meat near bone
  is no longer pink; cut to test (1-1 1/2 hrs.)
  
  To serve, cut ribs into 2 to 3  rib portions; garnish with lime
  slices , if desired.  Pass remaining salsa, sour cream, and lime
  wedges at table.
  
  To eat, top ribs with salsa, sour cream, and a squeeze of lime.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flank Steak Santa Fe
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Chorizo sausages,casing
           Removed.
  1 1/2 c  Unseasoned croutons
    1/3 c  Chopped green onions & tops
    1/3 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      2    Eggs--lightly beaten
      2 lb Flank steak
      3 tb Salad oil
      1    12 oz. jar green chile salsa
 
  Crumble chorizo into wide frying pan.  Cook over med. heat, stirring,
  until meat is browned; then drain off fat.  Remove from heat and stir
  in croutons, onions, parsley, and eggs.
  
  Butterfly steak by slicing in half horizontally almost all the way
  through. Spread open and pound to 1/4" thick.  Spoon chorizo mixture
  over half the steak; fold ends in, roll to enclose, and tie securely
  with string.
  
  Heat oil in frying pan over med-high heat; add meat and brown evenly
  on all sides.  Transfer to an ungreased 2 qt. baking dish and pour
  salsa over all. Cover and bake in a 375 F. oven until meat is tender
  when pierced (abt 2 hrs.).  Remove string.  Skim and discard fat,
  then spoon sauce over meat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shredded Beef Enchiladas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless beef chuck
    1/4 c  Water
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
  1 1/2 c  Beef broth (canned is fine)
      2 tb Chili powder
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
           Salad oil
      1    Small onion, chopped
      2 cn Diced green chiles (7oz.)
      1 tb All purpose flour
      2 c  Sour cream
      3 c  Shredded jack cheese
           Salt
     12    Corn tortillas
 
  Trim and discard most of fat from beef, the place in 5 to 6 qt. pan
  with water.  Cover and cood over med. heat for 30 min.  Uncover and
  cook, turning as needed, until liquid evaporates and meat is well
  browned.
  
  In a bowl, combine vinegar, broth, chili powder and 1 tsp. of cumin;
  pour over meat.  Continue cooking over med. heat until meat is very
  tender and apart easily.  Let meat cool; shred and mix with pan
  juices.
  
  In lge. fry pan, combine 2 tbs. oil, onion, chiles, and remaining 1/2
  tsp. cumin.  Cook over med heat, stirring occasionally, until onion
  is soft. Stir in flour; then blend in 1 cup of the sour cream an stir
  until simmering.  Remove from heat and blend in 1 cup of the cheese.
  Season to taste with salt. Set aside.
  
  In wide frying pan, heat 1/2" oil over med. heat.  When oil is hot,
  add 1 tortilla at a time and cook, turning once, just until limp (10
  seconds max.) Drain on paper towels and keep warm.  Spoon 1/3 cup
  sour cream sauce and 1/4 cup shredded beef down center of each
  tortilla; roll to enclose. Set enchiladas, seam side down, in a 10 x
  15 inch baking pan.  Stop here if preparing for next day. Cover with
  plastic wrap and refrigerate.
  
  Bake uncovered in 375 F. oven until hot in center.  Sprinkle with
  remaining 2 cups cheese evenly on top.  Return to oven until cheese
  is melted.
  
  Use wide spatula to serve.  Pass sour cream to spoon on individ.
  servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Menudo
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Soup/stew
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  3 1/2 lb Beef tripe,rinsed and cut>>>
           Into 1" squares
  3 1/2 lb Beef shanks
     10 c  Water
      2    Medium onions, chopped
     10    Cloves garlic, chopped
      2 ts Cumin
           Red Chile Puree (see #79)
      3    Lge. cans hominy, drained
           Salt to taste
           Condiment suggest. follow
 
  In 8 to 10 qt pot combine tripe, beef shanks, water, onions, garlic,
  and cumin.  Bring to a boil over high heat; then reduce heat heat,
  cover, and simmer until tripe is very tender to bite (abt. 7 hrs.)
  Meanwhile make Red chile puree.  Set aside.
  
  Skim and discard fat from liquid. Lift beef shanks from  pan ; discard
  bones and fat.  Cut meat into chunks and return to pan along with
  chile puree and hominy.  Season to taste with salt.  Bring to a boil;
  then reduce heat, cover and simmer for 30 min. to blend flavors.
  
  CONDIMENTS--Arrange in separate bowls: 3 limes or lemons, cut into
  wedges; 1/2 cup fresh oregano leaves; 1 cup fresh cilantro sprigs; 1
  med. onion chopped; and 1/4 cup crushed dried hot red chiles or 5
  fresh jalapenos, seeded and thinly sliced.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Chile Puree
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      9    Red New Mexico chiles OR
      9    California chiles
           Chiles should be dried
 
  Place chiles in bowl with 3 1/2 cups warm water.  Let stand until
  softened. Discard all but 1 1/4 cups liquid.  In a blender or food
  processor, pruee chiles with liquid until smooth; scrape down sides
  of container once or twice.
  
  Use wherever Red Chile Puree is called for.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Pork Tenderloin with Plum Glaze
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------PLUM GLAZE------------------------------
      1 c  Plum preserves
    1/4 c  Dijon country style mustard
    1/8 c  Honey
    1/8 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Vinegar (try rice vinegar)
      2 ts Fresh celery leaves;minced
 
  Combine all ingredients in medium saucepan over low heat, stirring to
  mix until preserves and sugar melt and all are blended well. May need
  whisk to blend in brown sugar. COOKING: Prepare barbecue in usual
  manner to grill pork tenderloins. Use 1 tenderloin per person. Dip
  pork in glaze and place on grill, brushing 1/2 glaze on to this time.
  Depending on heat of fire and size of pork loins, grill approximately
  15 minutes each side. When turning to second side, brush on remaining
  glaze. (Good with a hearty red wine..i.e. CabSauv)From: The Wine
  Press.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fire Roasted Garlic Heads
 Categories: Spread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  Take a thin slice off head of garlic exposing the cloves. Place on
  sheet of foil and sprinkle with water. Fold to close tightly. Do this
  with 4 heads of garlic; 1 packet per head. Place foil packages in the
  coals before adding the grill.  Let cook while meat is grilling. When
  meat and vegetables are finished, remove packages and serve one per
  person. Spread on French bread, vegetables or however the spirit
  moves you. From:The Wine Press.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Chicken Breasts with Salad
 Categories: Poultry, Salad, Vegetable, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Boneless chicken breasts
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
      2    Garlic cloves ; pressed
    1/4 ts Dried oregano
           Salt
           Pepper

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
        sm Radicchio
        sm Butterhead Lettuce
        md Belgian Endive
      2 tb Dry red wine
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Balsamic vinegar
    1/2 c  Salsa (purchased or homemade
 
  1. Remove skin from chicken breasts and discard. Whisk together red
  wine, olive oil, balsamic vinegar, garlic, oregano, salt and pepper
  in a shallow bowl just large enough to hold the chicken breasts. Add
  the chicken breasts and marinate 30 minutes, turning chicken every 10
  minutes.
  
  2. Heat grill to medium hot and grill chicken 4 to 6 minutes on each
  side or until no longer pink on the inside.
  
  3. Wash radicchio, lettuce and endive; pat dry.  Cut greens into long
  strips and place in a medium bowl . Combine red wine, olive oil,
  vinegar, salt and pepper in a small bowl and whisk until smooth. Pour
  over salad greens and toss lightly.
  
  4. To serve, divide salad greens among 4 plates and place a grilled
  chicken breast on top.  Garnish with salsa. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tex-Mex Hash
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Meat, Rice
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1    Green pepper; chopped
    1/2 c  Rice; uncooked
      2 ts Salt
      3    Onion; sliced
      1 cn Tomato; whole (medium can)
      1 ts Chili powder
           Pepper
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Pan fry ground beef until light brown in
  skillet. Drain fat. Add onions & peppers and cook until onion is
  tender. Stir in rest of ingredients and heat until warm. Pour in a
  casserole dish, cover, bake for 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Poblano Pie
 Categories: Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 lg Poblano chilies; fresh
      1    Garlic clove; halved
    1/2 lb Monterey jack -OR-
           Chichuhua cheese; cubed
    1/4    Yellow Onion; coarse chop
      6    Eggs
    3/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Sour cream
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
 
  Make the Crema Fresca ahead of time:  mix Cream and Sour Cream
  together. Cover and let stand at room temp. until thickened, 8 hours
  or overnight. Chill until ready to use. Char the Chili Peppers over a
  gas flame until blackened on all sides. Wrap them in a plastic bag
  and let stand for 10 minutes to steam. Peel and core the Chilies.
  Remove seeds, rinse and pat dry. Preheat oven to 350~. Generously
  Butter a 9" pie pan (preferably porcelain or stoneware with 2"
  sides). Open up Chili Peppers and arrange around sides of pan skin
  side down, point toward center of pan, extending about 1/2" above
  rim. Cover bottom of pan with Chilies. Finely grate cheese with Onion
  and garlic in a processor using on/off pulses, about 30 seconds. Add
  Eggs and Salt. Process until smooth, stopping to scrape down the
  sides, about 15 seconds. Mix in the Crema Fresca (the Mexican
  equivalent of creme fraiche). Pour this filling over the Chilies.
  Curl the edges of the Chilies over the filling. Bake until golden
  brown and a knife inserted in the center comes out clean, 45-50
  minutes. Cover Chili edges with foil to prevent burning, if
  necessary. Cool for 5 minutes before cutting. Serve hot or at room
  temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chart House Mud Pie
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 pk Nabisco chocolate wafers
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
      1 qt Coffee ice cream
  1 1/2 c  Fudge sauce
 
  Crush wafers and add butter, mix well.  Press into 9" pie plate.
  Cover with soft coffee ice cream. Put into freezer until ice cream is
  firm. Top with cold fudge sauce (it helps to place in freezer for a
  time to make spreading easier).  Store in freezer approximately 10
  hours.
  
  Presentation: Slice mud pie into eight portions and serve on a chilled
  dessert plate with a chilled fork. Top with whipped cream and slivered
  almonds.
  
  Gaye's Notes:  I first had mud pie on my honeymoon in
  
  Honolulu in 1975. The Chart House was kind enough to share this
  fabulous (and easy!) recipe with us.
  
  Shared by Gaye Levy, DTXT63A on Prodigy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Laredo
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-------------------------
      3 lb Chicken; cut up
           <<<OR>>>
           Chicken breast
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Margarine
    1/2 c  Onion; chopped
      1 c  Seedless raisins
    1/2 c  Sliced pimento-stuffed
           Olives
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 cn Chicken stock
 
  Dry Chicken pieces and sprinkle with garlic powder. In large skillet,
  saute chicken and onions in butter until browned. Reduce heat.
  Sprinkle raisins, olives, and cinnamon over chicken. Then pour stock
  over chicken. Cover and cook for 25 or 30 minutes. Serve with rice,
  if desired. This is the winner of a Chicken Reader Recipe Contest
  submitted by Linda Carter of Wortham, Ms.  Carter says of the recipe,
  "I've been making this since 1966 and our family love it. I've passed
  this recipe on to many friends. Their first question is 'olives,
  cinnamon, and raisins?' but when they taste it, it's a wonderful
  surprise." Source: Reader Recipe Contest, Texas Co-op Power P. O. Box
  9589 Austin, Tx 78766
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham Balls
 Categories: Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------HAM BALLS------------------------------
      1 lb Ground ham
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 lb Sausage
      2 c  Bread crumbs
           Onions

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    3/4 c  Brown sugar (packed)
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Dry mustard
 
  Mix and form into balls the size of golf balls. Pour sauce over balls
  and bake about 1 hour at 350F.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Ultimate Chocolate Chip Cookie
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 30 servings
 
    3/4 c  Butter flavor shortening
  1 1/4 c  Light brn. sugar, packed
      2 tb Milk
      1 tb Vanilla
      1    Egg
  1 3/4 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Semi-sweet choc. chips
      1 c  Pecan pieces
 
  Heat oven to 375 F.  Combine shortening, brown sugar, milk and
  vanilla in large bowl.   Beat at med. speed of elec. mixer untill
  creamy.  Beat egg into creamed mixture.   Combine flour, salt and
  baking soda and mix into creamed mixture until just blended.   Stir
  in chocolate chips and pecan pieces.  Drop by rounded tablespoonsful
  3" apart on UNGREASED cookie sheet. Bake at 375 for 8 to 10 min. for
  chewy cookies (cookies will appear moist-do not over bake), or 11 to
  13 mnin for crisp cookies.  Cool on baking sheet 2 min.  Remove to
  rack to cool.
  
  Yield:  2 1/2 doz. cookies
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elegant Chocolate Log, Part 1
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------ROSE RAY  DSJN00A--------------------------
  3 1/4 c  Confectioners' sugar;
           - sifted, divided
      5 tb Flour; all purpose, sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
      5 tb Cocoa
      6    Eggs
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
  1 1/4 ts Vanilla extract
      1 tb Water
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
     12 lg Marshmallows; or 3/4 cup
           - miniature marshmallows
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Sugar; granulated
      3 tb To 4 tablespoons light cream
    1/4 c  Pecans; chopped
 
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breast of Chicken Aloha (From Greenbrier Hotel)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Breasts of Chicken
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Coconut milk (divided)
    1/2 c  Shredded coconut
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Clarified butter
      2    Pineapple rings for garnish
      1 c  Cooked wild rice
           Sauce for Chicken Aloha
           See #100
 
  Season chicken with salt, allspice, and freshly ground pepper, then
  wet it with coconut milk.  Let it settle for a few hours. Toast
  coconut until light brown. One hr. before using, make egg batter of 2
  eggs and 1/3 cup of coconut milk.  Roll chicken in the toasted
  coconut, then dip in egg batter, and fry in clarified butter in a
  skillet until golden brown, approx. 25 min.  Serves 2.
  
  To make coconut milk: Grate the meat from a quarter of a fresh
  coconut. Pour 1 cup hot milk over it and let stand 1 hour.  Strain
  through 2 thicknesses of cheesecloth and squeeze dry.  Makes 1 cup.
  
  To clarify butter:  Melt butter in small pan over low heat.  Pour off
  the clear golden liquid and discard the milky sediment remaining in
  the pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauce for Chicken Aloha   (See #99)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Chicken leg and bones from
           Chicken breasts
    1/2 tb Paprika
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Mushroom stems
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Brown gravy
    1/2 c  Sour cream
           Lemon juice
           Salt and pepper
 
  Cut leg of chicken and breast bones in pieces.  Heat oil with paprika
  in frying pan; add chicken and cook slowly, covered for 30 min.,
  turning once or twice.   Add mushroom stems and cood 10 min. more.
  Then add flour, smoothing it in to prevent lumps.  Add sour cream and
  cook slowly--do not boil--until juices are well mixed.  Add brown
  gravy, boil, and season with salt, peppper, and lemon juice.  Strain
  and serve with the breasts.
  
  Serve on silver platter topped with a sugar glazed pineapple ring and
  garnished with wild rice.
                           The Greenbrier Hotel, White Sulphur Springs,
  WV
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buffet Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Chicken breasts
           Flour
           Cooking oil
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
           Butter
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      6    Green onions, chopped
    1/2 c  Mushrooms
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sherry
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Parsley, chopped
    1/2 cn Black olives, pitted, sliced
      1 cn Consomme'
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Bone and skin chicken breasts.  Flour lightly and brown in oil.  Salt
  and pepper and place in large casserole.  Saute garlic, onions, and
  mushrooms in butter until tender but not brown.  Add this to the
  chicken.   Make a paste of flour, water, and sherry.  Pour over the
  chicken.  Then sprinkle on the paprika, thyme, and parsley.   Add
  olives and  pour over all the can of consomme'.  Bake at 350 F. until
  tender, abt. 40 to 60 min.  Add the sour cream and heat through.
  This may be made far ahead and even frozen. Just reheat and stir in
  the sour cream until heated (do NOT boil), abt. 10 minutes.  Serve in
  chafing dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breast Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Chicken breasts
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      1    Green pepper, diced
      1    Med. onion, diced
      2    Cans Beef bullion (10 3/4oz)
    1/2 c  White wine
    3/4 c  Uncooked minute rice
 
  Brown chicken breasts in butter and remove.   Brown the mujshrooms,
  onion, and pepper in butter. Place everything in casserole with the
  chicken breasts on top.  Bake in oven, covered, for 2 hrs. at 350 F.
  Remove lid for the last 15 minutes.  Serves 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts in Sour Cream
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5    Chicken Breasts
     10    Strips bacon (uncooked)
      1 pk Chipped beef (thin-dried)
      1 cn Cream soup  (mushr.,celery,
           Or chicken.)
    1/2 pt Sour cream
 
  Halve chicken breasts and bone the halves.  Wrap each half in a bacon
  strip and secure with toothpick.  Line a greased (9 x 13 x 2)
  casserole with chipped beef.  Combine sour cream and cream soup and
  pour over chicken which has been placed on beef in casserole.  Bake
  covered at 325 F.for 2 1/2 hrs. and uncovered for 1/2 hr. longer.
  May use 2 cns. of soup and 1 pint of sour cream if more sauce is
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts Parmesan
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Pancake mix
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4    Small chicken breasts,split
      1 cn Cream mushroom soup
    1/3 c  Dry onion soup mix
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Milk
           Parsley
 
  In a bowl, combine pancake mix, salt, and pepper.  Roll chicken
  breasts in the mixture a few at a time to coat well.   Place chicken
  in a shallow 3 qt. baking dish, overlapping slightly, if necessary.
  Combine mushroom soup, onion soup mix, and milk in a small bowl and
  blend until smooth. Pour over the chicken.  Cover dish tightly with
  foil.  Bake at 375 F. for 60 min.  Remove foil and sprinkle cheese on
  top.  Bake uncovered 15 min. longer.  Garnish with parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sherry--Sour Cream Chicken Breasts
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Chicken breasts
      1 cn Sliced mushrooms (3 oz.)
      1 cn Cream mushroom soup
    1/2 c  Sherry
      1 c  Sour cream
           Paprika
 
  Arrange chicken in a shallow baking dish.  Cover with mushrooms.
  Combine undiluted soup, sherry, and sour cream.  Blend.  Pour over
  chicken, completely covering it; dust with paprika.  Bake at 350 F.
  for 1 1/2 hrs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts with Orange Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Whole chicken breasts,halved
      1 ts Salt divided
    1/4 c  Butter/margarine
  2 1/2 tb Flour
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ginger
  1 1/2 c  Hot cooked rice
           Parsley for garnish
           Orange slices for garnish
 
  Sprinkle chicken breasts with 1/2 tsp. salt.   Brown in butter in
  skillet; remove.  Add flour, sugar, spices, and remaining 1/2/tsp.
  salt to dripings in skillet; stir to smooth paste.  Gradually stir in
  orange juice. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and
  comes to boil. Add chicken breasts and cover.  Simmer over low heat
  until chicken is tender, about 30-40 min.  Remove chicken to serving
  platter.  Serve with hot cooked rice and sauce.  Garnish with orange
  slices and parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Sauce for Chicken Divan
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Half & half
           Salt & pepper to taste
      2    Egg yolks, slightly beaten
      1 tb Whipped  cream
 
  Melt butter in heavy pan.   Stir in the flour.   Blend well over low
  heat.
   Slowly add half & half, stirring constantly, bringing slowly to the
  boiling point.  Cook 2 min.  Season to taste with salt and pepper.
  Stir in slightly beaten egg yolks.  Fold in whipped cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Chicken Divan
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Whole chicken breasts
      1 pk Frozen Broccoli spears
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ds Curry powder
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
           Bread crumbs, or Stuffing
           Mix.
 
  Simmer the chicken breasts in salted water until tender, about 45
  minutes.
    Let cool in broth.  Remove meat from bones.  In shallow casserole,
  place frozen broccoli, separated, with chicken on top.  Mix together
  the soup, mayonnaise, lemon juice, curry, and cheese.  Pour the
  mixture over the chicken and broccoli.  Top with bread crumbs and
  bake at 350 F. uncovered for 45 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Chicken Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pgk. frozen broccoli (10oz.)
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Wild rice
      4    Chick. breast--chopped/cookd
      1 cn Cream of chicken coup
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1    4 oz. jar Cheez-Whiz
 
  Cook broccoli according to pkg. directions, adding onion and celery
  while cooking. Drain.  Cook rice according to pkg. directions.  Cook
  chicken breasts in salted water.  Cook, bone, and chop chicken.   In
  a large casserole, place the rice in layer, next the chicken, and
  then the broccoli.  Mix soups together and pour over the chicken.
  Drop the cheese spread by spoonsful over the top.  Bake at 350 F. for
  40 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Chicken Casserole
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      5    Chick. breast, boned,cut up.
      1 pk Corn tortillas (12 in pk)
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      2 cn Green chile salsa (7 oz.ea)
      1 c  Milk
      1    Onion, chopped
      1 lb Cheddar cheese, grated.
 
  Cut tortillas in 1" squares.  Combine all other ingredients except
  cheese. Butter casserole; layer tortillas, chicken, and soup mixture.
  Top each layer with grated cheese.  Let stand in refrigerator for 24
  hrs.  Bake at 300 F. for 1 1/2 to 2 hr. uncovered.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moo Goo Gai Pan (Stir-Fried Chicken & Mushrooms)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 tb Peanut oil
      2    Green onions, sliced
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, sliced
      2    Whole chicken breasts>>>>
           Boned and sliced.
      2 tb Soy sauce (more if desired)
      1 ts Salt
 
  Have all ingredients ready before beginning.  Heat 2 tbs. oil in a
  large frying pan or wok.  When oil is very hot, stir-fry the onions
  and mushrooms for 3 min.  Remove to a bowl, and add 6 tbs. more oil
  to pan. Stir-fry chicken until no longer pink, abt. 5 min.  Return
  the mushrooms and onions to the skillet, and add soy sauce and salt
  to taste.  Remove to a plate and serve immediately.  NOTE:  the
  chicken pieces may be marinated for 15 to 30 min. before frying in a
  mixture of 1 egg white, tsp. cornstarch, 2 tsp. dry sherry, and salt
  and pepper to taste. This tenderizes the chicken and adds flavor.
  Sliced water chestnuts and snowpeas may be stir fried with the
  mushrooms.
  
  Recipe:  The Continental Key Club, Fairmont, WV
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Party Chicken Bake
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Dry Italian salad dressing
           Mix. (Good Seasons, etc.)
      2 tb Margarine, melted
      3    Whole chick. breast, split
      1 cn Cream mushroom soup
      3 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 tb Chopped chives
    1/3 c  Sauterne
      1 c  Instant rice
 
  Reserve 1/2 tsp. salad dressing mix.  In large skillet combine butter
  and dressing mix; add chicken and brown slowly until golden.  Place
  in 9 x 13 inch baking dish.   Blend soup, cream cheese, chives, and
  sauterne.  Spoon over chicken.   Bake uncovered at 325 F. for 1 hr.
  Baste with sauce occasionally.  Serve over rice which has been cooked
  in water to which the reserved 1/2 tsp. salad dressing mix has been
  added.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Party Chicken--Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 cn Crabmeat (8 oz. ea.)
      1 c  Dry Pepperidge Farm Dressing
      2    Chick. breast, boned, split
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 cn Cream Mushroom Soup
           Parsley for color
           Pimento strips for color
 
  Butter 9 x 9 inch casserole.  Bone crabmeat and place on bottom.
  Maake stuffing according to package directions and place on top of
  crabmeat. Skin chicken breasts and lay over stuffing.  Sprinkle on
  parsley and/or pimento and salt and pepper.  Add one can mushroom
  soup, undiluted. Sprinkle with paprika.  Bake, uncovered, at 325 F.
  for 1 1/2 hr.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Boneless breast of chicken
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 ts Paprika
      1 pk Frozen broccoli, cooked
      4    Canned peach halves
      1 c  Sour Cream
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
      2 ts Poppy seeds
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
 
  Season chicken with salt and pepper.  In small skillet, melt butter;
  add onion and garlic and saute for a few minutes.  Add paprika.  Dip
  chicken in this mixture and coat well.  Put in shallow baking dish.
  Bake in 375 F. preheated oven for 20 min.  Cover with foil and bake
  10 more minutes. Arrange drained hot broccoli around chicken.  Put in
  peaches.  Mix sour cream and mayonnaise and spoon over all.  Sprinkle
  with poppy seeds and Parmesan cheese.   Broil low in broiler for 6 to
  8 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet and Sour Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Chick. breast,halved,skinned
           Boned.
    1/2 c  Flour with salt & pepper
    1/3 c  Oil

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 cn 13 oz. pineapple tidbits
  1 1/4 c  Juice(water + pineapple juic
    2/3 c  Cider  vinegar
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Ginger
      1    Chicken bullion cube
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 cn Mandarin oranges (10 oz.)
    1/2 c  Marachino cherries-halved
 
  Shake chicken in bag with flour, salt and pepper; brown well both
  sides in hot oil.  Put in 9 x 13 inch baking pan.  Bake at 350 F. for
  20 Min.
  
  FOR SAUCE:  Mix all ingreds. except pineapple, oranges, and cherries.
  Boil for 2 min., stirring.  Pour sauce over chicken.  Add pineapple,
  oranges, cherries.  Baste and bake 20 min. more.  Accompany with hot
  cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bourbon Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Chick. breast, halved, >>>
           Skinned, or mixed pcs. of >>
           Chicken.
    1/3 c  Bourbon
    1/3 c  Salad oil
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
 
  Place washed, skinned chicken in baking dish, meaty side down.  Mix
  the bourbon, salad oil, and soy sauce.  Pour mixture over chicken and
  marinate for several hours for enhanced flavor.  Bake at 350 F. for
  50 min.  Serve with hot cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Hawaiian
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Lge. green pepper cut in >>
           Strips.
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      2 tb Oil
      2 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 cn Pineapple tidbits w/juice
      2 c  Cooked cubed chicken
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 c  Hot cooked rice
    1/3 c  Toasted, slivered almonds
 
  In large frying pan, cook green pepper with garlic in oil until
  tender. Blend in soup and pineapple juice from can.  Add chicken,
  pineapple bits, and soy sauce.  Simmer for abt. 10 min., stirring
  occasionally.  Serve over rice and top with toasted slivered almonds.
  
  To toast almonds, put them in a 350 F. oven for abt. 10 min. with a
  tablespoon of butter, strring and watching to see that they do not
  get too brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken International
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sauterne or sherry
      2 tb Brown sugar
      4 tb Butter
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Freshly ground pepper
      1 ts Seasoning salt
      1 ts Paprika
      1 tb Chopped parsley1
      1    Chicken cut into parts.
           Flour
           Mushrooms (opt)
           Pearl onions (opt)
           Artichoke hearts (opt)
 
  Combine all but chicken, vegetables and flour.  Heat until butter is
  melted.  Pour over chicken and marinate at least 4 hrs.  Bake,
  uncovered in 350 F. oven for 1 to 1 1/2 hrs.  One half hr. before
  serving sprinkle lightly with flour and baste with the sauce.  Add
  whole mushrooms (be sure to baste them too, or they will be dry).
  Serve with wild rice and remaining sauce from the baking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Jubilee
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      4    Fryers--quartered
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Melted margarine
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1    Bottle chili sauce (12 oz.)
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 cn Bing cherries, pitted, drain
      1 c  Sherry
 
  Place chickens in shallow pans, skin side up.  Season and drizzle with
  margarine.  Brown under med. heat of broiler.  Combine remaining
  ingreds. except wine and cherries.  Mix thoroughly.  Pour over
  chicken and cover entire pans wiht foil.  Bake one hr. at 325 F.;
  remove flil and add wine and cherries.  Bake 15 min. longer, basting.
  To serve, pour gravy over chickens on platters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French-Style Baked Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    3 lb. fryer
      2 ts Salt--divided
      1 ts MSG
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaf
      4    Parsley sprigs
      2    Celery tops with leaves
      1    Yellow onion
      2 tb Butter or margarine
     12    Small white onions, peeled
     12    Whole mushrooms (opt)
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
     12    Small potatoes, pared
           Chopped parsley for garnish
 
  Sprinkle inside of chicken with  1 tsp. salt, MSG, and thyme.  Place
  parsley, celery and yellow onion in cavity of chicken.  Tie legs
  together; then tie to tail.  Place chicken in a large heavy casserole
  with lid; dot with butter, cover and bake at 375 F. for 30 min.  Add
  white onions, sherry, and 1 tsp. salt., and bake 15 min. longer.  Add
  potatoes and bake for 15 min, or until potatoes are tender.  Remove
  cover; bake until chicken and vegetables are browned and tender,
  about 30 minutes to 1 hr. Baste frequently with juices in casserole.
  Sprinkle with chopped parsley. Make a thin gravy with the pan juices.
  
  Note:  If using mushrooms in place onions, add them at the same time
  as potatoes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jambalaya Casserole
 Categories: Pasta, Seafood, Casserole
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -BETTY PINDER (TKHN51B)
      1 pk Elbow macaroni, cook, 5oz
      2 sl Bacon, chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2    Clove garlic, minced
      2 tb Flour
  2 1/4 c  Canned tomatoes
    1/2 lb Boiled ham
      1 c  Cooked cleaned shrimp
    1/4 c  Breadcrumbs
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
      2 tb Melted margarine
 
  Brown chopped bacon in a skillet. Add onion, green pepper, and garlic
  and brown. Stir in flour; add tomatoes and cook until thickened,
  stirring constantly. Add macaroni, ham and shrimp. Pour into a
  greased 1 1/2 qt casserole dish. Combine breadcrumbs, cheese and
  margarine; sprinkle over casserole. Bake at 350 for about 30 minutes.
  ~----   
         FOOD BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 09/08 9:53 AM
  
  TO:      WALDINE VAN GEFFEN   (VGHC42A) FROM: WALDINE VAN GEFFEN
  (VGHC42A) SUBJECT: R-MM SEAFOOD RECIPES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Classic Fried Catfish
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    3/4 c  Yellow Cornmeal
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cayenne Pepper
    1/4 ts Garlic Powder
      4    Farm-raised Catfish Fillets
           -or whole catfish
        x  Vegetable Oil
 
  Combine cornmeal, flour, salt, cayenne and garlic powder. Coat
  catfish with mixture, shaking off excess. Add 1" layer of oil to a
  large skillet. Heat to 350~. Add catfish in single layer and fry
  until golden brown, about 5 to 6 minutes depending on size. Remove
  and drain on paper towels. Source: The Catfish Institute. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Stuffed Pistolettes
 Categories: Sandwich, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    1/2 lb Butter
      2 c  Onions; chopped
    1/2 c  Bell Pepper; chopped
    3/4 c  Celery; chopped
    1/4 c  Green onions; chopped
      3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 lb Velveeta cheese; cubed
      1 c  Water
      3 lb Shrimp; cook; grind
      1 lb Crabmeat; white or claw
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Granulated garlic
    1/2 ts Cayenne
     12    Pistolettes*
 
  *Pistolettes are small football-shaped crusty rolls that are the
  brown and serve kind. They recommended using Earth Grain. Saute
  onions, bell pepper, celery and shallots in butter until translucent.
  Add milk, velveeta, water, shrimp, crabmeat and seasonings. Cook on
  low just until heated through. In semi-deep fat, fry pistolettes
  until they are browned. While still hot, holding them in a pot
  holder, make a slit in the end and stuff with seafood mixture. Eat
  immediately. Source: TV show with Frank Davis, N.O. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Creole a la Masson's
 Categories: Seafood, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1    Onion; medium, chopped
      1 pk Green onions; chopped
      2    Celery ribs; chopped
      1    Bell pepper; sliced thin
      2    Garlic cloves; chopped
      1 pn Thyme
      3    Bay leaves
      1 pn Cayenne pepper
     16 oz Can tomatoes
      3 oz Tomato paste
      3 lb Shrimp; peeled
      6 x  Cooked rice servings
 
  Saute onions, celery, bell pepper, garlic, thyme, cayenne pepper and
  bay leaves in cooking oil. Add tomatoes and tomato paste; simmer 15
  minutes. Add peeled raw shrimp; simmer 10 minutes. Serve over hot
  rice. From: Masson's Restaurant Francais, New Orleans (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Cannelloni
 Categories: Pasta, Crab/shrimp, Sausage, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 lb Ricotta cheese
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
    2/3 c  Romano cheese; grated
    1/2 lb Mozzarella cheese; shred
    1/4 lb Crawfish tails; cut small
           -pieces
    1/4 lb Crabmeat
      1 lg Link boudin (or smoked)
           -sausage; chop small pieces
      1 lb Link Italian sausage; cut
           -small pieces
     28    Canneloni shells
      4    Eggs
      2    Jalapeno peppers; chopped
      1 ts Tabasco
           SAUCE
    1/2 c  Red wine
      3 c  Tomato sauce
      2 sm Cans tomato paste
    1/2 c  Butter
      4 tb Olive oil
    1/4 c  Onion; diced
    1/4 c  Shallots; slice thin
      1 ts Fresh ground white pepper
    1/8 c  Garlic; chopped
    1/4 c  Mushrooms; chopped
           TOPPING
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
    1/4 lb Mozzarella cheese; shred
 
  Begin 2 hours ahead. Prepare sauce: Melt butter, mix with olive oil.
  Add peppercorns, onion, garlic. Saute several miniutes. Add
  mushrooms; saute several minutes more. Add tomato sauce and paste.
  Simmer 1 hour or more. Cook sausages well in pan; add jalapenos and
  Tabasco. Add crawfish and saute 5 minutes more. Add crab; saute a few
  more minutes. Blend Romano, Parmesan and mozzarella in mixing bowl
  with ricotta. Add sausage, crab, crawfish mixture. Add eggs; mix
  thoroughly.. Cook canneloni in rapidly boiling water 7 to 10 minutes
  or until shells are cooked but firm. Remove shells from water and
  stuff with mixture when cool to the touch. Arrange shells in large
  greased baking pan. Cover with sauce. Slice remaining mozzarella and
  arrange on top. Top with grated Parmesan. Bake 40 minutes at 350~.
  Put under broiler for last 5 minutes to brown cheese topping. Source:
  Times-Picayune
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -WALDINE VAN GEFFEN-VGHC42A
      1 lb Crabmeat
      1 pt Milk
           Butter; melted
           Garlic; minced
           Celery, green onions; chop
           Onions; chopped
           Cream
           Flour
        x  Nutmeg
 
  Remove crab shells from meat and poach in pint of milk on low until
  soft. STUFFING-In melted butter, saute garlic, onions, celery, and
  green onions. When onions are translucent, add flour, stirring to
  blend.
   Add nutmeg and crabmeat. This should be rather thick. Set aside. Peel
  shrimp and leave tail section on. Cut center of shrimp and fill with
  stuffing. Mix a cup of milk with a beaten egg and season with salt and
  white pepper. Dust stuffed shrimp in all-purpose flour, egg wash then
  in Italian bread crumbs. Saute in butter until golden brown. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp & Chicken Supreme
 Categories: Poultry, Seafood, Rice, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
      8 oz Fresh Mushrooms; Sliced
      2 tb Scallions; sliced
      2 cn Cream of Chicken Soup
    1/2 c  Sherry
    1/2 c  Light Cream -OR- Half & Half
      1 c  Cheddar Cheese; shredded
      2 c  Shrimp; cooked, shelled
      2 c  Chicken Pieces; cooked
      2 ts Parsley; chopped
           Hot Buttered Rice
 
  In a large saucepan melt butter, add mushrooms and scallions and
  saute 5 minutes. Add soup and stir in sherry and cream, mixing
  thoroughly. Add cheese and stir over low heat until cheese has
  melted. Add chicken and shrimp and heat but do not boil. Just before
  serving stir in parsley. Serve over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa Cruda
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 c  Peeled,seeded,chopped tomat.
    1/2 c  Finely chopped green onion>>
           Including tops
    1/4 c  Finely chopped hot pepper
    1/4 c  Finely chopped bell pepper
      2 ts Cilantro, chopped fine
    1/8 ts Sugar
           Salt & pepper
 
  Chop each ingredient by hand or in food processor.  Chop separately.
  Do not over process.  Mix all the ingredients together.  Taste and
  adjust the seasonings.  Let the salsa stand for at least 30 minutes.
  Stir well before serving.
  
  Yield: approx. 2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Salsa
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 cn Whole tomatoes, drained
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 cn Green chiles,chop,drain
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 ts Vinegar
           Salt
           Tabasco sauce or Louisiana
           Hot sauce
 
  Combine all ingredients in a blender or food processor.  process very
  briefly until the salsa is mixed but not too smooth.  Taste and adjust
  seasonings.  If possible allow to sit for 30 min. to allow flavors to
  blend.  This recipe can be made in abt. 2 min. in processor.  It can
  be used in any recipe calling for Salsa Cruda; best in cooked dishes.
  Makes excellent enchilada sauce. Yield: approx. 2 1/2 cups
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Pepper Salsa
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      5 c  Tomatoes,seeded,peeled>>>
           Finely chopped
    1/2 c  Pickled jalapenos including>
           Some pickling juice
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1    Green onion,finely chopped
      2 ts Cilantro, finely chopped
 
  Chop each ingredient by hand, or separately in food processor.
  Combine all the ingredients, adding salt to taste.  Allow to stand
  for abt. 1 hr to allow flavors to blend.  Stir well before serving.
  
  Yield:  Approx. 5 cups
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Avocado Salsa Cruda
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Finely diced Avocado
  1 1/2 c  Peeled, seeded, finely>>>
           Chopped tomatoes (abt. 2)
    1/2 c  Red onion, diced
    1/4 c  Diced jalapeno, fine
    1/4 c  Diced bell pepper, fine
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley, chopped
    1/8 ts Sugar
           Salt
 
  Chop each vegetable by hand or with food processor.  Mix together in a
  nonaluminum bowl.  Add the sugar and salt to taste.  Adjust the
  sesonings if necessary.  Let the salsa sit for at least 1 hr.  Stir
  well before serving.
  
  Yield:  Approx. 2 cups
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomatillo Salsa
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Small onion, finely chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, finely chopp.
    1/4 c  Pickled jalapenos, chopped
      2 tb Fresh cilantro, choppped
      1 cn Tomatillos (13 oz.), drained
           Pinch of sugar
 
  Chop each ingredient by hand.  Combine the ingredients, taste, and
  adjust the seasonings.  Allow to stand for at least 30 min. for
  flavors to blend.
  
  Moderately hot--excellent with chips--bean burritos--served with
  tacos, added to guacamole--whatever!!
  
  Yield:  Approx. 1 1/4 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jalapeno Salsa  (Cooked)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
    3/4 c  Jalapenos, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
      3 c  Seeded,peeled, choppped>>>
           Tomatoes.
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Fresh cilantro, chopped
      1 tb Green olives, chopped
           Salt
 
  In med. sized skillet, heat the oil.  Add the jalapenos, garlicn and
  onion. Saute until the onion is soft, but not browned, 3-5 min.  Add
  the tomatoes and cook until the tomatoes are quite soft, about 5 min.
  Add the remaining ingredients and cook for a few minutes more to give
  the flavors a chance to "marry".  Add salt to taste if needed.  Let
  the salsa stand for at least 30 min.  Stir well before serving.
  
  Yield:  Approx. 2 cups
  
  This salsa is moderately hot--use half bell pepper and half jalapeno
  to "cool" it down if you like.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa Fria  (Cooked)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Cumin
    1/4 c  Onion, diced
    1/2 c  Hot pepper, diced
      1 cn (1lb.)Tomatoes,chopped OR
      2 c  Fresh tomat. peeled,chopped
    3/4 c  Crushed pineapple
    1/4 c  Lime juice
    1/8 ts Cinnamon, ground
           Salt & pepper
 
  In saucepan, melt butter. Add the cumin, onion and hot pepper.  Saute
  until the onion is translucent, 2-3 min.  Add the tomatoes,
  pineapple, lime juice, and cinnamon.   Simmmer for 30 min.  Season to
  taste with salt and pepper.  Cool.  Serve at room temp.
  Exceptionally good with grilled fish.
  
  Yield:  Approx. 2 1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Chile Chipolte Salsa (Cooked)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      4    Chipolte chiles NO SUBST.
      1 c  Boiling water
      1 tb Oil
    3/4 c  Diced onion
    3/4 c  Bell pepper
      2 c  Fresh toamto.,peeled,diced
    1/2 ts Oregano
 
  Combine chiles and boiling water--let soak 30 min.  Remove stems and
  seeds and chop.
  
  In nonaluminum saucepan, heat the oil and saute the onion, sweet
  pepper, and chipoltes until onion is slightly tender, 1-2 min.  Add
  the chiles, soaking water, tomatoes and oregano and remove from heat.
  Process briefly in blender until ingredients are well mixed, but
  still chunky.  Use for BBQ, or any cooked dish.  Great when mixed
  with sour cream for dip.
  
  Yield:  approx. 3-3 1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa Borracho for Enchiladas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      4    Clove garlic, minced
      4 tb Chili powder
      4    Jalapenos, diced
      2 c  Diced tomatoes
      2 tb Tomato paste
    1/2 c  Beer
 
  In nonaluminum pan, melt the butter over medium low heat.  Add the
  garlic, chili powder, and jalapenos.  Saute until the chili powder
  begins to foam. Add remaining ingredients and bring to a boil.
  Simmer for 5 min. Remove from heat.
  
  Yield:  approx. 3 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Empanadas (Meat Turnovers)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizer, Pork
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 lb Pork Butt or shoulder roast
      1    Onion, quartered
      2    Garlic cloves
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Cumin
      2    Bay leaves
  1 1/2 c  All purpose flour + 2tb more
    3/4 c  Masa Harina
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Lard or solid shortening
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Chile chipolta salsa
    1/2 ts Salt
           Milk
 
  This recipe is not as complicatated as it looks. First your prepare
  the filling which is easy to make and can be used for almost anything
  else, such as a taco filling.  Next make the dough, which is no
  harder to do than pie dough.
  
  Place pork in large pot.   Cover with water.   Add onion, garlic, 1/2
  ts. salt, oregano, cumin, and bay leaves.  Bring to  boil, reduce
  heat, and simmer for 1 1/2 hrs.
  
  While the pork cooks, prepare the dough.  Sift together the flour,
  Masa, baking powder and 1/4 ts. salt.   In a separate bowl, beat
  together the egg and 1/2 c. milk.   Make a well in the center of the
  dry ingreds..Add the egg mixture and stir with a fork until the dough
  comes together in a ball. Divide the dough into 16 even-size pieces
  and roll each piece into a ball. Place in a bowl, cover, and
  refrigerate.
  
  After pork has simmered for 1 1/2 hrs, preheat oven to 375 F..
  Remove the pork from the liquid.  Save the stock for soup if you
  like.  Place pork in a baking dish or Dutch oven.  Brush with hot
  pepper sauce.  Bake for 1 hr., or untill meat shreds easily with
  fork.  Remove from oven and shred into small pieces.  Combine Red
  Chile Salsa (see #141) and remaining 1/2 tsp. salt. On lightly
  floured surface, flatten a piece of dough with the palm of your hand.
  With rolling pin (actually, a piece of cut-off broom handle works
  best), roll out the dough to make a 5" circle, abt. 1/8" thick. Place
  2-3 tbs. filling in center of the dough. Brush edges of dough with
  milk. Fold dough over filling. Pinch edges together. Crimp with fork
  to seal. Place on lightly greased baking sheet. Bake for 20 min.,, or
  until golden. Remove to rack and cool for abt. 5 min. Serve warm. Can
  be frozen baked or unbaked.  If baking from freezer, do not thaw.
  Bake in preheated 350 F. oven for 25-30 min. Reheat baked frozen at
  350 for 15 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Chilaquiles  (Casserole)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Hot Italian Sausage
      1 tb Oil
      6    Corn tortillas
      3 c  Harissa Sauce (see #44)
      4 c  Grated cheddar cheese
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  Slice open the sausage casings and remove the
  meat. In large skillet, brown sausage, breaking it up with a spoon as
  it cooks. Drain and set aside
  
  Heat 1 tbs. oil in a skillet, briefly fry tortillas in the oil until
  softened, abt. 1 min. on one side & 1/2 min. on other.  Cut tortillas
  into strips (kitchen shears are best).
  
  Spoon a little sauce into the bottom of a 2 qt. baking dish.  Arrange
  a layer of tortilla strips on top.  Then layer on some sausage, then a
  generous coating of cheese.  Repeat untill all ingreds. are used,
  ending with a layer of cheese.  Bake for 30 min, until the cheese is
  melted and golden.  Allow the casserole to sit for abt. 5 min. before
  serving.  Pass extra salsa and sour cream at the table.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beet Horseradish
 Categories: Jewish, Relish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Fresh horseradish, grated
      1    Fresh beet, grated
      1 tb Sugar (approx)
      1 pn Salt
           Vinegar & water to cover
 
  Place grated horseradish and beets in jar.  Combine vinegar diluted
  with a little cold water.  Add sugar and salt and add combined
  mixture to horseradish.  Cover tightly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Quartered Chicken
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Poultry, Appetizer, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Roasting chicken, quartered
      1    Large diced onion
           Garlic, minced
           Salt, pepper, paprika
 
  Season each quarter well and place in roasting pan over diced onions
  and garlic.  Add about 1/2 cup of water and cover.  Roast at 350 F.
  until almost tender.  Remove cover, lower heat to 325 F. and bake
  uncovered, turning once until each piece is golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Challah (Sabbath White Bread)
 Categories: Jewish, Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Cakes yeast
      4 ts Salt
      3    Eggs slightly beaten>>>>
           Reserve 1 tb. for brushing
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Warm  water
  7 1/2 c  Flour (approx)
    1/4 c  Veg. oul or melted crisco
 
  Soften yeast in 1/2 c. of the warm water, adding a little of the
  sugar to help rise.  In a large mixing bowl place sugar, salt, oil
  and the rest of the water.   Stir to combine.   Add yeast mixture
  which has risen and mix.
   Blend in the eggas and abbout 3 cups of the flour and beat well.
  Then knead in remainder of flour and continue to knead on floured
  surface until dough is smoth and satiny, about 10 minutes.  Place in
  greased bowl and cover.  Let rise in warm place, about 2 hrs. Punch
  dough down and divide into 2 parts.  If making twists, divide each
  half of dough into 3 strips about 14" long.  Braid the three strips
  together, sealing ends.  Or divide dough into two parts and proceed
  as follows:  Make six large rolls of each half and place them side by
  side in a greased baking pan.  Let rise for about 45 to 60 min.
  Brush with reserved eggs mixed with a little water and bake in 375 F.
  oven for abt. 45 min. or until a deep golden brown. Remove from oven
  and from pan so bottom does not become soggy.  Makes 2 loaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread Stuffing for Fowl
 Categories: Jewish, Bread, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Loaf of stale bread
      2    Stalks celery, chopped fine
      1    Raw potato, grated
      2    Onions, chopped fine
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Salt (or to taste)
      1 ts Pepper (or to taste)
      1 ts Ginger (or to taste)
      3 tb Chicken fat
           Nuts
           Chopped parsley
           Mushrooms, canned or fresh>>
           Boiled chestnuts (opt).
 
  Soak bread in water and squeeze dry.  Saute onions and celery until
  tender, add mushrooms, chestnuts and nuts and saute for about 1 min.
  Mix with bread and grated potato.  Season well.  Add two beaten eggs
  blend well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Helzel
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Onion, grated
    1/4 c  Chicken fat, chopped,uncookd
      1 ds Nutmeg (opt)
 
  Combine all ingredients.  Sew up the small end of chicken  neck and
  fill 3/4 full.  Sew up otherr end.  Wash with cold water, then pour
  boiling water over.  This will make skin smooth.  Cook in salted
  boiling water to which an onion has been added for about 30 min.
  Then roast in oven with meat or chicken or by itsels in well greased
  pan.  Recipe may be doubled or tripled.  This may also be made with a
  combination of flour, matzo meal, oat meal, or farina.  Bread crumbs
  may be used instead of flour and browned diced onion may be added to
  crumbs.  Season with poultry seasoning.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tzimmmes Deluxe
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5    Carrots, large
      5    White potatoes
      3    Sweet potatoes
      3 lb Brisket or flanken
           Water to cover
      1    Onion, small
      1 lb Prunes
    1/2 c  Honey
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Fat
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Brown  sugar
 
  Pare and cut the carrots and potatoes into thick slices.  Rinse
  prunes. Sear meat on all sides in heavy pan until brown.  Add
  vegetables, seasoning, honey, cold water to vocer and cook for 2 1/2
  to 3 hrs until meat is tender. shake from time to time so vegetables
  do not stick.  Add water if necessary.  Remove onion and make an
  einbrein by stirring the flour into the melted fat.  Cook minute or
  two and then add some of the liquid from the pan.  Place all in
  casserole and bake, uncovered for 350 F. oven for 30 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kreplach
 Categories: Jewish, Bread, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 lb Beef, cooked
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Onion
      1 tb Fat or crisco
 
  Fry onions in fat, grind meat, beat in egg and seasoning.   Beat egg,
  salt and add flour.  Knead dough to a smooth ball.  Roll out on board
  to 1/8th inch thickness and cut into  2" squares.  Put a small ball
  of filling into center of each square, fold one corner over
  diagonally to form a triangle and press edges firmly together.  Let
  stand for 10 min. and then cook in boiling salted water for 30 min.
  Drain and serve either in chicken soup or browned in the oven with
  fat as a side dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chanukah Menorah Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Cream cheese, softened
      8    Maraschino cherries
    1/2 lb Walnut halves
      1 cn Pineapple spears
 
  Cover an oval platter with a thin smooth layer of cream cheese.   On
  this arrange the spears to represent  a Menorah with candles.  On top
  of each candle place a cherry for a flame.  Trim edge of platter with
  walnut halves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chanukah Candle Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Hard boiled eggs
     14    Asparagus spears
           Paprika
           Black or Green olives
 
  Put whites of the eggs through a coarse sieve and spread solidly on a
  large flat platter as the background.  Lengthwise across center of
  platter place 3 asparaghus end to end.  Using this as a base, place 8
  asparagus vertically to represent the 8 candles.  To form the base of
  Menorah, place under the lengthwise line of tips, in the center, 2
  half pcs. of asparagus, side by side vertically, and underneath
  these, one asparagus horizontally. Mash yolks with butter or
  mayonnaise and form into tiny balls, witha point at one end to
  represent the tip o f the flame. Sprinkle with paprika a d place
  avoce the 8 asparagus candles.  Use remainder of yolks alternately
  with the olives to form a frame around the edge of the platter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Potatoes, drained but not>>
           Dry.
      1    Onion, grated
      1 ts Salt & pepper (to taste)
      1 tb Matzo meal or cream wheat
      3    Eggs, beaten
      6 tb Oil, margarine or crisco
 
  Grate potatoes, drain but not dry.  Put back starch.  Add grated
  onion, 3 eggs, 1 tablespoon cream of wheat, matzo meal, or flour and
  salt.  Melt shortening.  Add 4 tbs. to potatoes and leave 2 tbs.
  inside baking pan. Bake for 350 F. for abt. 1 hr.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Pancakes
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Grated potatoes
      1    Egg to ea. c. grated potato.
    1/2 ts Salt to ea. c.grated potato.
        pn Pepper
           Grated onion
 
  Mix together and fry in hot grease.  Turn and fry other side.  These
  are always nice and crisp.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Purim Poppyseed Candy
 Categories: Jewish, Candy
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 lb Poppyseeds
    1/2 c  Raisins (opt)
    3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Honey
      1 c  Nuts
      1 pn Salt
 
  Wash poppyseeds throughly in boiling water and drain well.  Cook all
  ingredients except nuts and raisins to soft ball stage.  Add nuts and
  raisins and cook for 5 min.  Pour onto wet board and spread with
  spatula to about 1/4" thick.  Allow to cool for a few minutes and cut
  into square or diamond shapes.  When cool, remove from board.  Makes
  36 pieces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamantaschen Cookie Dough #1
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt (or more)
      2    Eggs
    1/2 lb Margarine
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Cream margarine and sugar together and add eggs, beating thoroughly.
  Sift dry ingredients and mix in.  Knead into a ball.  Roll out on
  floured board and cut into circles with a cookie cutter.
  
  Place tablespoonful of filling (recipes to follow) on circle of
  dough. Fold into 3-cornered pocket by drawing up two adjacent sides
  and then the third. Pinch edges to seal.  Bake at 350 F. for 30-40
  min. depending on size
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamantaschen Cookie Dough #2
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg
           Vanilla or lemon extract
      2 tb Milk
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt (or more)
 
  Cream butter, sugar and add egg.  Mix and sift flour and baking
  powder and salt and add some of mixture to creamed butter and sugar
  mixture.  Add the milk and rest of flour.  Add flavoring.  Roll dough
  out, cut into rounds and place spoonful of filling on each round.
  Form into triangles and bake at 375 F. for 15 to 30 min. depending on
  size.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppyseed Filling for Hanantaschen
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Poppyseed
    1/3 c  Honey
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Nuts & raisins (opt.)
 
  Wash poppyseed thoroughly in boiling water and drain.  Spread thinly
  on clean cloth and allow to dry overnight.  Grind with finest blade
  of chopper and mix together with remaining ingredients.  Place
  tablespoonfull in center of Hamantaschen.  If using prepared
  poppyseed filling, add 2 tbs. honey to mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prune Filling #1 for Hamantaschen
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Jar, prepared prune filling
    1/2 c  Chopped raisins
    1/2 c  Nuts
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ds Nutmeg
 
  Blend thoroughly and use as filling for Hamantaschen
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prune Filling #2 for Hamantaschen
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Prunes
      2 ts Lemon juice
           Sugar to taste
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
 
  Soak prunes overnight.  Cook in water in which they were soaked until
  tender.  Add sugar.  Drain well.  Remove stones from prunes and cut
  into small pieces or grind. Mix with  rest of ingreds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppyseed & Nut Filling for Hamantaschen
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Poppy seeds
      2 tb Corn syrup
      1 tb Chopped citron
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Milk
 
  Put washed and drained poppy seeds through finest blade of food
  chopper and mix with rest of ingredients EXCEPT vanilla.  Let mixture
  cook over slow heat until thick, stirring often.  Cool and add
  vanilla.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nut & Poppyseed Rolls
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Lukewarm milk
      1    Cake of yeast
      2 tb Sugar
      4    Egg yolks
      4 c  Flour
 
  Dissolve yeast in milk.  Sift dry ingredients; cut butter into
  mixture as you would for pie dough.  Toss in liquids.  Knead until
  smooth.  Let rise about 2 hrs.  Divide into 4 pcs. Roll each pc. very
  thin.  Spread with filling and roll as for a jelly roll.  Bake on a
  lightly greased sheet at 350 F. until brown, abt. 30 to 45 min. Slice
  into pieces of desired size.
  
  Filling recipes to follow: Nos. 165, 166, 167
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut Filling for Nut & Poppyseed Rolls
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground walnuts
      1    Med. apple, grated
      2 c  Sugar (or a little less)
 
  Mix together and add enough cold water to moisten, about 1 to 2 tbs.
  Mixture should be moist--not wet.
  
  Will fill 1/2 of #164 dough.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppy Seed Filling for Nut & Poppy Seed Rolls
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Poppy seeds
      3 tb Lemon juice
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 tb Butter
 
  Bring all ingredients to a boil and cook over low heat, stirring
  frequently until thick. Cool.
  
  Recipe fills 1/2 #164 dough.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheeese Filling for Nut & Poppy Seed Rolls
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Cottage cheese (scant lb.)
      3    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Lemon flavoring
 
  Put cheese thru sieve and add rest of ingredients and blend well.
  Prepare dough for Nut & Poppyseed Rolls (#164).  Cut dough into
  squares and press into bottoms of cupcake tins.  Fill each cake with
  a little cheese and fold over corners of dough toward the center of
  the cake  Bake at 350 F. until brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Taiglach
 Categories: Jewish, Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 40 servings
 
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Walnuts, chopped
  4 1/2 c  Flour
      1 lb Honey
      8    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Ginger
 
  Mix eggs, flour and baking powder and knead well.  Dough should be
  soft but stiff enough to roll.  Roll  with hands by bits into long
  ropes 1/2" in diameter.  Use very little flour in rolling to avoid
  toughness.  Slice in 1/2" lengths.  Heat oven to 350 F.  While oven
  is heating, bring to boil the honey, ginger and sugar in a shallow
  broad bottmed pan.  Put into this the pieces of dough.  Then place
  pan into oven.  Do not open oven for first 15 or 20 min.  By this
  time the honey will have coated each piece of dough. Now, stir every
  10 min. to prevent the pieces from sticking to each other. Takes abt.
  an hour for baking.  Pieces should be brown and when tested in cold
  water should remain firm and crisp.  Pour onto moistened board,
  flatten, sprinkle nuts on top and cut into squares. Makes 40 pcs. and
  will keep.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppy Seed Cookies #1
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs
    1/3 c  Poppy seed, washed and >>>
           Soaked in warm water.
      1 ts Vanilla or Almond flavor
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
 
  Beat eggs and sugar; add oil, poppy seeds and flavoring.  Mix in flour
  thoroughly.  Roll out on a floured board to 1/8th inch thickness.
  Cut into desired shapes and place greased cookie sheet.  Sprinkle
  tops with a little sugar and bake at 375 F. for abt. 10 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppy Seed Cookies #2
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Flour (or more)
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Poppy seeds
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Oil
      1 c  Sugar
           Juice of 1 orange
      1 ts Grated orange rind
 
  Cream sugar and eggs.  Add oil and juice and then poppy seeds.  Mix
  thoroughly.  Add dry ingredients gradually, mixing well.  Roll out a
  small amount at a time on a well floured board, to 1/8th inch
  thickness.  Cut with cookie cutter or glass into desired shapes.
  Place on greased cookie sheet and bake in a 350 F. oven for 10 to 15
  min or until nicely browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Glazed Chicken with Matzo-Nut Stuffing
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Shortening
    1/3 c  Onion, minced
    1/3 c  Celery, finely chopped
      1 cn Condensed clear chicken soup
    1/3 c  Almonds, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Egg
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 tb Orange rind, grated
      4    Matzos, broken

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Orange rind grated
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/4 c  Shortening
 
  Saute onion, celery and nuts in shortening until vegetables are
  tender. Add broken matzos and toast lightly.  Combine salt, pepper,
  egg, soup and rind in large bowl.  Add matzo mixture and mix well.
  Fill a 4 lb. chicken and place bird on a rack in an open roasting pan
  with breast side down for first 1/2 of roasting time.  Combine
  ingredients for glaze and pour over chicken.  Bake in slow oven, 325
  F., for abt. 2-2 1/2 hrs. or until browned and tender.  Baste often.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Stuffing
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Matzos
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      2    Eggs, beaten
      2 tb Onion, chopped
    1/4 ts Ginger
    1/4 ts Ginger
           Celery (opt.)
 
  Crumble matzos and sprinkle with water.  Add other ingredients.  This
  stuffing may be used for any meat or fowl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Small Potato Kugels
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Potatoes, peeled
      2 tb Chicken fat
      1    Small onion
      2 tb Matzo meal
      1    Egg, well beaten
      1 ts Water
 
  Grate potatoes into bowl of ice water.  Drain all liquid through
  collander..  Add rest of ingredients and mix well.  Put batter into
  greased cupcake tins and bake until browned in 350 F. oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Meal Doughnuts
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Doughnut
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Shortening
      1 c  Matzo meal
      1 tb Sugar
      3    Eggs
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Boil fat, water, sugar and salt.  Add the matzo meal, stirring well.
  Let mixture boil for a second.  Remove from fire and beat well.  Add
  eggs one at a time beating well after each addition.  Take bits of
  the dough into well greased hands and roll into balls 2 inches in
  diameter.  Dip finger in water and make a hole through the center of
  erach ball.  Place on a greased pan and bake at 375 - 400 F. for 1
  hr.  Roll in Confectioners' sugar while hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Bagel
 Categories: Jewish, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Oil
      2 c  Matzo meal
      4    Eggs
      2 tb Sugar
           Salt
 
  Boil water and oil together and pour hot mixture into matzo meal.  Add
  sugar and salt and let stand until cool.  Beat the eggs and pour over
  mixture.  Mix  well and let stand until hardened.  Make round balls in
  hand.  Bress finger into center to make hole.  Bake on greased tin in
  moderate oven about 350 F. until light brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Rolls
 Categories: Jewish, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Matzo meal
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
      3    Eggs
 
  Bring oil and water to a boil.  Quickly add dry ingredients and mix
  until all are evenly dampened.  Remove from heat and let cool a bit,
  at least 1/2 half hr.  Beat eggs and add to matzo meal mixture,
  beating throughly. Drop by tablespoonsful onto greased cookie sheet.
  Bake at 400 F. for 45 min. to 1 hr. or until nicely puffed and
  browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fat-Free Knaidlach
 Categories: Jewish, Low-cal/fat, Pasta
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3    Eggs (separated)
    3/4 c  Matzo meal
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Beat egg whites until stiff, add beaten yolks.  Fold in matzo meal
  and salt into eggs.  bring 4 qts. salted water to a boil.  With
  moistened hands form balls the size of a walnut and drop into boiling
  water.  Cover and boil for 20 min. or longer.
  
  Yield:  10 - 12
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Mandlen
 Categories: Jewish, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs, beaten
    2/3 c  Matzo cake meal
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Potato flour
 
  Beat eggs, cake meal, potato floour and salt.  Knead well.  Roll out
  on floured board to 1/4 inch thickness.  Cut into 1/4 inch cubes.
  Fry in deep fat heated to 375 F. until brown.  Drain--serve in soup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meat-Filled Potato Balls
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Mashed potatoes
    2/3 c  Matzo meal
      2 c  Cooked chicken or meat,>>>
           Finely ground.
      3 tb Fat
      3    Eggs
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 ts Salt
 
  Mix potatoes with fat, 2 beaten eggs, matzo meal, salt and pepper.
  Bind meat with other egg and season to taste.  To form balls, take 1
  tb. of potato, place a small quantity of meat on it and cover with
  another spoonful of potato.  Roll in floured or dampened hands to
  form a ball, being sure to cover the  meat completely.  Place balls
  on a greased pan and bake in 400 F. oven until browned.  Variation:
  Make very small and serve as hors d'oeuvres.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Omelet
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    White matzos
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/2    Onion, grated
           Boiling water
      4    Eggs
           Fat for frying
 
  Break matzos into small pieces.  Pour boiling water to cover over
  them and let stand a few minutes.  Then drain and beat all
  ingredients together very well.  Heat fat in skillet.  Pour batter
  in.  This should make 4 good sized omelets.  Can be served with
  jelly, syrup, or sour cream.
  
  Variation:  Substitute 2 c. farfel instead of matzo.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Cheese Blintzes
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs, beaten
    3/4 c  Matzo cake meal
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 lb Dry cottage cheese
      1 tb Thick cream
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  To the beaten eggs, add the salt, alternately a little of the cake
  meal and water, mixing thoroughly.  Pour into a small hot greased
  frying pan only enough batter to make a very thin pancake, tipping
  pan from side to side. Toss out on a towel, fried side up.  Make a
  number of sheets this way. Place a heaping tablespoon of cheese
  mixture on each sheet, fold sides of sheet in over mixture to form an
  envelope, and fry again on both sides until brown.
  
  To make filling:  Press cheese through a sieve, add remaining
  ingredients and beat until smooth.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Meat Blintzes
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10    Eggs
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Potato flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    3/4 lb Ground, chopped liver
      1    Small onion,chopped,browned
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Beat eggs, blend potato flour and water and add to eggs, beat.  Heat
  frying pan and using very small amounts of fat pour enough batter
  into pan to cover bottom thinly, brown bottom side only and overturn
  onto towell.
  
  Place small amount of liver on 1/2 leaf on browned side and roll up
  (like cigar size).  Fry on both size
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Carrots, grated
      6    Eggs, separated
    1/4 c  Potato starch
    1/3 c  Sweet red wine
      2 ts Lemon rind
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Matzo meal
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Beat yolks until light and gradually add sugar, beating until thick.
  Stir in carrots, matzo meal, starch and salt.  Add wine, lemon juice
  and rind, blending thoroughly.  Beat whites until stiff and not dry.
  Fold into the carrot mixture carefully.  Gently pour into  greased 2
  qt. baking dish. Bake at 350 F. for 45 minnutes.  Serve hot or cold
  as a vegetable dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      5    Med. size cooking apples
      4    Eggs, separated
    1/2 c  White raisins
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Matzo meal
 
  Peel, core and grate apples.  Sprinkle with lemon juice.  Beat yolks
  until light.  Gradually beat in sugar, continuing to beat until
  thick.  Stir in lemon juice, apples, matzo meal and raisins.  Beat
  egg whites in separate bowl until stiff but not dry.  Fold whites
  into batter and pour into 2 1/2 qt. greased casserole.  Bake at 350
  F. for 40 min.  Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grated Apple Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Large, juicy apples,grated
    1/2 c  Sifted matzo meal
           Grated peel of 1 lemon
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Blanched almonds
      8    Eggs, separated
 
  Stir the sugar and yolks well; add the grated apples, and mix well.
  Then stir in the matzo meal and the grated lemon peel.  Last add the
  stiff bveaten whites of the 8 eggs.  Bake in an ungreased spring form
  pan. Sprinkle a handful of blanched almonds on top just before
  baking.  Bake at 325 F. approx. 1 hr.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple and Matzo Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Matzos, broken in pieces
      2    Eggs, separated
      1    Apple, peeled and diced
      1 tb Shortening
 
  Cover matzos with water then squeeze out as much as possible.  Add
  apple and fat.  Beat yolks into mixture, season with salt and sugar
  to taste. Beat egg whites until stiff, fold in above gently.  Pour
  inot pre-heated, greased casserole.  Bake in slow oven (300 F.) about
  1 hr. until top has an even brown crust.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Cheese Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Large onions, grated
    1/2 lb Cottage cheese
      2    Eggs, beaten
      2 tb Butter
      5    Matzos
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Fry onions in butter until brown and let cool.  Crush matzos, soak in
  cold water for 2 minutes, drain and press out well.  Mix onions and
  matzos with cheese, eggs, and salt.  Place in greased pudding dish,
  and bake in hot oven (400 F.) until brown, about 1/2 hr.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Sponge Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      9    Eggs, separated
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
    3/8 c  Potato starch
    1/4 c  Cold water
    5/8 c  Cake flour
    1/2    Orange-juice and rind
    1/2    Lemon-juice and rind
 
  Separate eggs putting whites in mixing bowl and yolks in cold water.
  Beat whites by hand or electric mixer until stiff but not dry.
  Gradually add sugar.  Add yolks and water mixture and beat well.  Add
  juices and rinds and beat well.  Add cake flour and starch that have
  been mixed with very low mixer or by hand.  Be sure that the flour
  mixture is thoroughly blended.  Put in Angel Food cake pan and bake
  about 45 min. or until done in 350 F. oven.  (This recipe is
  "cook-friendly", easy and quick.  You can improvise by adding nuts,
  cinnamon-sugar, or other things but the basic recipe is moist and
  tasty and wonderful especially as the base for fruits.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Amocha Sponge Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7    Eggs, separated
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Finely chopped nuts
    1/4 c  Potato starch
    1/2 c  Strong coffee
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Cocoa
    3/4 c  Cake meal
 
  Pour hot coffee over finely chopped nuts.  Cool.  Add 2 tsp. cocoa.
  Beat whites with salt until they stand in soft peaks.   Add half of
  sugar in gradually beating until stiff. Beat yolks well, add rest of
  sugar beating until thick.  Add coffee mixture to yolks, blending
  well.  Add sifted meal and starch and blend.  Fold into beaten egg
  whites.  Place in tube pan and bake in 325 F. oven for 1 hr. or
  longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moist Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7    Eggs, separated
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      3 tb Cocoa
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Cake meal
    1/2 c  Nuts, chopped
 
  Beat whites with salt until they stand in peaks, but are not dry.
  Gradually add in 1/2 of the sugar.  Beat yolks very well and add
  thgerest of the sugar.  Add juice and water.  Fold this into egg
  white mixture. Then gently fold in the cake meal which has been
  sifted with the cocoa. Then fold in nuts.  Bake at 325 F. For 45 min.
  or longer.  Invert to cool and let hang until cold before removing
  from pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7    Eggs, separated
    1/4 c  Potato starch
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    3/4 c  Cake flour
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Mashed bananas
 
  Beat yolks with 1/2 cup sugar, add bananas and sifted flour and
  starch. Beat whites, andd 1/2 cup sugar and fold into yolks.  Fold in
  nuts.  Pour batter into ungreased tube cake pan.  Bake in preheated
  oven at 325 F. for about 40-50 min.  Remove, invert and hang pan
  until cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Cheese Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      1 c  Matzo meal
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg yolk

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  2 1/2 lb Cream cheese-room temp.
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      3 tb Matzo meal
 
  Combine 1 c. matzo cake meal and sugar and vanilla.  Make a well in
  center. Add egg yolk and 1/2 c. butter.  Work toghether with hands or
  mixer till well blended. Wrap in wax paper and chill in freezer abt.
  15 min. Grease spring form pan.  Roll dough out 1/8" thick and place
  over bottom of pan (use wax paper to roll dough on to keep from
  sticking to roller). Trim edges.  Bake in 400 F. Oven  for 12 to 15
  min. or until golden brown.
  
  Prepare filling, then add 5 whole eggs + 2 yolks stirring lightly
  after each addition.  Stir in 1/4 c. half and half or milk.  Pour
  batter into spring form.  Bake for 15 min at 500 F., then turn oven
  down to 200 F. and bake for abt. 1 hr.  NOT LONGER THAN 1 1/2 HRS.,
  or until knife comes out clean.  Cool.  This cake can be frozen if
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jelly Roll
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5    Eggs, separated
      1    Lemon juice and grated rind
  2 1/2 tb Potato starch
    2/3 c  Sugar
           Jam or jelly
    1/3 c  Matzo cake meal
 
  Grease jelly roll pan.  Line with waxed paper and grease it.  Sift
  cake meal and starch together with 2 tb. sugar.  Beat yolks until
  light. Gradually beat in 1/2 of remaining sugar beating until thick.
  Stir in juice and rind, then stir in siftyed dry ingredients.  Beat
  egg whites until soft peaks form and gradually add rest of sugar
  beating constantly until meringue is stiff and glossy.  Fold egg yolk
  batter into meringue blending thoroughly.  Pour into prepared pan and
  bake at 400 F. for 12 to 15 min. or untill done.  Turn out onto a
  clean tea towel and remove paper.
   Roll cake up in the towel and let set ona rack until cooled.  Unroll
  and fill with jam which has been beaten to spreading consistency.
  Re-roll cake, trim ends and place on platter.
  
  Variation:  Cake may be filled with sweetened flovored stabilized
  whipped cream or any appropriate cake filling or pudding or canned
  lemon pie filling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Jelly Roll
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Matzo cake meal
      4    Eggs, separated
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Grated rind of 1/2 lemon
 
  Beat yolks and sugar together until light, and grated rind and cake
  meal which has been sifted 4 times.  Add salt to egg whites, beat
  until stiff and fold into dough.  Line a jelly roll pan with wax
  paper, grease heavily, spread dough on evenly, and bake at 350 F. for
  12 min.  When done, lift out paper with cake an place on a damp cloth
  for a few minutes, then invert on waxed paper sprinkeled with
  powdered sugar.  Remove paper from cake, spread with jelly beaten
  smooth (or boiled frosting), and roll up. Wrap in waxed paper, then
  in the damp cloth for abt. 15 min. so that the roll will hold its
  shape.  Remove wrapping and dust with powdered sugar. Slice. Serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Cream Puffs
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Fat
      1 c  Matzo meal
    1/2 ts Salt
      4    Eggs
 
  Boil water and fat in sauce pan.  While boiling, pour in salt and
  matzo meal.  Continue coding and stirring until batter no longer
  sticks to sides of pan.  Remove from fire.  Add unbeaten eggs 1 at a
  time beating well after each addition.  Drop by tablespoonsful on a
  greased cokie sheet. Bake 25 min. at 450 F.  Reduce oven to 325 F.
  and bake 45 min. longer. When cool, cut in half and  fill with
  whipped cream, custard, fruits, etc., and sprinkle tops with
  confectioners' sugar.
  
  Yield:   12 good sized puffs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Brownies
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    1/2 lb Butter or shortening
      2    Semi-sweet baking choc.bars
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      4    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Matzo cake meal
      2 c  Sugar
 
  Melt together shortening and chocolate over hot water.  Beat eggs, add
  sugar gradually and beat until thick.  Add chocolate and shortening
  and blend well.  Fold in cake meal and nuts. Pour into a greased 8"
  square pan. Bake at 350 F. for 30 to 45 min. Cool.  Cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandel Bread
 Categories: Jewish, Bread, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs
    3/4 c  Oil
      2 tb Potato starch
    3/4 c  Finely chopped nuts
      2 tb Matzo meal
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 c  Cake meal
 
  Sift potato starch, cake meal, matzo meal, salt and cinnamon
  together. Beat eggs and sugar together.  Add oil, beating well.  Add
  sifted dry ingredients and nuts and blend well.  Refrigerate for a
  while.  Lightly oil a cookie sheet.  Shape dough on sheet into 3 x 1
  inch rolls.  Bake at 350 F. for 30 min., or until lightly browned.
  Cool slightly.  Slice rolls and place, cut side up, on cookie sheet.
  Return to hot oven after turning heat opff.  Let stand in oven until
  lightly browned and crisp.  One tablespoon lemon or orange rind may
  be added instead of cinnamon.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Filling for Cakes
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Juice of 1 orange
           Rind of 1 orange, grated
      1    Egg yolk, beaten
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Mix starch and sugar in top of double boiler.  Add  juice and rind
  and mix until there are no lumps.  Gradually add milk and water.
  Cook over simmering water, stirring constantly until thick.  Cover,
  turn heat low, and cook for 10 min.   Remove from heat.  Beat egg
  yolk with a fork. Gradually add a little of the hot sauce into the
  yolk to heat it, beating constantly with a fork to keep it from
  curdling.  Then pour mixture into double boiler and stir to blend.
  Cover and cool.  Stir once or twice during first 10 min . to release
  steam.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Beet Preserves
 Categories: Jewish, Relish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Fresh beets   OR
      2 cn Shoestring beets (12 oz.)
      1 c  Sugar
      4 oz Blanched,shredded almonds
  1 1/2    Lemons
  1 1/4 c  Honey
      1 ts Ginger (or less to taste)
 
  Boil, peel and grate fresh beets on large grater, or use shoestring
  beets. Bring sugar and honey to a rolling boil; add beets, lemon
  juice and rind. Cook 30 min.  Add ginger and cook until thick, about
  30 min. longer.  Add almonds, cook for 5 min. stirring often.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Candy
 Categories: Jewish, Candy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Grated carrots
    3/4 ts Ginger
      1 tb Orange rind, grated
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      2 lb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Nuts
    3/4 ts Lemon juice
 
  Combine carrosts, sugar, orange rind and juice.  Add salt and cook,
  stirring often.   After 5 or 10 min. add ginger and lemon juice.
  Continue cooking until a few dorps of the syrup form a firm ball in
  cold water. Remove from fire, add nuts and spread on wet board.  Cut
  candy into squares when cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Taiglach
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      6    Eggs
      1 tb Fat or oil
           Matzo meal

MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
      1 lb Honey
    1/2 lb Sugar
    1/2 tb Ginger
    1/2 lb Walnuts, chopped
 
  Beat eggs well.  Add fat and just enough meal to form a soft dough.
  Roll with hands on board sprinkled with meal, into long strips of
  finger thickness.  Cut in 1/2 inch length pcs.  Bake for 10 min. at
  350 F. in  a floured pan.
  
  Mix honey, sugar, ginger and bring to a boil.  Add pieces of baked
  dough and nuts.  Boil slowly, stirring frequently, until honey
  candies in cold water (forms a firm ball).  Pour ont a moistened
  board, flatten with hands immediately and when cold cut into squares
  of desired size.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Orange Sherbet
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      2 c  Dried apricots
    1/2 c  Orange juice
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  2 1/4 c  Water
      2    Egg whites
 
  Cook apricots and water until done.  Drain.  If there isn't two cups
  liquid left add water.  Add sugar to liquid and cook until well
  disolved. Cool. Mash apricots.  Add orange juice.  Add both to
  chilled syrup.  Put in freezer.  When firm, place in well chilled
  bowl.  Add unbeaten egg whites. Beat until fluffy.  Return to
  freezing compartment.  This recipe makes a lot of sherbet.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Brisket
 Categories: Jewish, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7 lb Brisket
      1 cn Chicken consomme
      1 pk Onion soup mix
           Kitchen boquet
           Garlic powder
           Dry mustard
      1 cn Water
      1    Beef bullion cube
           Mushrooms (opt.)
 
  Rub brisket wit a combination of dry  mustard and kitchen bouquet
  (enough to cover all sides of roast).  Sprinkle with  garlic powder.
  Place in an uncovered roaster in 325 F. oven for half of cooking time
  figuring 35-40 min. per lb.  Towards end of cooking time, heat soup,
  water, bullion cube and onion soup mix together.  Pour over roast
  which is real brown by this time.  Cover and cook until nearly
  tender.  Do not overcook, as it will be difficult to slice.  Remove
  every bit of fat from sauce.  When ready to serve, warm gravy;
  thicken with a little flour and cook until slightly thickened.  If
  mushrooms are used, add juice of mushrooms, the sliced meat and top
  with mushrooms.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Traditional Roast Brisket
 Categories: Jewish, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      5 lb Brisket
      2    Cloves garlic, halved
      2    Onions, sliced
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt, peppper, paprika
 
  Sprinkle brisket liberally with salt, pepper and paprika on both
  sides. Place meat in roasting pan and spread sliced onions, garlic
  and bay leaf over it.  Cover pan and roast at 325 F. for 2 hrs or
  until almost tender. Remove cover and baste with juices in the pan.
  Continue roasting for 1/2 to 3/4 hr. more to brown, basting
  frequently.  When tender, remove from oven.  Discard bay leaf and
  garlic.  Remove meat from pan.  Remove as much fat as possible from
  juices.  Add water to juices if necessary. Blend a little fat with
  flour and add to pan juices.  Cook, stirrring constantly until
  thickened.  Mushrooms may be added to gravy.
  
  Serves 10 to 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prizewinning Brisket
 Categories: Jewish, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      5 lb Beef brisket
      1 c  Chili sauce
      4    Stalks celery, sliced
    1/4 c  Water
      2    Onions, sliced
      1 cn Beer
 
  Place onions and celery on beef in open roaster.  Pour chili sauce
  over roast.  Add water.  Roast at 325 F. until browned, basting
  frequently. Cover and continue roasting until almost tender.  Total
  cooking time to this point should be abt. 2 1/2 hrs.  Pour beer over
  brisket, recover, and continue roasting until tender, about 1 hr.  Do
  not overcook.   Remove fat from gravy, slice meat and return slices
  to sauce to serve.
  
  Serves 8-10.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet and Sour Pot Roast
 Categories: Jewish, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Pot roast
      2    Large onions
      1    Clove garlic
    1/2 c  Clear stock
    1/3 c  Raisins
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Dark brown sugar
      2 tb Ketchup
 
  Brown beef on all sides in some fat in heavy pan.  Add onions and
  garlic, diced, and brown.  Add stock and bay leaf and simmer 1 hr ,
  covered tightly.  Add more stock if necessary.  Add ketchup, vinegar
  and sugar and simmer unil tender, adding raisins the last 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Chicken Risotto
 Categories: Poultry, Rice, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------WALDINE VAN GEFFEN VGHC42A----------------------
    3/4 c  Onion; chopped
    3/4 lb Chicken breast; slice thin
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 c  Uncooked instant brown rice
     28 oz Chicken broth
      1 tb Prepared horseradish
      4 ts Sugar
      1 md Sweet green pepper; sliced
      1 md Sweet red pepper; sliced
     14 oz Black beans; rinse, drain or
      2 c  Cooked beans
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan
 
  Saute onion and chicken in oil for 5 minutes. Add rice, broth,
  horseradish and sugar. Simmer, covered, for 15 minutes or until rice
  is tender (there should be extra liquid). Add peppers and black
  beans. Simmer for 5 minutes. Sprinkle with cheese before serving.
  Source: Newspaper
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Rice Balls
 Categories: Rice, Meat, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------WALDINE VAN GEFFEN VGHC42A----------------------
      1 c  Long-grain rice;cook,no salt
      1 c  Cooked ham; bite-sized
           Salad oil
      1 md Celery rib; chop fine
      1 sm Onion; chop fine
      6 oz Fontina cheese; shredded
    1/3 c  Frozen peas; thawed
      2 tb Parmesan
      1 tb Parsley; chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Dried bread crumbs
      1 lg Egg
     14 oz Jar diavolo or marinara
           -sauce
 
  In processor blend ham until ground. In 2tb hot oil, coook celery and
  onion until very tender. Remove skillet from heat; stir in cooked
  rice, ham, fontinia, peas, Parmesan, parsley, salt and pepper. Divide
  rice mixture into 12 equal portions. With hands, shape into a ball.
  On waxed paper, place bread crumbs. In pie plate, beat egg. Dip balls
  in egg, then into crumbs to coat. Wipe skillet clean. In same skillet
  in 1/2 c hot oil, cook balls, turning frequently, until evenly
  browned and heated through, about 15 minutes. To serve, heat sauce
  until hot. Serve rice balls with sauce. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raised Mexican Cornbread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-------------------------
      2 pk Yeast
      1 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 ts Soda
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1    Onion; chopped
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Brown sugar
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Cheddar cheese; grated
      1 c  Cream style corn
      3    Hot chili peppers; chopped
           -fine
  6 1/2 c  To 7 cups flour
    1/4 c  Margarine; melted
 
  In large bowl mix yeast, cornmeal and soda.  Set aside. In saucepan
  heat buttermilk, onion, oil, salt and sugar until very warm (130
  degrees). Stir into cornmeal mixture. Beat in eggs, then cheese, corn
  and peppers. Stir in 5 cups flour.  Turn out on lightly floured
  surface. Knead until smooth and elastic.
   Place in greased bowl, turn over.  Cover and let rise until doubled -
  about 1-1/2 hours.  Grease two loaf pans, dust with cornmeal. Divide
  dough in half. Shape loaves and place in pans. Cover, let rise until
  double (30-45 minutes).  Bake in 400-degree oven 25-30 minutes.
  Remove from pans, brush with melted margarine and let cool. Source:
  Taylor County Home Extension Clubs, Nancy Hardy
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Sprout Salad with Garlic
 Categories: Salad, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Sesame seeds
      1 lb Fresh bean sprouts
           - thoroughly washed
           -    and drained
      3 md Garlic cloves
           - peeled and minced
      2 md Scallions; trimmed & minced
      1    1" cube ginger
           - peeled and minced
      2 tb Oriental sesame oil
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Cider vinegar
      1 tb Mirin (sweet rice wine)
      2 ts Light brown sugar
      1 ts Spicy sesame oil
 
  Makes 4 to 6 Servings
  
  Fresh bean sprouts are a must for this recipe from China's Hunan
  province. The canned variety don't have the requisite crispness. Keep
  a close eye on the toasting sesame seeds so they don't burn.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 300F. Toast the sesame seeds by spreading them over
  the bottom of a pie tin. Roast for 12-to-16 minutes, stirring often,
  until they are golden. The seeds can be toasted in advance and stored
  in an airtight container. Place the bean sprouts in a large heatproof
  bowl and set it aside. In a medium-size skillet set over moderately
  low heat, stir-fry the garlic, scallions and ginger in the oil for 2
  to 3 minutes, until they are limp. Add all the remaining ingredients,
  increase the heat to moderate, then boil the mixture, uncovered, for
  1 minute to slightly reduce the liquid. Pour the boiling dressing
  over the bean sprouts, toss well, then cover the bowl and chill the
  salad for several hours. Toss again before serving.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef with Asparagus
 Categories: Chinese, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Flank steak; membrane peeled
           -=OR=- Boneless Sirloin,
           - thinly sliced against
           - the grain into
           - pieces 2-in long

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      2 ts Cornstarch
  1 1/2 tb Chinese rice wine OR
           - dry sherry
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      3 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 lb Fresh asparagus
           - sliced diagonally
           Salt; to taste
      3 tb Chicken broth
 
  COAT BEEF THOROUGHLY. Marinate 10 minutes. Heat 1 1/2 tablespoons
  peanut oil in a wok over a high flame and stir-fry the beef long
  enough to brown it lightly. Remove from wok and drain. In the
  remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons of oil, stir-fry the asparagus for a few
  seconds to coat it. Add salt and chicken broth and boil until the
  asparagus is tender-crisp (about 1 minute). Add the beef and toss it
  with the asparagus to combine them. Serve the beef immediately.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken, Asparagus and Red Pepper
 Categories: Chinese, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Boned,skinned chicken breast
      2 tb Finely minced fresh ginger
      2 md Garlic cloves
           - peeled and minced
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Sweet port or Sherry
           -=OR=- Madeira
      3 tb Sesame oil
      1 ts Chili oil
  1 1/2 lb Asparagus
      1 md Yellow onion
      1 md Red bell pepper
      1 ts Cornstarch; blended with
    1/4 c  Chicken broth
 
  POUND THE CHICKEN BREASTS as you would for scaloppine, then slice them
  crosswise at 1/2-inch intervals. Marinate chicken for 30 minutes at
  room temperature in a mixture of the ginger, garlic, soy sauce, port
  and 1 tablespoon of the sesame oil. Trim the coarse stem ends from
  the asparagus. Peel the asparagus and slice them crosswise, slightly
  on the diagonal, into 1-inch lengths. Peel and halve the onion, then
  cut each half into thin slices. Core, seed and slice the red bell
  pepper lengthwise into 1/4-inch strips. Set a wok or large skillet
  over high heat. Add the chili oil and 1 tablespoon of the remaining
  sesame oil and heat the oil for about 1 minute, until ripples appear
  on the wok bottom. Add the onion and red pepper and stir-fry the
  mixture for 1 minute. Cover the wok and allow the mixture to steam
  for 1 minute. Using a slotted spoon, remove the vegetables from the
  wok to a heatproof plate. Add the remaining sesame oil to the wok,
  pour in the chicken and marinade, and stir-fry over high heat for 2
  minutes. Blend in the cornstarch mixture, stirring it for about 1
  minute, until the sauce has thickened and becomes clear. Return the
  vegetables to the wok, toss the mixture lightly for about 30 seconds,
  and serve. Accompany the chicken with fluffy boiled rice.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlicky Pork-And-Asparagus Pancakes
 Categories: Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      4 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      5 lg Eggs; beaten until frothy
    1/2 lb Ground pork shoulder
      6 md Scallions; trimmed
           - sliced thin
           - (include some green tops)
      3 lg Garlic cloves
           - peeled and minced
      2 ts Oriental sesame oil
    1/2 lb Tender young asparagus
           -trimmed of coarse stem ends
           - peeled and cut into
           - moderately fine julienne
      2 tb Vegetable oil

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
      1    1" cube ginger
           - peeled and minced
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      1 tb Mirin (sweet rice wine)
      1 ts Hot sesame oil
 
  SIFT THE FLOUR, SALT, PEPPER and 2 teaspoons of the sugar into a large
  bowl. Make a well in the center and pour the eggs into it. Stir just
  enough to combine the ingredients. In a medium skillet set over
  moderate heat, stir-fry the pork, scallions, and two-thirds of the
  garlic in the sesame oil for 8-to-10 minutes, until the pork is no
  longer pink; do not brown the meat. Add the asparagus, toss for
  1-or-2 minutes over moderate heat, then allow the mixture to cool to
  room temperature. In a separate bowl, combine the remaining
  ingredients, except the vegetable oil, to make a dipping sauce. When
  the pork mixture is cool, stir it into the reserved batter. Heat the
  vegetable oil in a large skillet over moderately high heat until
  ripples show on the skillet bottom. Half fill a 1/4-cup measuring cup
  with the batter and drop the batter into the hot oil, evening up the
  ragged edges of the pancake. Add 3 more pancakes to the skillet,
  smoothing the edges as before, and brown them for 1-to-1 1/2 minutes
  per side. Drain them on paper towels, then keep them warm on an
  uncovered platter in a 250F oven. Fry the rest of the pancakes,
  adding more vegetable oil to the skillet if needed. Serve the
  pancakes hot with the dipping sauce.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot-And-Spicy Short Ribs
 Categories: Asian, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Beef short ribs *
           *cut in 1-in lengths
      4    Garlic cloves
           - peeled and minced
      2    1-in cubes ginger
           - peeled and minced
      3 md Scallions; trimmed & minced
    2/3 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Sesame oil
  1 1/2 ts Spicy sesame oil
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Cider vinegar
      1 tb Mirin (sweet rice wine)
    1/4 tb Freshly ground black pepper
      2 tb Toasted sesame seeds
 
  TOAST THE SESAME SEEDS by spreading them over the bottom of a pie tin.
  Roast them at 300F for 12-to-16 minutes. Stir sesame seeds often,
  until they are golden. With a very sharp knife, score the meat on
  each short rib in a crisscross pattern, making the cuts about
  3/8-inch apart and cutting almost to the bone. This will allow the
  marinade to penetrate and help tenderize the meat. Place the short
  ribs in a large shallow baking pan. Combine the rest of the
  ingredients, pour the marinade over the meat and toss well to mix.
  Cover and refrigerate the ribs for 24 hours, turning them in the
  marinade several times. When you are ready to cook the short ribs,
  preheat the oven to 325F. Arrange the ribs on a rack in a shallow
  roasting pan. Brush ribs with a little of the marinade. Roast them
  uncovered for 20 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven, turn the ribs
  and brush them with the marinade. Raise the oven temperature to 500F.
  After the ribs have stood for 10 minutes at room temperature, return
  them to the oven and roast them for 5 minutes. Turn them again, baste
  them lavishly with the marinade and roast them for 3 to 5 minutes
  longer for rare, about 8 minutes for medium-rare. Brush the ribs with
  any remaining marinade and serve them with fluffy boiled rice and a
  crisp salad.
  
  Makes 4 to 6 Servings
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minced Squab with Lettuce Cups
 Categories: Poultry, Chinese, Main dish, Appetizer, Game
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Squabs, 1 lb each
      2 tb Peanut oil
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
     10    Fresh water chestnuts
           - peeled and minced
    1/2 c  Minced bamboo shoots
      6    Chinese black mushrooms
           - soaked, squeezed dry
           -  and minced
      4    Scallions; minced
      6    Dried oysters (optional)
           -soaked, squeezed dry
           - and minced   OR
      4    -Duck liver sausages, minced
    1/2 ts Minced fresh ginger root
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
           - reduced with squab bones
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Chinese rice wine
           -or dry sherry
      1 tb Oyster sauce
      1 ts Cornstarch; dissolved in
      1 tb Chicken broth; (cold)
      2    Heads bibb lettuce
           -(or iceberg lettuce)
           -leaves carefully separated
           -into lettuce cups
 
  This is frequently served at special occasions in Chinese restaurants.
  Presented as an appetizer, it will serve 6.
  
  USING A THIN CLEAVER, cut away the wings and thigh joints and pull
  off the skin, cutting it where necessary. Set the skin aside. Bone
  the breasts. Scrape all the meat you can from the bone. Neatness does
  not count! To remove the leg meat, make a slit the length of the leg
  to the bone. Pull the meat away, cutting it off the bone where
  necessary. Remove the small but tough tendon from each leg. Bone the
  second squab, then add the bones, feet, heads and wings to 1 cup
  chicken broth and reduce the liquid to 1/2 cup. With 2 cleavers,
  start chopping the meat, until finely minced. Set aside. Thinly slice
  the squab skin. Stir-fry the skin in a little oil to render the fat
  and crisp the skin. This takes about 10 minutes. As the skin browns,
  move it up the side of the wok. Set the crisped skin aside. The
  preceding steps can be done up to 8 hours in advance. Keep the minced
  squab refrigerated if it must stand longer than 1 hour. Stir-fry the
  squab in the oil with the garlic over high heat until is is browned
  lightly. Add the remaining minced ingredients, mix them well and add
  the reduced chicken broth, sugar, soy sauce, rice wine or sherry and
  oyster sauce. Bring the mixture to a boil and stir in the cornstarch
  dissolved in broth. Stir in the crisped skin and transfer the mixture
  to a serving plate. Serve the dish surrounded by lettuce cups. Each
  diner wraps some of the squab mixture in a lettuce cup.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushu Pork
 Categories: Meat, Chinese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 tb Chinese rice wine
           -or dry sherry
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 ts Cornstarch
    1/2 lb Boneless pork butt
           -or shoulder, shredded
    1/2 c  Shredded lily stems
    1/4 c  Tree ears; soaked,
           - squeezed dry and shredded
      4    Scallions; shredded
    1/4 c  Shredded bamboo shoots
      5 tb Peanut oil
      4    Eggs; lightly beaten
      3 tb Chicken broth
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Chinese rice wine
           -or dry sherry
      1 ts Light soy sauce
      2 ts Sesame oil
           Salt to taste
 
  MARINATE THE SHREDDED PORK for 20 to 30 minutes. Prepare all the other
  shredded ingredients--tree ears, lily stems, scallions and bamboo
  shoots. Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a wok over a moderate flame
  and pour in the beaten eggs. As soon as the egg begins to cling to
  the wok, scoop it and fold it over to scramble it. Work fast because
  the egg solidifies quickly and it can overcook. As soon as it
  solidifies, remove it from the wok and set it aside. Stir-fry the
  pork over high heat in 1 tablespoon of the oil for 30 seconds, or
  until it no longer looks raw. Remove it from the wok and set it
  aside. In the remaining 2 tablespoons of the oil, stir-fry the
  vegetables, more to combine them and heat them through than to cook
  them. Add the pork and mix it well with the seasonings. Finally, add
  the eggs, breaking them up to form bite-size lumps. Combine the
  ingredients well. Serve alone or with a platter of heated pancakes
  and a small bowl of hoisin sauce. Serves 2 to 4 as a main course.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Chicken with Sausage
 Categories: Poultry, Chinese, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Roasting chicken, 4 - 4.5 lb
           - cut up
      4    Chinese pork sausages
           - thinly sliced diagonally

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Chinese rice wine
           -or dry sherry
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 ts Sugar
      1 pn Salt
 
  ARRANGE THE BACK PIECES on a heat-proof plate. Surround them with the
  rest of the chicken pieces. Between the pieces, insert thin slices of
  pork sausage. Put the breast meat on the bottom, so that it is
  surrounded by the longer-cooking dark meat. Put some water in the
  bottom of the wok. Use enough that it won't boil away, but not so
  much that it touches the plate. The food must be suspended at least 1
  inch above the water level. Cover the wok tightly so that the steam
  is captured under the lid and can circulate freely around the food.
  Keep a kettle of water on hand to replenish the steaming liquid in
  the wok if the level gets too low. Be careful not to pour the water
  onto the food.
  
  Makes 4 to 6 Servings
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yunnan Steamed Pot Chicken
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Chinese, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Chicken, cut into pieces
      1 ts Salt
      6 sl Fresh ginger
      2    Scallions
           - cut into 2" pieces
      3 c  Chicken stock
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCES----------------------------
           Light soy sauce
           Chili bean sauce
           Chopped scallions
 
  To make this soup, you can use a Yunnan ceramic steam pot, a squat,
  rounded lidded vessel with an internal spout that allows steam to
  circulate but not escape. A heat-proof casserole works almost as well.
  
  BLANCH THE CHICKEN for 3 minutes in a large pot of boiling water.
  Remove the chicken and rinse thoroughly in cold running water. Place
  the chicken pieces around the Yunnan pot or on a rack set into a
  heat-proof casserole. Sprinkle the chicken with the salt, and scatter
  the ginger pieces and scallions over the top. Pour in the chicken
  stock and rice wine or sherry. Cover and gently steam on stove for 2
  hours, replenishing the hot water from time to time if needed. Remove
  the ginger and scallion pieces. With a spoon, skim off all the
  surface fat. Ladle the soup into a tureen, and pass the chicken on a
  platter with dipping sauces.
  
  Makes 4 to 6 Servings
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asian Crepinettes
 Categories: Appetizer, Asian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground Lamb
      4 tb Fresh Asian or reg. Basil
           - (finely chopped)
      3 tb Minced Fresh Coriander
      1 tb Finely chopped Ginger
      2 ts Finely chopped Garlic
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Sichuan Peppercorns
           - roasted and ground
      2 ts Coarse. chopped dried chiles
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      2 ts Chinese sesame oil
    1/2 lb Caul fat or crepinette
 
  This is an Asian twist on a French appetizer. Caul fat can be ordered
  from your local butcher.
  
  SOAK THE CAUL FAT in a bowl of cold water; this will allow the caul
  fat to unravel easily. In a medium-sized bowl, mix the ground lamb
  with all the ingredients except the caul fat. Cut the caul fat into
  20 (5-inch) squares. Lay out a square of caul fat and place several
  tablespoons of lamb mixture onto one end. Fold the sides in to form a
  package. Repeat until you have used up all the lamb. Recipe can be
  done ahead to this point and refrigerated. Wrap the crepinettes well
  in plastic wrap and refrigerate. Approximately 40 minutes before you
  are ready to cook, make a charcoal fire and, when the coals are ash
  white, grill the crepinettes for about 8 minutes on each side, or
  until they are done (firm to the touch).
  
  Makes 6 to 8 Servings
  
  KEN HOM
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asian Porterhouse
 Categories: Meat, Bbq/grill, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Porterhouse steaks
           - about 1-to-1 1/4-lb each
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Chili bean sauce or paste
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Fish sauce
      1 tb Rice wine
      2 ts Sesame oil
 
  BRING THE STEAKS to room temperature. Sprinkle with the freshly ground
  black pepper. In a medium-sized bowl, mix all the marinade ingredients
  together and spread this evenly over each side of the steaks. Allow
  to sit and ma
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti with Garlic and Oil***
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4    Stick butter
      3 tb Chopped garlic
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
    1/2 c  White wine
           Salt and pepper to taste
     16 oz Thin spaghetti- cooked
           -according to dir.
           Gratd cheese for serving
 
  Melt the butter in olive oil. Add garlic and sautee for 5 min on low.
  Add wine and simmer for 5 min. Toss with pasta and garnish with
  parsley. Serve hot with grated cheese on the side. Serve with crusty
  bread and salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Twists with Asparagus Sauce***
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Vegetable, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Asparagus tips and tender
           -pieces (1")steamed
      2 tb Flour
      1 pt Half and half
      1 lg Flavor cube
     12 oz Pasta cooked according
           -to directions
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Grated cheese for topping
 
  Melt butter in olive oil and lightly sautee asparagus tips. Remove
  and set aside. Add flour to the pan and mix well. Slowly add the 1/2
  and 1/2 mixing well to avoid lumps. Keep on low heat. Crumble flavor
  cube and add to mixture. Mix well and salt and pepper to taste.Add
  tips and serve over hot pasta. Top with cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ziti Sausage Bake***
 Categories: Pasta, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      8 oz Ziti cooked according to
           -pkg dir.
      4    Links Italian sausage, hot
           -or sweet or both
  1 3/4 c  Half and half
  1 1/2 c  Grated Fontina cheese
    1/2 c  Diced green pepper (opt.)
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Grated Italian cheese
 
  Cook ziti according to directions and drain. Remove sausage from
  casing, crumble and brown. Drain well. Add to pasta along with diced
  pepper, 1 cup half and half, 1 cup of Fontina and grated cheese. Mix
  well. Pour into buttered 13 by 9 " pan. Cover and bake at 350 for 20
  min. Uncover and top with remaining half and half and Fontina. Bake
  another 10 min. Let stand 5 min. before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lobster or Shrimp Fra Diavolo***
 Categories: Italian, Seafood, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 lb Shrimp or lobster (raw,
           -shelled and cleaned)
      4 tb Olive oil
    1/2    Stick butter
      2    Cloves garlic crushed
           -(or more to taste)
      1    Onion chopped
      1    Hot pepper halved and seeded
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 ts Dried thyme
    1/2 c  Fresh chopped parsley
      1 ts Dried basil
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Oregano
     28 oz Can crushed tomatoes
      1 c  Red or white wine
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Melt butter in oil and sautee onion and garlic until golden. Add
  tomatoes and mix well. add all other ingredients and mix well. Simmer
  for 30 mon. Remove bay leaf and hot pepper halves. Add shrimp /and/or
  lobster and simmer 15 minutes. Turn off heat and let sit for 10 min.
  Cook pasta (your choice) according to directions. Drain and toss with
  sauce. Top with extra sauce and fish and serve immediately with
  grated cheese on the side. ***Serve with PLENTY OF BREAD AND WINE. A
  nice salad with dinner and some cold fruit after are perfect.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinara Sauce***
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 lg Onion chopped
      3    Cloves garli minced
      2 tb Tomato paste
     28 oz Tomato puree
     28 oz Can Italian tomatoes
           -crushed (by your hands)
    1/2 c  Red wine
      1 ts Dried sweet basil
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
    1/2 c  Water
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Sautee garlic and onion in oil til lightly browned.( add garlic last
  minute) Add all other ingredients and simmer 2 hours stirring often to
  prevent sticking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Risotto Milanese***
 Categories: Italian, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      1    Onion; chopped
    1/2    Stick butter
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 qt Chicken broth; (canned o.k.)
      2    Boullion cubes
  1 1/2 c  Rice; Uncle Ben`s converted
      2    Pk saffaron; can be found in
           -Italian or Spanish section)
      3    Sausages; (Optional)
    1/2 c  Cheese; grated (up 2 3/4c)
    1/2 c  White wine
 
   Melt butter in olive oil and sautee onion until golden. Remove
  sausage meat from skin and crumble up and add to onions.Brown slowly
  on med heat. In a separate pot, heat chicken broth with boullion and
  keep warm. Add rice to sausage mixture andmix well. Gradually add
  broth to rice about 1 1/2 cups at a time and cook until broth is
  absorbed.Continue this process until rice is cooked. Before the last
  cups are added add the wine and saffaron and continue to mix so it
  doesn`t stick. When the rice is done, mix in 1/2 cup of grated
  cheese. Serve hot with extra cheese on the side.
  
  This is really not hard, give it a try. It can be a meal in itself or
  a side dish. It`s great for a buffet.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brasciole***
 Categories: Italian, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
           Thin slices of beef or veal
           -(pounded to tenderize)
           Flavored bread crumbs(bread
           -crumbs,grated cheese,
           -parsley, dash of oregano,
           -dash dry basil)
      1    Egg beaten
      4 tb Olive oil per cup of bread
           -crumbs
           Salt and pepper
           Tomato sauce (enough to
           -almost cover)
 
  Pound the slices of meat as thin as possible. Make a mixture of bread
  crumbs, egg and oil. Lay meat out and lightly salt and pepper each
  piece. Place some of the mixture on each piece and spread covering
  most of the meat except the edges. Roll and secure with a toothpick.
  Lightly brown each in a bit of butter and oil. When browned place in
  oven proof dish. To the browning pan add tomato sauce and mix to get
  all flavor from bottom of pan. Pour over meat and bake in oven at 350
  for 45 min. Turn often to prevent drying.
  
  Serving suggestions.... Mashed potatoes..with a touch of garlic while
  mashing. The sauce makes a wonderful tasty gravy. A bright veg such as
  carrots or broccoli. Crust bread and a salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potatoes with Bacon & Zucchini***
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      6 lg Potatoes, boiled and skinned
      6    Slices bacon
      1 md Zucchini, sliced fairly thin
      2 tb Butter
      4 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  In a skillet, fry the bacon until almost crisp. Drain most of the
  fat. Chop the bacon and return to pan. Add sliced zuchini, butter and
  oil. Sautee until slightly soft. In a large serving bowl, slice the
  potatoes about 1/2" thick. Add bacon-veggie mixture, salt and freshly
  ground pepper and mix well. Serve hot or warm. *You may also use
  sliced onions in this recipe. Add them with the zuchini.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta E Fagioli***
 Categories: Italian, Soup/stew, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lg Onion chopped
      1    Stalk celery chopped
      1    Carrot chopped
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic chopped
      1 ts Rosemary in a sack (use a
           -coffee filter cut down and
           -tied tightly with thread)
      1 lg Bouillion cube
  1 1/2 qt Water
      1 lb Navy beans
      6 oz Tomato sauce
           Salt and pepper to taste
      6    To 8 oz ditalini pasta
 
  Melt butter in olive oil. Saute vegetables until golden. Add rest of
  ingredients and bring to boil. Lower to simmer and cook until beans
  are tender. When the beans are just soft, add 6 to 8 oz of ditalini
  according to how thick you want it and cook til tender. Serve hot
  with grated cheese on the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Broccoli Rabe***
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lg Bunch broccoli rabe, trimmed
           -(small, green flowerettes)
      4 tb Butter
      4 tb Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
           Salt and pepper to taste
      8 oz Small tubular pasta or
           -spaghetti
           Grated Italian cheese for
           -topping
 
  Cook the broccoli rabe in lightly salted water until just tender.
  Drain well. Squeeze excess water out by hand. In a large frying pan,
  melt the butter in the olive oil and sautee garlic for 1-2 min.
  Coarsly chop the broccoli rabe and add it to the pan. Sautee about 5
  min.Add salt and pepper to taste. (I like a lot of freshly ground
  pepper). Add the cooked hot pasta to the pan and toss well. Pour into
  serving dish and top with grated cheese. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Parmigiana***
 Categories: Italian, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
  1 1/2 lb Veal Cutlets sliced thin and
           -pounded (except for fish)
      4    Beaten eggs, lightly salted
           Dry bread crumbs (seasoned
           -or plain)
           Olive oil for frying
           Grated cheese and slices of
           -mozzarella (1 per cutlet)
 
  *(can be used for chicken, turkey, or fish fillets) Dip each cutlet
  into egg, breadcrumbs, and quickly into egg again. Put into hot, but
  not smoking olive oil. (If oil is too hot cutlets will burn before
  they cook; if oil is not hot enough, cutlets will soak up oil and
  breading will not stick.) Cook each one about 3-4 min. on each side
  until golden brown. Drain well on paper towels or brown bags. When
  all cutlets are done, arrange in a shallow baking dish. Ladle sauce
  on top of each one to mostly cover it, but don`t let it swim in
  sauce. Generously sprinkle with grated cheese. Top with mozzarella
  slices and bake in oven for about 20 min. until cheese melts. Serve
  hot with pasta on the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tirami Su***
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
     16    Lady fingers
      1 c  Rum or liqueur (Amaretto,
           -Frangelica)
      5    Eggs separated
  1 2/3 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 lb Mascarpone cheese, softened
      2    To 3 tbls unsweetened cocoa,
           -sifted or coarsely grated
           -bittersweet chocolate
 
  **Arrange ladyfingers on bottom of 8 by 13 rectangular dish. Pour rum
  over ladyfingers. Combine egg yolks and powdered sugar in a lg bowl
  and beat well until mixture turns pale yellow and ribbons form when
  raising beaters. Carefully stir in mascarpone until completely
  incorporated. Whip egg whites to form stiff peaks. Gradually, gently
  fold in egg whites. Pour mixture over ladyfingers and top with
  chocolate. Refrigerate 2 hours. Serve from dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tirami Su with Coffee***
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      6    Egg yolks
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Mascarpone cheese, softened
     12 oz Whipped cream or non dairy
           -topping (Cool Whip)
  1 1/2 c  Cold espresso coffee
      4 tb Brandy
           Topping- powdered unsweetend
           -cocoa
     48    Ladyfingers (2-7 oz pks)
 
  Cream yolks and sugar until smooth. Add mascarpone cheese and mix on
  low speed for 2 min. Fold in cream (or whipped topping) Combine
  coffee and brandy in a bowl. Dip 15 ladyfingers, one by one into
  brandy mixture and line up on a platter to make a rectangle about 7
  by 13 ". Cover with 1/2 the mascarpone/cream mixture. Repeat with
  another layer and top with remaining cream mixture. Sift chocolate on
  top. With remaining ladyfingers, cut them in half and arrange arround
  your rectangle with cut side down. The cream acts as a "glue". Mrs. G.
         FOOD AND WINE CLUB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 04/18 5:34 PM
  
  TO:      ALL FROM: PATTI ANDERSON (VDRJ67A) SUBJECT: CASSEROLES FOR
  BOB
  
  Saw your request for casseroles to Auntie Elaine. Thought I would
  start you out!!!!!!! This is but a beginning my friend!!!!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Escarole Soup***
 Categories: Italian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
           Chicken Stock:
      3    To 4 lbs chicken necks,
           -wings, and backs
     10 c  Water
      1    Onion , chopped
      2    Stalks celery
      2    Sprigs parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Simmer all ingredients in a large pot for 2 1/2 hours. Strain though
  a fine cheesecloth.
  
  1 lg head of escarole washed well and chopped coarsly. Bring broth to
  a simmer in a large enough pot to hold soup and escarole. Add
  escarole and simmer 15 min. Serve hot with grated cheese topping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Quiche***
 Categories: Italian, Appetizer, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1    Deep dish frozen pie crust
      5 lg Eggs
    1/2 c  Ricotta
    1/2 c  Grated cheese
      3    Sausage links (skinned,
           -cooked and drained well)
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Pre-bake pie shell. Place sausage on bottom of crust. Blend eggs and
  cheeses and seasoning. Pour over sausage and bake 350 for 45 min or
  until center is almost firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Parma Casserole***
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 lg Firm eggplants
           Oil for frying
      3    Eggs
      2 c  Flavored breadcrumbs
      2 lb Ricotta
      8 oz Mozzarella
    3/4 c  Grated cheese
      3    To 4 c marinara sauce
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Peel and slice eggplant (1/4 "). Beat eggs with dash of salt. Heat
  oil in pan til hot but not smoking. Dip each slice of eggplant in egg
  and bread crumbs and fry til golden. Drain well. Continue til all are
  fried. In an ovenproof dish (8x14 or larger) Place enough sauce to
  cover pan. Make layer of eggplant by placeing in sauce and turning to
  coat on both sides. Add a bit more sauce. Cover with dabs of ricotta
  and slices of mozzarella. Dip each nest slice of eggplant in sauce to
  coat and continue process until you have about three layers. Top with
  extra sauce and cheese. Bake in oven at 350 for 1 hour. 1/2 covered
  lightly, 1/2 uncovered. When you remove it from the oven let it sit
  for 15 min. before serving. Serve with crusty bread and a salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New England Clam Chowder***
 Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 cn Whole baby clams (8 oz)(use
           -juice for part of liquid)
    1/4 lb Salt pork diced (or bacon)
      1 lg Onion chopped
      4    Potatoes peeled and diced
      5 c  Liquid (water & clam juice)
      4    Heaping tbls flour
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Fresh chopped parsley
           Pinch of thyme
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  **Saute salt pork on med heat until golden brown. Add onion and saute
  on low until golden. Add potatoes and saute another 2 min. Add
  liquid, thyme and parsley.Cover and cook 20 min. In a jar, add flour
  to milk and shake well. Lower the heat on the soup and gradually add
  milk and flour mixture to soup stirring constantly. Cook on low heat
  15 min stirring often. When soup has thickened, turn the heat off and
  add the clams. Cover and let stand 5 minutes. Serve in bowls with a
  dot of butter on the top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Barley Soup***
 Categories: Italian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      3 lb Beef shin-(or more)
      2    Carrots diced
      2    Stalks celery diced
      2    Onions chopped
      2    Cloves garlic crushed
      1    White turnip diced
      1 lg Parsnip diced
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
  1 3/4 qt Water.
     16 oz Can peeled tomatoes - crush
           -by your fingers
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 c  Pearl barley
 
  Place all ingredients, except barley, in a large pot. Bring to a boil.
  Lower to simmer and cook 2 1/2 hours. Add barley and cook until
  tender, Check package of barley for approximate timing. The meat can
  be served as a side dish to the soup with a dressing of mayonnaise
  and horseradish. Serve a crusty bread also. Makes a great one dish
  meal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed Fried Fish***
 Categories: Seafood, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
  1 1/2 lb Fresh or frozen small squid
      1 lb Fresh med. shrimp
      1 lb Fresh or frozen smelts or
           -any other small small fish
           Olive oil for frying
           Salt to taste
           Lemon wedges for serving
 
  Defrost and clean the fish if necessary. Dredge all pieces in flour by
  shaking them in a sturdy bag with the flour. Bring the oil to a high
  heat (425) Drop the fish a few at a time into the oil so the pan is
  not full. Scoop out with a slotted spoon and drain on brown paper.
  Lightly salt immediately. Serve on a hot platter with lemon wedges.
  Serving suggestions
  
  Spaghetti w/ garlic and oil fresh green salad crispy Italian bread
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet & Sour Puff Batter & Sauce***
 Categories: Appetizer, Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Veg oil
           Sweet and Sour Sauce:
      1    Carrot sliced thin
      2    Scallions 1 " pieces
      1 c  Pinapple chunks
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Pinaple juice
    1/2    Green pepper diced
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Cold water
 
  Dip chunks of chicken or fish in batter and fry in hot oil until
  golden. Drain and set aside. For the sauce combine all ingredients
  except peppers, cornstarch and water. Bring to a boil, lower heat and
  simmer 10 min. Add green pepper and simmer 2 more min. Combine water
  and cornstarch and thicken mixture stirring well. Pour over chicken
  or fish. Serve with rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Best Choc Mousse***
 Categories: Dessert, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      4    Eggs -separated
    1/4 c  Confectioners sugar
     12 oz Whipd topping like Cool Whip
           Ground nuts for topping
 
  Melt chocolate chips slowly and carefully so they do not burn. Try the
  microwave. Let cool slightly. Beat egg whites with sugar until stiff
  peaks form. Into the cooler chocolate beat the egg yolks one at a
  time to make a nice creamy mixture. Now fold the whipped topping,
  then the egg whitres....GENTLY....If you like, let it have a streaked
  appearance, a marble-like look. Place into a pretty serving dish and
  sprinkle with nuts. Refrigerate at least 2 hours before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Florentine Style
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
  2 1/2 lb Fresh spinach; (or 3
           -10 oz pk frozen leaf)
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      3 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk; (warmed)
           -salt
           -and pepper to taste
 
  I did some research on Florentine, and decided there is no one recipe
  to follow, so I`ll give you my version. The florentine part of tne
  recipe is basically a bed of spinach. The meat is varied, such as
  fried fish, veal cutlets, sliced steak. pork cutlets, chicken
  cutlets. Use your imagination.
  
  Wash and cook the spinach in a small amount of water. Drain well
  (squeeze with hands when cool enough), chop coarsely. In a large pan
  melt butter in olive oil and when hot add spinach and fry lightly.
  Season with salt, pepper, + nutmeg. Sprinkle in the flour, add the
  warm milk and stir. Simmer for a few minutes. Transfer to a baking
  dish and keep warm in oven. Prepare meat or fish. When ready top the
  spinach with the meat and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tagliatelle with Caviar and Cream***
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
  1 1/4 c  Heavy cream
      1 sm Jar caviar
      2 tb Butter
           A couple of sage leaves or
           -1 ts dried sage powder
      1 lb Thin noodles, Pref. fresh
    1/4 c  Cognac
           Grated cheese
 
  Pour cream into saucepan, add caviar and simmer over low heat 10 min.
  DO NOT BOIL!Add butter,sage and cognac and cook for 2 min on low.
  Serve over hot cooked pasta with cheese on the side for topping. This
  is a great starter for a fish dinner or used as a side dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Amaretto Compote***
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Pitted prunes
      1 c  Dried appricots
      2 md Red pears, cored and sliced
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Amaretto
      1 ts Shredded lemon peel
 
  In a medium saucepan combine water, prunes, and apricots. Bring to a
  boil. Remove from heat and let stand for 15 min. Drain, reserving 1/2
  cup liquid. Leave prunes and apricots on the side. In the 1/2 cup
  liquid, combine pears, Amaretto, sugar and lemon peel. Cover and
  simmer 10 minutes until the pears are crisp-tender. Stir in prunes
  and apricots and heat through. Serve warm over vanilla ice-cream or
  frozen yogurt. Also makes a wonderful topping for pound cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Sponge Slices***
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 c  Mascarpone
    1/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Brandy
     11 oz Chocolate (your preference-
           - I like semi-sweet)
      4    To 5 tb water
           Filberts- toasted & crushed
 
  Beat the mascarpone, sugar and brandy with a wooden spoon. Cut a
  sponge cake into little rectangles. Spread with mascarpone mixture
  and top with another slice of cake to make a sandwich. Lightly press
  together. In a double boiler, melt the chocolate with water. Remove
  from heat and before it cools dip the little sandwiches and coat on
  all sides. Use a fork to hold and a spoon to drip the choc. to cover
  all spots. Place on serving dish and sprinkle with the chopped nuts.
  Refrigerate to harden outside. Serve almost at room temp.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee Tirami Su***
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      6    Egg yolks
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Mascarpone cheese, softened
     12 oz Whipped cream or non dairy
           -topping (Cool Whip)
  1 1/2 c  Cold espresso coffee
      4 tb Brandy
           Topping- powdered unsweetend
           -cocoa
     48    Ladyfingers (2-7 oz pks)
 
  Cream yolks and sugar until smooth. Add mascarpone cheese and mix on
  low speed for 2 min. Fold in cream (or whipped topping) Combine
  coffee and brandy in a bowl. Dip 15 ladyfingers, one by one into
  brandy mixture and line up on a platter to make a rectangle about 7
  by 13 ". Cover with 1/2 the mascarpone/cream mixture. Repeat with
  another layer and top with remaining cream mixture. Sift chocolate on
  top. With remaining ladyfingers, cut them in half and arrange arround
  your rectangle with cut side down. The cream
  
  around the edges of the layers acts as a "glue". Refrigerate for
  about 4 hours. To serve, cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tirami Su 1***
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
     16    Lady fingers
      1 c  Rum or liqueur (Amaretto,
           -Frangelica)
      5    Eggs separated
  1 2/3 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 lb Mascarpone cheese, softened
      2    To 3 tbls unsweetened cocoa,
           -sifted or coarsely grated
           -bittersweet chocolate
 
  **Arrange ladyfingers on bottom of 8 by 13 rectangular dish. Pour rum
  over ladyfingers. Combine egg yolks and powdered sugar in a lg bowl
  and beat well until mixture turns pale yellow and ribbons form when
  raising beaters. Carefully stir in mascarpone until completely
  incorporated. Whip egg whites to form stiff peaks. Gradually, gently
  fold in egg whites. Pour mixture over ladyfingers and top with
  chocolate. Refrigerate 2 hours. Serve from dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tripe***
 Categories: Italian, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      3 lb Honyeycomb tripe
      4 tb Butter
      4 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion sliced
    1/3 c  Fresh chopped parsley
      8 oz Can tomato sauce
      1 c  Water
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Parboil the tripe for about 1 hour. When cool enough to handle, cut
  into strips about 1"by 3". Saute onion in butter and olive oil. When
  they are golden add the rest of the ingredients andmix well. Simmer
  for 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until tender. If needed, add a bit more water
  at the end to make just a bit of sauce to soak up with some good
  crusty bread. Serve hot with grated cheese on the side. Don`t forget
  the bread.
   Variation: with a few minor adjustments, you can use this as a pasta
  sauce. Cut the tripe a bit smaller and add about 4 more oz of tomato
  sauce and 1/2 cup of dry wine, white or red. This will give you more
  sauce for the spaghetti. Don`t forget to adjust the salt and pepper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Quiche
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      1    Deep dish frozen pie crust
    1/3 c  Ham, bacon, fish,(sauteed)
      4    Eggs
    1/2 c  1/2-1/2
    1/2 c  Grated cheese
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Pre-bake the pie crust til golden brown. Layer the meat on the bottom
  of the crust after it is browned. In a blender mix the eggs, cheese,
  1/2 and 1/2 and seasoning. Pour into the pie shell over the meat and
  bake for 40 min. at 350.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bacon & Pepper Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
    1/3 lb Bacon
      1    Green pepper diced
      1    Red pepper diced
      1    Onion chopped
      2    Cloves garlic chopped
    1/3    Stick butter
      4 tb Olive oil
     10    Plum tomatoes chopped
    1/4 c  White wine
      1    Hot pepper halved and seeded
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Sautee bacon until almost crisp. Drain. Add butter and oil. Sautee
  onion and garlic.Add peppers and sautee 5 min. Add tomatoes and wine,
  cook 15 min. REMOVE HOT PEPPER. Season with salt and pepper and serve
  over pasta.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Batter Fried Zucchini
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
 
  Get the ready made pancake batter mix and mix it with enough water to
  make a thick batter. Slice the zucchiniabout 1/8 thick. Heat the oil
  to hot but not smoking, Dip each slice of zucchini in the batter and
  fry until golden on each side, salt while you drain. Make 2 times
  what you need because they will be eaten as you fry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrots
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Carrots peeled & sliced thin
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
 
  Scrape carrots and slice thin. Melt butter in oil in pan. When
  combination of butter and oil is hot add carrots and mix well. Let
  carrots stick a bit to the bottom and sautee to bring out the natural
  sugar. Add parsley and salt and pepper. Simmer until carrots are
  cooked but still firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lasagne Rollups
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
 
  8 lasagne noodles (San Giorgio if possible or an imported) *Cook
  noodles until easy to work with but very al dente. Drain on flat
  cloth to get rid of exess moisture.
   Filling: 1 lb ricotta 4 oz grated mozzarella 1/2 cup grated Ital.
  cheese 1/2 pk frozen chopped spinach, cooked and drained well 1 egg
  salt and pepper to taste Sauce: Any meat, marinara or jarred sauce if
  you prefer. I prefer homemade. There is a marinara sauce posted that
  is easy and good. I will post a meat sauce befor the end of the day.
   Assembly: Mix filling ingredients together well. On each wide noodle
  place filling along entire strip leaving 1" at each end. Gently roll
  each noodle carefully keeping the filling inside. In a rectangular
  dish, cover bottom with sauce. Place roll-ups side by side. Pour
  enough sauce over top to partially cover. Seal with foil. Bake at 375
  for 45 min. For a special topping use a white sauce or what is called
  "bachemal".
   Low-Fat-Conversion: ricotta-Polly-o no fat mozzarella-Polly-o no fat
  grated cheese-Alpine lace Lite grated Parma egg- egg beaters or 2 egg
  whites sauce- any homemade without oil, butter or meat or Healthy
  choice.
  
  This may be frozen in individual portions before or after cooking.
  Have a meal on hand when you don`t have time to fuss.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Risotto Verde (Green Rice)
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Rice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Thin asparagus
    1/2    Stick butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion chopped
      1 qt Chicken broth
      2 c  Water from cooking the
           -asparagus(strained)
  1 1/2 c  Rice (Uncle Ben`s)1/2 c
           -grated cheese+
 
  Clean and trim asparagus and cook in lightly salted water until
  tender. Carefully remove the tender tips (1" + 1" again) reserve on
  the side. In a blender puree the rest of the stems with some of the
  water and strain . Add enough of the water to make the required 2
  cups of liquid. Melt butter in oil and sautee the onion. Add the
  rice, mix and gradually add the asparagus broth until all absorbed.
  Continue addin the chicken broth until the rice is cooked. Stir often
  to avoid sticking. When done gently mix in grated cheese and
  asparagus tips. Serve Hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Mushroom Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Fresh mushrooms slicd evenly
           -(try an egg slicer)
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 c  White wine
      1 lb Pasta, cooked and drained
           Grated cheese
 
  Sautee mushrooms in melted butter until golden. Stir in wine,
  parsley, salt and pepper. Cook for 10 min. on med heat. Add heavy
  cream and take off heat. Serve over hot pasta with cheese on the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Sauce (Red)
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 cn Minced, chopped or whole
           -baby clams
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Butter
      4    Cloves garlic chopped
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1 tb Fresh chopped parsley
     28 oz Can of tomato puree
    1/2    Of 28 oz can crushed
           -Italian tomatoes
    1/2 c  White wine
      1 c  Liquid from clams
 
  Melt butter in olive oil and saute garlic til golden. Add all other
  ingredients except clams and simmer 1 1/2 hours. Add salt and pepper
  to taste. When done, add clams. Serve over cooked spaghetti.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam Sauce (White)
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 cn Minced,chopped or baby clams
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      4 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Fresh chopped parsley
    1/2 c  White wine
      1 c  Clam juice
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
   Melt butter in olive oil. Saute garlic 1 minute. Add clam juice &
  wine & cook on low heat 5 min. Add clams and parsley salt and pepper
  to taste. Be careful with the salt, clams have a lot of natural salt.
  Pour over cooked thin spaghetti and serve immediately with a green
  salad and Crusty bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Lasagne
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 lg Firm eggplants
           Oil for frying
      3    Eggs
      2 c  Flavored breadcrumbs
      2 lb Ricotta
      8 oz Mozzarella
    3/4 c  Grated cheese
      3    To 4 c marinara sauce
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Peel and slice eggplant (1/4 "). Beat eggs with dash of salt. Heat
  oil in pan til hot but not smoking. Dip each slice of eggplant in egg
  and bread crumbs and fry til golden. Drain well. Continue til all are
  fried. In an ovenproof dish (8x14 or larger) Place enough sauce to
  cover pan. Make layer of eggplant by placeing in sauce and turning to
  coat on both sides. Add a bit more sauce. Cover with dabs of ricotta
  and slices of mozzarella. Dip each nest slice of eggplant in sauce to
  coat and continue process until you have about three layers. Top with
  extra sauce and cheese. Bake in oven at 350 for 1 hour. 1/2 covered
  lightly, 1/2 uncovered. When you remove it from the oven let it sit
  for 15 min. before serving. Serve with crusty bread and a salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arrabbiata-Style Spagheti
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Chitterlings mixed with
           -pork (ask butcher)
     10    Shelled walnuts (Puree with
           -a little oil)
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      4    Cloves garlic (crushed)
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 ts Red paprika
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/3 c  Raisins
      1 lb Spaghetti
           Grated cheese
 
  *Clean and chop chitterlings. Heat oil in pan. When hot fry
  chitterlings and pork with garlic, paprika and pepper for 5 min.
  Blanche raisons, drain and add to pan with walnut puree. Add wine.
  Stir well and puree in blender until smooth. Serve over hot cooked
  spaghetti. Top with cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettucini Alfredo
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1    Stick sweet butter
    1/2 lb Chopped ham
      1 pt Heavy cream
      1 pt 1/2 and 1/2
    3/4 c  Parmegiana cheese
     12 oz Fettucini noodles (green are
           - best - the fresher the
           - better)
 
  In a pan, saute the ham in butter for 5 min. Turn off heat. Add the
  rest of ingredients and serve with HOT pasta. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroni with Ham and Asparagus
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 c  Asparagus tips and stems
           -steamed (1" pieces,tender
           -only)(fresh only)
    1/4 c  Butter
      2    Med onions chopped
    1/2 lb Ham diced
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 lb Macaroni cooked according to
           -directions
           Grated cheese (parmigiana)
 
  Saute onions in butter until pale in color. Add asparagus and ham and
  saute for 2 min. Keep heat low and add heavy cream. After 30 seconds
  turn OFF heat.(don`t get the cream too hot or it will separate). Pour
  over hot cooked pasta and toss with cheese. Serve with extra cheese
  on the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bolognese Sauce (Meat Sauce)
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Chopped beef
    1/2 lb Chopped pork or sausage meat
      4 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion chopped
      2    Cloves garlic crushed
      1    Carrot grated
      1    Stalk celery grated
      2 tb Tomato paste
     28 oz Can tomato puree
     28 oz Can Italian tomatoes,
           -crushed by hand
      2 c  Water
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  In a large pot lightly brown garlic in olive oil and discard. Add
  onion, celery and carrot and saute until translucent. Add meat and
  lightly brown stirring often. Add tomato paste and simmer 1 min. Add
  tomatoes, tomato puree and water and simmer 1 1/2 to 2 hours stirring
  often. Salt and pepper to taste. Serve over cooked hot pasta or rice.
  *option-instead of 2 cups water, you may add 1 cup water and 1 cup
  red wine (dry)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caponata
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Eggplant diced
           Salt
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 lg Onions chopped
      2 lg Stalks celery chopped and
           -par-boiled
      1 c  Pitted green olives
      2 c  Skinned, seeded, chopped
           -tomatoes (canned if you
           -like)
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Capers(jarred)
 
  *Place diced eggplant in colander, sprinkle with salt and let sit
  over bowl for 1 hour. Rinse, drain and dry. Heat 1/2 the oil in pan
  until hot but not smoking. Fry eggplant until golden on all sides.
  Drain well. Heat rest of oil and fry onions until golden. Add celery,
  olives, tomatoes, salt, pepper and cook 5 min. Add sugar, vinegar,
  and capers and cook for 10 min. Remove from heat. Serve cold with
  crusty bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bouillabaise
 Categories: Italian, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Fin fish (red snapper,
           -flounder, trout)
    1/2    To 1 lb shrimp, lobster,
           -scallops,crab meat-any or
           -all
     18 sm Clams, mussels, or lobster
           -claws-any or all
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 lg Onion finely chopped
      2    Shallots minced
      4    Cloves garlic finely chopped
     28 oz Can tomatoes (coarsely
           -chopped) with liquid
      2 c  Fish stock, clam juice or
           -chicken broth
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Each thyme, basil, saffron
           Pepper to taste
           Fresh chopped parsley for
           -garnish
 
  Cut boneless pieces of fish into bite size pieces. Remove shells from
  shrimp, lobster, crab. Scrub clams and mussels. Saute onions, garlic
  and shallots in oil on low heat until lightly golden. In a large pot,
  put in all liquids and seasonings except parsley. Bring to a boil.
  Lower heat and simmer 15 minutes. Add all seafood, mix and simmer 10
  minutes. Serve hot in large bowls. Top with parsley. Serve with
  crusty bread, semi-soft cheese and a tossed salad.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2 lb Sausage removed from skin
           -and broken up
      1 md Onion chopped
      2    Cloves garlic crushed
      3 tb Olive oil
     28 oz Can crushd tomatoes or puree
      1 c  Dry wine
           Salt and pepper
           Grated cheese
 
  Saute onion and garlic in oil. Discard garlic. Add sausage meat and
  brown. (discard some of the grease if it looks too fatty)Add tomatoes
  and wine and simmer for 1 hour. Add salt and pepper to taste and
  simmer another 15 min. This is great over polenta topped with cheese.
  It`s also great over pasta. If the sauce seems a bit too thick, add
  water, wine or broth. Serve with a crisp salad and crusty bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easter Lamb
 Categories: Italian, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1    Bulb of fresh fennel (anise)
      4 tb Chopped garlic or more
           -if you like
           Salt and plenty of fresh
           -ground pepper
 
   Get a leg of lamb and ask the butcher to bone it and butterfly it
  for you. Do not let him tie it in a roast but ask him for some
  butcher string so you can do it by yourself. When you get the lamb
  home, try to remove as much fat from the inside as possible if the
  butcher didn`t clean it well. Now you are going to make your own
  roast of boneless lamb.
  
  To begin...Lay the meat out flat on a large clean surface skin side
  down. Cut off the fuzzy top of the fennel and wash thoroughly. cut
  into 4" stalks using everything (save the bulb) Cover the meat first
  with salt and pepper. Spread the garlic all over the meat. Lay the
  pieces of fennel next spread over the meat. Now roll up like a
  jellyroll and start tying with the string about 2 " apart. Get it as
  tight as you can. Then tie it lengthwise tucking the ends in. Place
  in a roasting pan and lightly oil top and sides. Salt an pepper the
  roast. Cut the fennel bulb into chunks and drizzle with about 2 tbls
  of melted butter or oli. Bake at 350 for about 1 hour covered. Turn
  every 1/2 hour. Remove cover and continue to bake 1 hour uncovered.
  Before the last 1/2 hour add 1/2 cup white wine. When done, remove
  the meat to a warm platter. Do not cut too early, lamb gets cold
  fast. Put the roasting pan on top of the stove and make a gravy with
  the drippings. Add flour and water. You may even use a bit more wine
  or broth, adjust for salt, strain and serve on the side for the meat
  or mashed potatoes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polenta with Fontina
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
           Ingredients:
           Prepared polenta
           Fontina Cheese
           Melted Butter
           Salt & pepper
 
  After making the polenta pour into a dish and let cool until
  hardened. Cut into 1" slices. In an ovenproof buttered pan cover
  bottom with slices of polenta. Cover that with a generous layer of
  Fontina cheese. Top with another layer of polenta. Brush with melted
  butter. Lightly salt and pepper the top. Bake in oven 475 until
  golden brown. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice with Cabbage
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Rice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 md Head of cabbage
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
      4 oz Tomato sauce (canned)
      2    Cloves garlic chopped
      2 lg Flavor cubes, your choice
           -of flavor
  1 1/2 c  Uncle Ben`s converted rice
      6    To 8 cups water
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Grated cheese for topping
 
  In a large pot, melt the butter in the oil and lightly saute garlic.
  Chop the head of cabbage fine. About 1" wide 3" long. Put all cabbage
  in with the garlic. Mix well to coat cabbage. Put 1/2 cup water in
  with cabbage and partially cover. Cook until cabbage is tender and
  lightly browned in spots. Next add tomato sauce and mix well. Add
  rice and mix well again. In a separate pot have the water and cubes
  on a med heat with cubes disolved. Gradually add this liquid while
  rice is cooking. Add a ladel at a time and wait for it to be
  absorbed. Continue until rice is cooked. Make sure to mix often to
  stop from sticking. Season with salt and pepper and serve hot with
  grated cheese. This can be used as a main dish, first course or as a
  side dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Fish
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           G GRANAROLI   (XBRG76A)
           Pancake mix, complete
           Water
           Oil
           Fish fillets
 
  Add enough water to some pancake mix to make a somewhat thick batter.
  Heat some oil in a frying pan until hot but not smoking. Dip the
  fillets into the batter and right into the hot oil. By the time the
  outside is crispy and golden the inside will be done. It only takes
  about 1-2 min. on each side. Drain well on paper towels and serve
  with a tarter sauce or a hot cocktail sauce or, do what I do and
  serve both!
  
  04/25 09:08 pm:Cookin` and Lovin` it! Mrs. G.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gnocchi***
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           - G Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      8 lg Baking potatoes
      4 lg Eggs
  2 1/2    To 3 cups flour
      2 ts Salt
 
  boil potatoes in skins until just tender. while hot, remove skins and
  press through potato ricer in a large mound on a floured surface.
  Make a well in the middle and crack eggs into it. Sprinkle salt
  around, and add 2 1/2 cups flour around it. Mix eggs in well gently
  encorporating potato and flour with it. Mix with hands into a ball
  and add more flour to until dough is not sticky. Place dough on the
  side on a floured surface. Clean and flour surface well. Cut a piece
  of dough off and roll into a long snake-like form. (about 1 inch
  around. Cut into 1 inch pieces and pus aside onto floured surface
  again to prevent sticking to board or to each other. When all pieces
  are cut, make grooves by gently rollin the off the grating side of a
  cheese grater at the same time making an indentation with the thumb,
  They need not be perfect, just enough groove to hold some sauce. Have
  a very large pot of salted water boiling. Place half of the gnocchi
  into the boiling water, stir briefly and cover. When water reboils
  remove cover. When gnocchi rises to the top. remove with a large
  slotted strainer and place in serving bowl with sauce of your choice.
  Mix gently and cover. Repeat with last batch, add more sauce and
  serve-MrsG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Hints***
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
 
  I'm not at all good with desserts. My favorite thing after a big meal
  is fruit. I know, you`re going to say "how boring!"Just give me a
  chance. I have some tricks in my apron pocket! I`ll give you just a
  few ideas now.
  
  GRAPES...why not run them under cold water, dust with regular sugar
  and put them in the freezer for an hour? They won`t last long enough
  on your table to defrost. Try mixing a bowl of different colored
  grapes.
  
  PEACHES....Take about 1 peach per person, especially in the
  winter.(These Chili fruits look great, but their flavor is missing
  something.) Slice them in wedges, sprinkle with cinnamon, add a tbls
  of some liqueur, any flavor and cover and cook in the microwave for
  5-7 min. Serve as you would applesauce with a pork roast. It`s great
  with any roast. You can also make a mixture of fruits for this, pear,
  nectarine,plums...use your immagination. STRAWBERRIES.....The season
  is coming soon and I want you all prepared for this one. It`s the
  best. I can`t tell you how much to make for how many people, because
  no matter how much you make it will NEVER be enough. Wash strawberrys
  well, THEN take off the top or any bruises. (you don`t want to wash
  away any flavor) cut each one in half or thirds if you must. Place in
  a large bowl that has a secure cover or a large jar. Add a few tbls
  sugar and the juice of a fresh lemon or two. Fill your container 2/3
  nearly covering berries.Place the cover on and shake gently. Place in
  refrig for at least 6 hour turning and shaking every hour or so. You
  need not serve anything else with this, just make sure to provide
  juice glasses and a ladle when the berries are done. Then just sit
  back and relax.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rigatoni a la Vodka***
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
  1 1/2 c  Plain tomato sauce
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 lb Bacon diced
    1/3 c  Vodka
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1    Packet bouillion
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 lb Rigatoni
           Grated cheese(parmagiana)
 
  Lightly sautee bacon. Drain except for 2 tbls drippings. Add butter
  and simmer on low heat for 3 min. Add vodka and tomato sauce and
  simmer 5 min. Add cream. salt and pepper and keep warm(never cook
  with cream on high heat-it will separate) Cook macaroni according to
  directions. Drain well, mix with sauce, top with cheese and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Four Cheese Sauce***
 Categories: Pasta, Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G Granaroli XBRG76A
      2 oz Mozzarella
      2 oz Gruyere
      2 oz Fontina
      2 oz Mild Provolone
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/2 ts Flour
  1 1/8 c  Milk
     12 oz Pasta
           Salt
           Pepper
           Grated cheese
 
  Heat half the butter in a pan. When it melts add the flour. When it
  begins to bubble add the milk and mix well. Cook on low for 5 min. It
  will start to thicken. Mix often to avoid lumping and sticking. Cut
  all the cheese into smallstrips. Gradually add the cheese mixing well
  while it melts into a velvety sauce. Season with salt and pepper and
  serve over hot, cooked pasta of your choice. Top with grated cheese.
  **You may vary some of the cheeses, but never the Fontina. That is
  the essential flavor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linguine Gamberini (Garlic Shrimp Sauce)
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Seafood, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------ALYCE MANTIA - KRBS41A------------------------
      1 lb Shrimp; peeled, deveined
      3    Cloves garlic; finely minced
      1    Onion; finely chopped
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Dry Marsala
      1 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Italian parsley; minced
           Salt and pepper
      1 lb Linguine
 
  Heat olive oil in a large skillet.  Add garlic and stir for 30
  seconds. Add onion and cook until transparent, stirring occasionally.
  Add flour and stir until well mixed.  Whisk in the broth, wine and
  parsley. Bring to a boil and cook for a couple of minutes, stirring
  constantly. Lower heat to medium and add shrimp; cook until shrimp
  are just pink and done. Serve over pasta, cooked according to package
  direction.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oranges with Sweet Basil Zabaglione
 Categories: Italian, Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------ALYCE MANTIA - KRBS41A------------------------
      8 lg Navel oranges
      5    Basil sprigs
    1/2 c  Basil leaves; packed
      2    Egg yolks
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
 
  Using a vegetable peeler, remove a strip of zest from one of the
  oranges and chop enough to measure 1/4 tsp. Using a knife, peel skin
  and pith from oranges and cut in between the membranes to remove the
  sections. Using hands, lightly crush the basil sprigs and toss in a
  large bowl with the orange sections.  Cover and chill 2-6 hours.
  Mince the 1/2 cup basil. In a medium bowl combine the egg yolks,
  sugar, wine and reserved orange zest. Place over a saucepan of
  simmering water and whisk until the zabaglione is frothy, thick, and
  doubled in volume, about 5 minutes. Stir in the minced basil.  Drain
  the orange sections and remove basil sprigs. Divide among 3 dessert
  dishes and spoon a heaping tablespoon of zabaglione over each one.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Mozzarella
 Categories: Italian, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Mozzarella sliced thin
      2    Cloves garlic finely chopped
           -( or jarred)
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Dried sweet basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Salt and pepper
    1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 ts Fresh chopped parsley
 
  Mix all spices in olive oil. Let stand for about 15 min. Slice cheese
  as thin as possible and place on a platter over decorative lettuce
  (red leaf or green leaf) with anchovies and/or roasted peppers. Pour
  spiced mixture over cheese and serve with toasted Italian bread. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti with Bacon & Egg
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
    1/2 lb Bacon
      4    Eggs-beaten
    1/2 c  White wine
      3 tb Unsalted butter
           Pepper to taste
     12 oz Thin spaghetti
    1/2 c  Grated Italian cheese
 
  Cook bacon until lightly crisp. Drain and reserve 2 tbls drippings.
  Coarsly chop bacon and leave on the side. Melt butter in bacon
  drippings, add wine and pepper and simmer 5 min. Cook spaghetti
  according to directions. Add bacon to butter-wine mixture. The next
  step must be done quickly so the eggs will cook from the heat of the
  pasta. Drain pasta, well. Toss pasta with bacon sauce and beaten
  eggs. Mix with 1/2 the grated cheese and serve with extra cheese on
  the side for topping. For those looking to keep the fats down a bit,
  Eggbeaters can be substituted for the eggs.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushrooms & Peas for Pasta or Rice
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Pasta, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G Granaroli XBRG76A
     10 oz Fresh mushrooms sliced
           -evenly(try an egg slicer)
      5 oz Frozen baby peas
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 c  White wine
    1/2 pt Heavy cream (room temp)
      1 pt Half and half (room temp)
    1/2 c  Grated parmigiana cheese
        x  Pasta or rice
 
  Melt butter in olive oil. Sautee mushrooms and peas about 5 minute.
  Add wine and simmer 5 minutes. Turn off heat. Add cream and half and
  half and mix well. (never cook cream or half and half on high heat-
  it will separate) Cook pasta or rice according to directions and
  drain well but keep hot. Mix with sauce and toss with 1/2 th cheese.
  Serve hot with extra cheese on the side. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Broccoli
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G Granaroli XBRG76A
           -MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 md Head fresh broccoli
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Olive oli
      4    Cloves garlic minced or 4
           -tb ready chopped garlic
      1 md Onion chopped
    1/2 c  White wine or chicken broth
           Salt & fresh grnd pepper
           -to taste
     12 oz Pasta cooked
           Grated cheese for topping
 
  Wash and cut broccoli into bite size pieces. Cook in salted water
  until crisp. Drain well and set aside. In a pan, melt butter in olive
  oil. Sautee onion until translucent. Add garlic and simmer for 1
  minute. Add broccoli, and wine or broth and simmer 3 minutes. Add
  salt and pepper. In a large bowl mix drained pasta with broccoli
  mixture. Toss well. Serve immediately with grated cheese for topping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Seafood, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      7 oz Italian tuna packed in oil
    1/4    Stick butter
      2 cl Garlic chopped
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
    1/4 c  White wine
        x  Salt and pepper to taste
     28 oz Can chopped peeled tomatoes
 
  Melt butter and tuna oil in pan. Sautee garlic for 2 min, until
  golden. Add tuna and cook 5 min. Add tomatoes, wine and parsly, salt
  and pepper and cook on low heat 30 min. Serve over cooked, drained
  pasta. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato and Leek Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI   (XBRG76A)
      4 tb Butter
      5    Leeks sliced
      6 tb Flour
      4 c  Hot water
      5    Potatoes; peel, dice
    1/2 c  Milk
           Butter and chives; garnish
 
  In a large pot over medium heat saute leeks in butter. Remove from
  heat, let cool a bit. Stir in flour. Mix well. Add water and mix well
  again. Return to heat and add potatoes, salt, and pepper. Bring to a
  boil. Then lower heat, cover and simmer for 30 min. When potatoes are
  tender break up potatoes with a masher, add milk and heat just under
  boiling. Garnish individual serving dishes with butter and chives and
  serve with a large bowl of crusty croutons. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti W/bacon and Egg
 Categories: Pasta, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
    1/2 lb Bacon
      4    Eggs; beaten
    1/2 c  White wine
      3 tb Unsalted butter
        x  Pepper to taste
     12 oz Thin spaghetti
    1/2 c  Grated Italian cheese
 
  Cook bacon until lightly crisp. Drain and reserve 2 tbls drippings.
  Coarsly chop bacon and leave on the side. Melt butter in bacon
  drippings, add wine and pepper and simmer 5 min. Cook spaghetti
  according to directions. Add bacon to butter-wine mixture. The next
  step must be done quickly so the eggs will cook from the heat of the
  pasta. Drain pasta, well. Toss pasta with bacon sauce and beaten
  eggs. Mix with 1/2 the grated cheese and serve with extra cheese on
  the side for topping. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Seafood Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Salsa/sauce, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      1 lb Shrimp, lobster, crab, or
           -combination
    1/4    Stick butter
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 cl Garlic; crushed or
      2 ts Jarred chopped garlic
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      1 c  White table wine
      3 tb Fresh chopped parsley
        x  Salt and pepper to taste
     12 oz Thin spaghetti; cooked
 
  In a saucepan melt butter in olive oil on low heat. Add onion and
  garlic and sautee for 3 min. Add wine, parsley and salt and pepper.
  simmer for 5 min. Add seafood and simmer for 5 min.Pour over cooked
  pasta. Options: To make a red sauce- add 1-4 oz can tomato sauce with
  wine...proceed. To make a real white sauce Add 1 pint heavy cream at
  the end of cooking when the heat is turned off. (heating cream  may
  cause it to separate) (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak Diane
 Categories: Meat, Salsa/sauce, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      4    6 oz fillet steaks
      4 cl Garlic crushed
      1 md Onion chopped
    1/2 lb Mushrooms sliced
      1 ts Dijon mustard
  1 1/2 tb Worchestershire sauce
        x  Salt and pepper
      3 oz Brandy
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
 
  Use 2 skillets. Heat the first skillet very hot and add 1/2 the oil
  and butter. Brown steaks on both sides. Flambe with brandy. In the
  second skillet, add the rest of the butter and oil. Sautee garlic,
  onion and mushrooms and discard. Add worcestershire saucem mustard,
  and cream. Season with salt and pepper. After all is blended well add
  the steaks and allow to soak on very low `til all the meat is
  flavored well.(1 min. on each side) Top with parsley and serve on a
  warm platter. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Sausage Bread
 Categories: Italian, Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Pizza dough
      4    Sausage links
      1 lg Onion chopped
      1 lg Pepper
    1/4 lb Shredded mozzarella
    1/4 c  Grated cheese
           Salt and pepper
           Egg wash (1 egg whipped
           With 1 tb water)
 
  Let dough rise until double in size. (about 4 hrs) Squeeze sausage
  meat from skin and crumble. Sautee with onion and chopped pepper.
  Drain well. Punch down dough and cut in half. Roll into a rectangle.
  Top with half meat and cheeses. Roll up and place in shallow baking
  pan seam side down. Repeat with other dogh. Brush egg wash over both
  loaves. Cut 3 slits 1" in each loaf. Bake at 375 for 25-30 min. Serve
  warm. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab and Cheese Stuffed Bread
 Categories: Bread, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      1    16" French bread; halve
           -lengthwise, hollowe out
     12 oz Cheddar cheese; grated
      8 oz Crab meat; flaked
      6 tb Chopped green onion
    1/4 c  Mayonaise
    1/8 ts Hot sauce
 
  Pre-heat oven to 350. Place bread on ungreased baking sheet. Sprinkle
  cheese over halves of bread. Combine remaining ingredients in a small
  bowl. Spoon mixture over cheese. Bake until cheese bubbles, about 20
  min. Cut each piece in half and serve hot. VARIATION-Crab melt
  sandwich- Use the same crab mixture as last recipe. 2 slices rye
  bread per sandwich 2 slices swiss cheese per sandwich Butter one side
  of each piece of bread. This will be the outside of the sandwich. On
  the unbuttered side place a slice of cheese on each slice of bread.
  Top one slice with crabmeat filling. Close to make a sandwich. On a
  non-stick pan grill the sandwich butter side to pan. Brown slightly
  on each side and cook until cheese is melted. Serve hot. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minestra Del Paradiso
 Categories: Soup/stew, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      6 c  Meat stock; canned or fresh
      4    Eggs
      6 tb Bread crumbs
        x  Salt and pepper
        pn Nutmeg; optional
    1/2 c  Grated parmigiana cheese
 
  Heat the stock in a pot. In a bowl break the eggs, add breadcrumbs
  and 1/4 cup cheese. Mix well. Add to stock as it begins to boil.
  Lower heat and cook about 1 min stirring. Add the remaining cheese on
  the top if you serve in a turrine or add individually if you serve in
  bowls. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Veggie Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      2 c  Leftover veggies; broccoli,
           -cauliflower, spinach, kale
           -or cabbage*
      1    Onion; chopped
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Flour; heaping
      2 c  Hot milk
      2 c  Broth
        x  Salt and pepper
    1/4 c  Grated cheese; Italian,
           -swiss, cheddar, etc.
 
  If you do not have enough veggies, add mashed potatoes, rice or finely
  chopped sauteed celery or onion. In a pot melt the butter in the oil
  and saute the onion until golden. Stir in the flour. Lower the heat
  and add the milk gradually whisking as you add to avoid lumps. Cook,
  stirring until bubbly. Add the broth and mix well. Combine the
  leftovers with 2 cups of the cream sauce and puree in blender, 2 cups
  at a time. Retun to pot and cook over med heat for 3-4 min. Add salt
  and pepper. Heat to just below boiling and stir in cheese until
  melted. Serve hot with crusty croutons. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta W/mussels
 Categories: Pasta, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 cl Chopped garlic
      6 oz Canned or frozen mussels
      1 sm Green pepper; diced
    1/2 c  Red wine
     28 oz Can Italian tomatoes; crush
           -by hand
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
        x  Cheese for topping
 
  Melt butter in olive oil. Sautee garlic and pepper for 2-3 min. Add
  tomatoes and wine and simmer for 30 min. Add mussels and cook on low
  heat for 15 min. Mix in fresh parsley and turn off heat. Let sit for
  10 min. Season w/salt and pepper to taste. Serve over hot pasta. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream of Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      2 lb Asparagus
      1 qt Chicken broth
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Half and half
      4 tb Flour
        x  Salt and pepper
 
  Soak asparagus in warm water for 10 min. to clean. Drain and rinse.
  Cut off tips in 1" pieces and put aside. Cook asparagus in 2 cups
  water until very tender. Puree in blender until smooth. In a large
  pot add puree to chicken broth and cook 10 min. Combine flour with
  milk and shake well to form thickening agent. Gradually add to
  simmering broth and puree whisking constantly to avoid lumps. Cook
  for about 15 min. Soup should thicken somewhat. Add half and half and
  asparagus tips. Continue to cook on low heat 10 more min. Add salt
  and pepper to taste. Serve hot with a dot ob butter on top. If you
  like it thicker, add a bit more flour to the milk. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken or Veal Francese
 Categories: Poultry, Meat, Italian, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
  1 1/2 lb Chicken, veal or fish
      2 lg Eggs; beaten
    3/4 c  Flour
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Water
      2 pk Bouillion
      1    Lemon; squeezed
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley; chopped
 
  Slice cutlets thin and pound to tenderize (except for fish, just slice
  thin). Melt butter in iol and bring to med heat. Dip cutlets in
  flour, then egg and sautee on both sides until golden. Remove from
  pan and place on warm serving platter and keep warm. Add bouillion to
  pan with water and lemon. Raise heat and cook until reduced by half.
  Add lemon juice and cook 2 more min. Stir in parsley and mix well.
  Pour over cooked cutlets and serve immediately with lemon wedges for
  garnish. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gnocchi Verdi
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
  1 1/2 lb Fresh spinach
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter
      1 c  Ricotta
      2 lg Eggs; lightly beaten
      6 tb Flour
      1 c  Grated parmigiano cheese
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/8 ts Fresh ground nutmeg; opt
    1/2 c  Flour for hands
        x  Melted butter
        x  Grated cheese for topping
 
  Wash, cook and drain spinach. Squeeze very dry and finely mince. Saute
  spinach in 1/4 cup butter 3-4 min. Turn down heat and add ricotta.
  Cook stirring constantly 3-4 min. put in bowl and cool 10 min. Stir
  in eggs, salt pepper and 1 cup cheese and nutmeg. Refrigerate at
  least 1 hour or until mixture is very firm. When firm, shape little
  dumplings by hand into 1-1 1/2 " size balls. Cook 1/2 at a time in
  salted boiling water until they puff slightly and rise to the top.
  Scoop out and drain well. Place in a shallow baking dish and drizzle
  with melted butter. Sprinkle with grated cheese and broil until
  lightly browned and bubbly. This may be prepared 5 hours ahead of
  time and broiled just before serving. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Artichoke Hearts
 Categories: Vegetable, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A)
      2 pk Frozen artichoke hearts
        x  Flour for dredging
        x  Eggs for dipping
        x  Flavored bread crumbs
        x  Salt, pepper, garlic,
           -parsley, grated cheese
        x  Oil for frying
 
  Cook the artichoke hearts in water for about 3-4 minutes. Drain. When
  cool enough to handle, dredge in flour. Then dip in egg and in bread
  crumbs pressing the crumbs in gently with the palm of your hand. Fry
  on both sides in hot oil until golden. Drain and serve. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Mushrooms (Bread Crumbs)***
 Categories: Appetizer, Mushroom
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
      1 c  Bread crumbs- for every cup
           -use these measurements
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
      1 tb Chopped garlic or more
           -to taste
    1/4 c  Grated Italian cheese
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Olive oil
 
  Mushrooms- get the largest ones available. Take the stems off gently.
  Soak in warm water with the juice of 1/2 lemon for 10 min. (the warm
  water releases any dirt more easily) Reserve the stems for another
  use.
  
  **Filling- Mix all ingredients except mushrooms in a bowl until it
  makes a sandy consistancy. Place mushrooms on a baking pan (with a
  lip) Fill each one with a slight mound. Bake at 400 for 15 min. You
  can prepare a couple of hours in advance. Bake just before serving.
  This can be made as an appetizer or part of the main dish veggie.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Mushrooms with Sausage***
 Categories: Appetizer, Mushroom
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
 
  Mushrooms- find the biggest ones you can. Gently remove stems and
  soak in warm water with juice of 1/2 lemon. Sausages- 1 per 6 lg
  mushroom caps- remove the meat from the casing. Saute in a pan and
  break up the meat as it browns. When slightly browned add the
  mushroom stems (chopped) Saute until sausage is just about cooked.
  Drain well in a strainer In a large bowl add bread crumbs, sausage
  and mushroom mixture and any other spices you like. Add just enough
  olive oil to make a sandy mixture. Fill mushroom caps and place on
  baking pan. Bake 20 min at 375-400. Serve hot for hors d'oeuvres or a
  veggie at dinner.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Venison Stew***
 Categories: Italian, Salsa/sauce, Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
  2 1/2 lb Venison cubes
      4 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion coarsly chopped
      1    Stalk celery sliced
      1 lg Carrot sliced
      8    To 10 oz fresh mushrooms
           -sliced
      3 tb Fresh chopped parsley
     28 oz Can tomato puree
      1 c  Dry red or white wine
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  In a heavy pot, (dutch oven) saute onion, carrot and celery until
  golden. Add meat and brown on all sides. Add tomato puree and wine
  and bring to a boil. Lower to a simmer. Cook partially covered for
  2-2 1/2 hours. Check and stir often to make sure it doesn09:49 pm
  stick or it might need a bit more liquid. You can add wine, water, or
  broth. When meat is tender, adjust salt and pepper. This is wonderful
  served over Polenta and topped with grated cheese. **Polenta is a
  yellow corn meal cooked like a heavy farina.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Mussels***
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic chopped
      4    To 6 oz canned or frozen
           -mussels
      1 sm Green pepper diced
    1/2 c  Red wine
     28 oz Can Italian tomatoes
           -(crushed by hand)
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
           Cheese for topping (Opt.)
 
  Melt butter in olive oil. Sautee garlic and pepper for 2-3 min. Add
  tomatoes and wine and simmer for 30 min. Add mussels and cook on low
  heat for 15 min. Mix in fresh parsley and turn off heat. Let sit for
  10 min. Season w/ salt and pepper to taste. Serve over hot pasta.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peas and Artichoke Hearts
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
     16 oz Peas; baby, frozen
     10 oz Artichoke hearts; frozen
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      2 ts Garlic; chopped
      4 oz Tomato sauce
           Salt
           Pepper; freshly ground
 
  Melt the butter in the olive oil and sautee the onion and garlic for
  3 min. Add the frozen peas and artichoke hearts and simmer covered
  for about 5 min. Add the tomato sauce and salt and pepper and
  continue to simmer uncovered for 10 more minutes. Stir often enough
  to keep from sticking. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buttery Onion Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------COUNTRY WOMAN 01/93-------------------------
      2 c  Onions; thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Margarine
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 c  Chicken broth
      2 c  Milk
  1 3/4 c  Mozzarella cheese shreded
           -(6-8 oz)
           Salt & pepper; to taste
           Croutons; optional
 
       In a large kettle, saute onions in margarine over low heat until
  tender and transparent, about 20-30 minutes. Blend in flour.
  Gradually add broth and milk; cook and stir over medium heat until
  bubbly. Cook and stir for 1 minute more; reduce heat to low. Add
  mozzarella cheese and stir constantly until melted (do not boil).
  Season to taste with salt and pepper. Serve with croutons if desired.
  Yield: 6 servings (about 1 1/2 qts.)  A recipe of Sharon Berthelote
  of Sunburst, Montana.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Uncooked Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil; extra virgin
      2 tb Garlic; chopped
      2 tb Basil; fresh, chopped
    1/4 c  Parsley; fresh, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper; freshly ground
      1 lb Plum tomatoes;(4-5)
      4 tb Butter
 
  Into a large glass bowl or jar, pour the oil and add the basil,
  garlic and parsley. Core and cut the tomatoes in half and gently
  squeeze out the seeds. Dice the tomatoes. Add them with the salt and
  pepper to the jar or bowl. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and
  refrigerate for 2 days or leave at room temp for several hours to use
  the same day. Cook pasta according to directions and toss with
  butter. Just warm the sauce and toss with hot pasta. ***This is great
  when it10th too hot to cook and those tomatoes are just begging you
  from the garden. Make a big batch and keep it on hand for company.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bisque Lobster or Other***
 Categories: Seafood, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      4 lb Lobster
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/2 c  Finely chopped carrot
    1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Cloves finely chopped garlic
      2 c  Plain tomato sauce-(canned
           -is fine)
      1 c  Dry white wine
      4 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb Tomato paste
           A dash of hot sauce
      2 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Cognac
           Salt & fresh ground pepper
           -to taste
 
  *Plunge the lobsters into boiling water for 3-4 min. Take them out of
  the boiling water and remove the tails. Cut the carcas into quarters,
  discarding the sacks. Crack the claws. Remove the meat from the tails
  and set aside. In a large pot melt the butter in the oil and sautee
  the carrot, onion and celery. When lightly browned, add all other
  ingredients except the cream and salt and pepper. Bring to a boil and
  cook for 45 min. Strain into another pot with a fine cheesecloth. Add
  cream and cook on med low for 10 min. Season with salt and pepper.
  Take the tail meat and shread it by hand, not too big. Add to the
  soup. Cook 5 min.on med low. Serve hot. This recipe can be made with
  lobster, shrimp, clams or any seafood combination. ***for shrimp, or
  clams or seafood..use 2 cups clam juice and 2 cups chicken broth
  instead of 4 cups chicken broth. Always add the seafood the last 5
  min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Bisque
 Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Crab, in shells
      1    Leek, sliced coarsely
      1    Carrot, sliced
      1    Celery stalk, sliced
      2    Shallots, chopped
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 tb Tomato puree
  1 1/2 c  Dry white wine
      2 qt Water
      1    Chicken bouillon cube
      1 pn Saffron
      1    Herb bouquet
      1 tb Safflower or olive oil
      4 tb Cornstarch
      4 tb Non-fat powdered milk
      4    Basil leaves
      1 ts Tarragon, minced
      1 tb Chives
    1/2 ts Cognac or brandy
 
  Remove meat from shells.  In a large saucepan, heat the oil over
  moderate heat, then add the crab shells and cook them.
  
  Stir slowly but continuously for 5 minutes.  Add the vegetables and
  tomato puree and cook another 5 minutes, stirring. Add the wine and
  bring to a boil for 30 seconds, scraping the bottom to dissolve any
  coagulated juices. Add the water, bouillon cube, saffron and herb
  bouquet (1/2 ts thyme, 1/2 bay leaf, 5-6 fresh parsley stems, tied in
  cheesecloth). Return to a simmer and cook, covered, for 1 hour.
  
  Pour the stock through a fine strainer into a bowl, pressing down on
  the vegetables and crab shells with a soup ladle to extract all of
  the liquid. (For a finer result, strain again through cheesecloth.)
  
  Return the stock to a boil.  Moisten the cornstarch in a little cold
  water, then add it to the saucepan and boil for 4 minutes. Taste for
  salt and pepper.  (The recipe can be prepared ahead to this point and
  refrigerated.)
  
  Bring stock to a simmer.  Add the crabmeat and cook for 3 minutes.
  Remove immediately with a slotted spoon and divide among 4 heated
  soup plates.
  
  Pour the stock into a blender, add the powdered milk and cognac. Blend
  until smooth and homogeneous.  Pour immediately into the soup plates
  over the crabmeat.
  
  Garnish each dish with an equal amount of the herbs.
   Cookin` and lovin` it! Mrs. G. 10:35 am on 06/10/93
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: ETHNIC TIME: 06/10 10:50 AM
  
  TO:      ALL FROM: G GRANAROLI (XBRG76A) SUBJECT: ASK MRS. G. ITALIAN
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fontina Polenta
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
           Ingredients:
           Prepared polenta
           Fontina Cheese
           Melted Butter
           Salt & pepper
 
  After making the polenta pour into a dish and let cool until
  hardened. Cut into 1" slices. In an ovenproof buttered pan cover
  bottom with slices of polenta. Cover that with a generous layer of
  Fontina cheese. Top with another layer of polenta. Brush with melted
  butter. Lightly salt and pepper the top. Bake in oven 475 until
  golden brown. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Melt Sandwich
 Categories: Italian, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2    Slices rye bread/sandwich
      2    Slices swiss cheese per
           -sandwich
      8 oz Crab meat, flaked
      6 tb Chopped green onion
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/8 ts Hot pepper sauce
 
  Butter one side of each piece of bread. This will be the outside of
  the sandwich. On the unbuttered side place a slice of cheese on each
  slice of bread.
   Combine remaining ingredients. Top one slice with crabmeat filling.
  Close to make a sandwich. On a non-stick pan grill the sandwich
  butter side to pan. Brown slightly on each side and cook until cheese
  is melted. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Crab Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
      1    Shallot chopped
      1    Stalk celery chopped
      6    To 7 oz crab meat
      1 tb Tomato paste
      4 oz Tomato sauce (canned)
      1 c  Sparkling white wine
      1    Flavor cube (fish flavor
           -if possible)
           Salt and pepper to taste
     12 oz Pasta cooked according to
           -directions
 
  Melt butter in oil and sautee shallot and celery until translucent.
  Add paste and tomato sauce. Mix well. Add flavor cube and wine and
  cook over low heat 5 min. Add crab and cook for 5 more min. Salt and
  pepper to taste. Serve over hot pasta.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lobster Bisque/or Other
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      4 lb Lobster
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/2 c  Finely chopped carrot
    1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Cloves finely chopped garlic
      2 c  Plain tomato sauce-(canned
           -is fine)
      1 c  Dry white wine
      4 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb Tomato paste
           A dash of hot sauce
      2 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Cognac
           Salt & fresh ground pepper
           -to taste
 
  *Plunge the lobsters into boiling water for 3-4 min. Take them out of
  the boiling water and remove the tails. Cut the carcas into quarters,
  discarding the sacks. Crack the claws. Remove the meat from the tails
  and set aside. In a large pot melt the butter in the oil and sautee
  the carrot, onion and celery. When lightly browned, add all other
  ingredients except the cream and salt and pepper. Bring to a boil and
  cook for 45 min. Strain into another pot with a fine cheesecloth. Add
  cream and cook on med low for 10 min. Season with salt and pepper.
  Take the tail meat and shread it by hand, not too big. Add to the
  soup. Cook 5 min.on med low. Serve hot. This recipe can be made with
  lobster, shrimp, clams or any seafood combination. ***for shrimp, or
  clams or seafood..use 2 cups clam juice and 2 cups chicken broth
  instead of 4 cups chicken broth. Always add the seafood the last 5
  min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli and Cauliflower
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
           Equal amounts of broccoli
           -and cauliflower
           Italian flavor bread crumbs
           Garlic
           Butter and olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Grated Italian cheese
 
  Cook the broccoli and cauliflower until almost done. Drain well. In a
  large frying pan melt the butter with the olive oil and sautee the
  garlic. Add the broccoli and cauliflower to pan. Generously cover
  with bread crumbs and cheese. Turn the heat on med-high and turn
  often. Bread crumbs will start to brown and stick a bit. Scrape
  bottom often. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Serve hot. It
  should be somewhat crunchy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breaded Broccoli
 Categories: Italian, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lg Head broccoli cut in spears
      2    Eggs beaten and seasoned
           -w/ salt and pepper
  1 1/2 c  Seasond Italian bread crumbs
           Oil for frying
 
  Cook the broccoli in lightly salted water until al dente. Drain well.
  Dip into egg, then bread crumbs and fry in oil until golden brown.
  Drain. This can be made ahead of time and kept warm, uncovered, in
  the oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plain or Spinach Pasta
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      3    Whole eggs beaten-to-2 cups
           -flour...for white pasta
      2    Whole eggs + 1/2 pk frozen
           -(10 oz) cooked, well
           -drained spinach and 2 1/2
           -cups flour..green pasta
 
  I make my pasta in the food processor with the steel blades. I put my
  flour in first and spin. Then I drizzle the beaten eggs through the
  tube. I let it run until the dough cleans the bowl. For a spinach
  pasta, I put the spinach in with the flour and spin for about a
  minute before adding the eggs.
     Note from MK: I use the same recipe and method, using large eggs
  and unbleached flour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroni Salad
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - G. Granaroli XBRG76A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      1 lb Elbow macaroni (small) cookd
           -according to directions.
      4    Hard boiled eggs, chopped
    1/2    Green pepper chopped
    1/2    Red pepper chopped
      2    Fresh tomatoes chopped
      2 c  HELLMAN`S mayo (regular)
      4 tb Oil
      4 tb Cider vinegar
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Drain the pasta well. Mix in the oil and vinegar and mix well. Add all
  other ingredients and mix well. Refigerate overnite. The next day, if
  it needs more mayo , add it and mix well. Adjust for salt and pepper.
  After it sits overnite, it tends to need more salt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Forgotten Torte with Raspberry Sauce
 Categories: Dessert, Jewish, Fruit, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    3/4 c  Egg whites; 6 at room temper
      2 ts Lemon juice
    3/4 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Almond extract
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Red raspberries;  OR
     12 oz Pkg. frozen red raspberries;
      1 tb Sugar
           Fresh mint leaves(optional)
 
   1.) Preheat oven to 450. Grease the bottom of a 10-inch springform
  pan. Set aside.
  2.) For torte; in a mixer bowl; beat egg whites, lemon juice 3/4 tsp.
  vanilla and almond extract with an electric mixer on med. speed. Beat
  for about 3-4 minutes or till soft peaks form (tips curl).
  3.) Gradually beat in the 1 1/4 c. sugar, 1 tbsp. at a time, beating
  on high speed till stiff peaks form (tips stand straight) and sugar
  is almost dissolved (about 10 min)4.) Using a rubber scraper,
  transfer mixture to prepared pan and smooth top. Scrape around the
  sides and center post (if using tube pan), leaving a small trench
  between the meringue and the pan. 
  5.) Place in preheated oven. Tun off oven., Let torte dry in oven
  with door closed for at least 8 hrs. or overnight. If using a tube
  pan, loosen edges and center with a sharp knife. Lift out tube. (Or
  remove sides of springform pan) Slide knife under meringue. Invert
  onto a serving plate. Cover with plastic wrap and foil; freeze if
  desired.
  6.) About 4-8 hours before serving, in a small mixer bowl, beat
  whipping cream till soft peaks form . Add the 2 tsps. of sugar and 1
  tsp. of vanilla; beat till stiff peaks form. Frost the tops and sides
  of the torte. Cover and chill til serving time. 
  7.) For raspberry sauce, in a food processor bowl or blender
  container, combine the raspberries and 1 tbsp. sugar. Cover; process
  or blend till smooth. Strain sauce, if desired.
  8.) Serve the sliced torte topped with raspberry sauce. Garnish with
  fresh mint leaves, if desired.
  
  Makes 1 torte serves 12. Credits go to Sharon Winstein/Midwest Living
  Magazine
  *You can make both the billowy white torte and its sauce ahead of
  time. That's convenient for serving during seder. Lisa/Cedar Rapids
  FROM: LISA CRAWLEY (TSPN00B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Giffilte Fish
 Categories: Seafood, Jewish, Appetizer
      Yield: 18 servings
 
           -ELAINE RADIS BGMB90B
      5 lb Fish; equal amounts
           -pike, carp, etc
      3    Onions; sliced
           Celery stalk; sliced
      3    Large carrots; sliced
      1    -Water; to cover
      1    -Salt; to taste
      1    White pepper; to taste
      4    Eggs
      2 tb Matzo meal
      1    Salt to taste
      1    White pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Water
           Carrots; sliced for pan
           Onions; sliced for pan
      1 bn Beets; sliced (optional)
 
   Have fish man grind: 5 lbs.fish filets-equal amounts; white fish and
  pike;and a small amount of carp or buffle carp; In a large kettle:
  heads,bones,and trimmings of fish; 3 onions,sliced; 1 celery
  stalk,sliced; 2 large carrots,sliced; water to cover; salt to taste;
  white pepper to taste;  Bring to boil.  While this is simmering
  prepare the fish.
    Combine in Food Processor: 1 onion; 4 eggs; add mixture to: ground
  fish; 2 tbs.matzo meal ; salt to taste; white pepper to taste; 1/4
  cup water; Shape fish mixture into balls.  I used to do this by hand;
  chopping in a large wooden bowl with a hack messer.  Be CARFUL, you
  don't want mush but distinct tiny peices.
    Take another pan; and layer the beets on the bottom; some sliced
  carrots, onions, fish; repeat with everything but the beets. end eith
  some carrots. Pour the broth from the OTHER kettle over the fish.
  Simmer,covered for 2 hours.  When cool,remove fish balls to platter
  and garnish with sliced cooked carrots.  Strain broth and chill.
   Serve with jellied fish broth and fresh ground horseradish.
  
  NOTE: The beets are unusal but my Mom and Bubbe ALWAYS used them.
  They do two things; keep the fish from 'catching' on the bottom and
  give the broth a ruby red color; but not the fish; they remain white.
  
  I have never served it with anything but plain freshly grated
  horseradish.
  
  Now if you want to be lazy...take the jarred fish (a good brand like
  MOTHERS or MANACHEVITZ) and do EXACTLY the same thing...layer as
  above and use the jar's broth instead of the fish stock..cook for
  about 45 minutes. Honestly it is good.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: My Family Enjoys This Sephardic for Charoses
 Categories: Jewish, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 20 servings
 
           BARBARA ALHADEFF   (JKBC19B)
      2 lb PITTED DATES
    1/2 qt WALNUTS OR ALMONDS
  1 7/8 lb BOX OF DARK RAISINS
           WINE TO MOISTEN
      6    APPLES, PEELED
      4    ORANGES (OPTIONAL)
 
  GRIND ALL THE FRUITS TOGETHER ALONG WITH THE NUTS.  ADD ENOUGH WIND
  TO MAKE A MOIST PASTE. REFRIGERATE UNTIL SERVING
  
  I USUALLY DOUBLE THIS RECIPE AS MY FAMILY ENJOYS THIS SPREAD ON
  MATZOH IN THE MORNING OR AS A SNACK DURING THE DAY. HAVE A WONDERFUL
  SEDER AND A GREAT PESACH BARBARA IN CALIFORNIA
  
  Reformatted by Elaine Radis; March '92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Tzimmes
 Categories: Side dish, Jewish, Vegetable, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           COOKIE CRIDEN   (NBVX45B)
      1 lb Carrots, peeled and grated
      1    Large yam, peeled and grated
      1 lb Granny Smith apples, peeled
    1/4 lb Prunes coarsely chopped
    1/4 c  White raisins
    1/4 c  Dried, pitted cherries
    1/2 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Crushed pineapple--don't dra
    1/2 c  Matzo meal
           Pinch nutmeg
           Pinch salt
           Pinch Cardamom (optional)
    1/4 lb Margarine, melted and divide
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 tb Matzo meal
           Reserved melted margarine
 
   1. Mix together all ingredients except the topping ingredients and
  only half of the margarine.
   2. Coat a terrine, souffle dish or individual ramekins with
  margarine.
   3. Pour mixture into prepared dish.
   4. Combine topping ingredients and spread over top.
   5. Bake at 350 deg. for 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
   6. It can be prepared a day ahead, but bake the day you want to eat
  it.
   7. Serves 6 to 8. Enjoy!
                         Cookie-Wallingford, PA Reformatted by Elaine
  Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Pancakes
 Categories: Jewish, Breakfast, Bread, Pancakes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           BARBARA ALHADEFF   (JKBC19B)
      1    EGG               1/3 CUP MI
    1/3 c  MATZAH MEAL
    1/2 ts SUGAR
    1/4 ts SALT
 
  MIX INGREDIENTS TOGETHER.  MELT MARGARINE OR OIL IN PAN AND FRY
  PANCAKES. MAKES 6 - 7 PANCAKES  SERVE WITH HONEY/MARG Reformatted by
  Elaine Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocoltate Layer Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           ROGER GOODSTEIN   (FCDK72B)
      8    SHEETS EGG MATZAH
           CHOCOLATE FROSTING
           WHITE WINE
 
  HELLO FELLOW PASSOVER CHEFS!!! Every year my mother-in-law has a large
  first seder (35 people) and every year we have the same food!!! I have
  offered to bring a new carrot dish, does any one have a simple tasty
  dish to serve with the main course? Below is a wonderful chocolate
  layer cake recipe that is easy and fun for kids to help make: DIP ONE
  SHEET OF MATZAH IN THE WINE AND PLACE ON A PLATTER, SPREAD WITH
  FROSTING, CONTINUE DIPPING AND LAYERING UNTIL YOU ARE SATISFIED WITH
  THE HEIGHT OF YOUR CAKE AND FROST THE OUTSIDE AND DECORATE WITH FRUIT
  OR NUTS OR CHOCOLATE. REFRIGERATE OVER NIGHT SO THE MATZAH HAS TIME
  TO SOFTEN. REGARDING THE FROSTING, YOU CAN MAKE YOUR OWN >> KOSHER
  FOR PASSOVER VERSION OR YOU CAN USE THE STORE BOUGHT KIND IF YOU ARE
  NOT TOO OBSERVANT.  I PERSONALLY AGREE WITH SANDI BROOKS, I FOLLOW
  PASSOVER TRADITION BUT NOT THE STRICT LAW. LOOKING FORWARD TO YOUR
  CARROT RECIPES, Reformatted by Elaine Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Explanation of Kosher
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           ANNE NEIWIRTH   (JKBC80B)
 
  Thanks, everyone for your lovely compliments on my explanation to
  Nancy Johnson. And Nancy, if you're reading this, everyone else has
  done a super job of filling you in on what "kosher" means. However, I
  don't think anyone mentioned the source of "kosher," and that is, of
  couse, the Bible. The word kosher, or Kasher, to use a more correct
  pronounciation, means "fit" or "proper."
  
  In the Bible, we have laws given to the Jews by God about what foods
  we may and may not eat. There has been much speculation down through
  the ages about the reason for these laws: health, cleanliness, etc.
  But the true reason, our Rabbis tell us, is because we were commanded
  by God to follow these laws, and to set us apart as a holy people. In
  fact, Nancy, even though only about 10 percent of all Jews observe
  the dietary laws, it is probably these same laws that have allowed
  the Jews to survive as a people for 4,000 years.
  
  Kosher animals, as the others have mentioned, include cows, lambs,
  goats, sheep, deer. A kosher four-legged animal is one that both
  chews its cud and has a cloven hoof. Therefore, pig is not a kosher
  animal. In the category of fowl, chicken, goose, duck, turkey (there
  are a few others as well) are kosher. There is a list of birds in the
  Bible that we are forbidden to eat. No reason is given, but the thing
  they have in common is that they are birds of prey.
  
  We are permitted to eat fish that have fins and scales, therefore cod,
  flounder, salmon, tuna, mahi mahi, mackerel, trout, etc are kosher.
  Shrimp, lobster, eel, clam, crab, squid etc. are not. We are not
  permitted to eat things that creep or crawl on their bellies, for
  instance, reptiles (alligator or lizard or snake), or insects.
  
  Fruits and vegetables are all kosher, as are eggs of kosher animals.
  It may interest you to know that Adam and Eve were vegetarians, and
  some believe that man was meant to be a vegetarian, in the best of
  all possible worlds. It was only after they were thrown out of the
  garden of Eden that they were permitted to kill animals for their
  food.
  
  Speaking of killing animals, our kosher animals must be ritually
  slaughtered in order to be fit for us to eat. It means slaughtering
  in a way that caused the animal the least pain; produces the quickest
  death, and drains out as much blood as possible. We are not permitted
  to eat the blood; it is the life of the animal. That's why kohser
  butchers (and in the old days, housewives) soak and salt the meat to
  drain out even more blood. Because of the requirements of slaughter,
  observant Jews do not hunt, nor will they eat an animal that has been
  shot, bludgeoned, or that has died a natural death. Kosher
  slaughterhouses employ a Rabbi who oversees the slaughtering process
  and who ascertains that it has been done properly. You might imagine
  that kosher meat costs more, and it does! Looks like I'm out of room
  again...Anne in Balt. MD 3:20 pm
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pesach Pizza
 Categories: Main dish, Jewish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           WILMA FISCHER   (SXRV56B)
           Eggs
 
  I make a great Pesach Pizza. Beat eggs , farfel and a little salt
  like you would do for matzo brei. Spread on the bottom of a pan. I
  get a round aluminum pizza pan. Bake till set, about 25 min. Remove
  from oven, Spoon tomato sauce over the crust and sprinke shredded
  cheese and garlic powder on top. Return to oven till cheese melts. I
  even cut it into triangles like the real thing. Did you by any chance
  used to live in Clifton, NJ when you were a child. There was a Rabbi
  Lerer who used to come to our shul and I think he had a son with your
  name. I have found 3 people over prodigy who are related to people in
  Passaic. It's a small world.
      Wilma/ Passaic, NJ Reformatted by Elaine Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Mousse Torte
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Chocolate, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
      7 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 tb Instant coffee
    1/4 c  Boiling coffee
      8    Eggs; separated
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/8 ts Salt
           Butter for pie pan
           Unflavored bread crumbs for
 
    Adjust rack to center of oven. Preheat oven to 350. Butter a 9"
  ovenproof glass pie pan. Dust it with fine dry bread crumbs, set
  aside. Place chocolate in the top of a small doubleboiler over hot
  water. Dissolve the coffee in the boiling water and pour it over the
  chocolate. Cover and let stand over low heat, stirring occasionally
  with a small wire whisk, until choc olate is almost melted. Remove
  choc from the heat and con tinue to stir until smooth. Set aside to
  cool slightly In the small bowl of an electric mixer beat the yolks
  at high speed for about 5 minutes until they are pale lemon colored
  and thickened. Gradually add the sugar and continue to beat at high
  speed for 5 more minutes until very thick. Add the vanilla and the
  chocolate, beating slowly and scraping the bowl with a rubber spatula
  until well blended. Remove from mixer.
   In the large bowl of an electric mixer beat the whites with the salt
  until stiff, but not dry. Gradually, in 2 or 3 small additions, fold
  half of the whites into the chocolate (do not be too thorough) and
  then fold the chocolate into the remaining whites, folding only until
  no whites show.
   Handling as little as possible, gently remove and set aside about 4
  cups of the mousse. Turn the balance into the pie plate, it will
  barely reach the top. Very gently spread level and place in the oven
  to bake. Cover the reserved mousse and refrigerate.
    Bake the mousse for 25 minutes, turn off the heat and let it sit in
  the oven for 5 more minutes. Remove from the heat and cool on a rack.
  Mousse will rise during baking and fall while cooling. It will settle
  in the center, leaving a high rim. When completely cool, remove
  reserved mousse form refrig erator and place the refrigerated mousse
  in the center of the shell of baked mousse.
    Handle as little as possible or it will loose the air beaten into
  it. I used sugar cocoa and instant coffee to flavor the whipped
  cream, I did not measure, but flavored to taste. The whipped cream is
  optional, but it looks better with it.
  
  This is a recipe from one of the Maida Heatter cookbooks. Sandi in CT
  03/02 11:59 am Re-Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal with Almonds and Prunes
 Categories: Meat, Jewish, Main dish, Fruit, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
      4 lb Boneless veal shoulder
      2    Cloves garlic, cut into sliv
  1 1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 ts Paprika
      1 tb Oregano
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
           Salt to taste
           Juice of 2 lemons
      1 lb Dried prunes
      2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Blanched almonds
 
   Cut slits into the veal and insert the garlic slivers into the slots.
  Place the veal in a utensil with a cover and add 1/4 cup oil, paprika,
  pepper, oregano, salt and lemon juice. COVER AND REFRIGERATE OVERNIGHT
  
   Preheat oven to 400 Transfer veal to a baking dish and add the
  marinade. Cover with foil and place the veal in the oven. Bake 1
  hour, covered. Remove the foil and continue baking, basting
  occasionally, until the veal is tender, about 1 more hour
  
  Meanwhile, place the prunes in a saucepan and add the water,brown
  sugar and 1/4 cup oil. Bring to a boil and simmer,covered 1/2 hour,
  or until the prunes are tender. Keep warm. Before the meat is done,
  heat the remaining 3/4 cup oil in a skillet and add the almonds.
  Cook, stirring until they are golden brown. Drain on absorbent paper.
  
  Slice the meat,put on a platter and keep hot. Drain the prunes,
  arrange on a platter and scatter the almonds over them. Serve the
  meat with the prunes and almonds as an accompaniment.
  
  This is so easy that it is great for Passover and has gotten great
  reviews prunes notwithstanding! Sandi in CT 03/01 01:00 P.M.
  Re-Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Queen of Sheba Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie, Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate
     14 tb (1 3/4sticks) butter
    1/3 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs; separated
  1 1/2 c  Finely ground blanched almon
      6 c  Bundt pan *
      3 oz Semisweet chocolate
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      2 tb Sweet butter

MMMMM---------------------------ICEING--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Confectioners sugar**
      3 tb Water
      1 c  Whipped cream (optional)
 
   *or a 9" round cake pan or springform pan.
   ** (Not considered Kosher for Passover) Adjust a rack to the center
  of the oven. Preheat oven to 350 Butter the inside of the pan and
  sprinkle with matzoh meal for Passover; or flour if it is not for
  Passover. Shake out the excess. If using round pan, cut a circle of
  parchment to fit the bottom, place the parchment inside, butter and
  dust the parchment with flour or matzoh meal. Melt the chocolate in
  the top of a double boiler Cream the butter and sugar until light and
  fluffy. Add the egg yolks, beating well after each addition. Stir in
  the almonds and the melted chocolate, blending well. Beat the egg
  whites until they hold their shape, then stir 2 heaping Tablespoons
  into the chocolate mixture. Carefully fold in the remaining whites.
  Pour batter into pan. Bake at middle level for 45 minutes. Cake
  should be slightly underdone. Allow to cool in the pan, then turn out
  to ice.
  
  ICING Melt the chocolate for the icing in the top of a double boiler
  Cut the butter into small pieces and sift the sugar Add the butter to
  the chocolate, a little at a time, then stirring the sugar. Remove
  from the heat and add the water, beating with a whisk until smooth.
  If icing seems too thick, add a little extra water. Pour immediately
  over the cake. Allow to set for 2 hours. Serves 8-10.
  
  This is a version of a recipe I have used almost every year for
  Passover. The next version is the one I use and love. It is like a
  giant brownie. Sandi in CT 03/12 09:11 am Re-Formatted by Elaine
  Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Almond Torte
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
      7    Large eggs,
           Separated keep at room tempe
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Grated orange rind
      4    Very ripe bananas,
           Mashed (about 1 1/3 cups)
      1 c  Matzah cake  meal
      1 c  Coarsely ground almonds
      1 ts Salt
 
  In a large bowl, with an electric mixer beat the yolks and they are
  thick and pale. Gradually add the sugar, beating until the mixture is
  very thick. Beat in the lemon juice and the rind, add the bananas,
  the matzah cake meal, the almonds and the salt and beat the mixture
  until it is combined well. In a clean dry bowl, with clean dry beater
  beat the whites until they just hold stiff peaks, stir 1 cup of them
  into the banana mixture and fold in the remaining whites gently but
  thoroughly, Pour the batter into an ungreased 9" tube pan (3 1/2"
  deep) with a removable bottom and bake the torte in the middle of a
  preheated 350 oven for 55-60 minutes, or until a tester comes out
  clean.
  
  Invert the pan over the neck of a bottle and let the torte cool upside
  down. Run a thin knife around the edge and tube of the pan and remove
  the side of the pan. Run the knife under the bottom of the torte to
  release it and transfer the torte carefully with 2 spatulas to a
  serving plate.
  
  I hope you enjoy this as much as I have.
   Sandi in CT   03/19 09:21 pm Re-Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Chocolate Roll
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B

MMMMM-----------------------------C----------------------------------
      6    Egg whites-
           Keep at room temperature
           For at least 1 hour
      6    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      2 ts Vanilla ***
           Dash salt

MMMMM-----------------------------F----------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream, chilled
    1/2 c  Confectioner's sugar*****
    1/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      2 ts Instant coffee
      1 ts Vanilla***
 
  Grease the bottom of a 15 1/2x10 1/2x1" jelly-roll pan; line with
  waxed paper, grease lightly.   Preheat oven to 375 In a large bowl of
  an electric mixer beat egg whites at high speed until soft peaks form
  when beaters are slowly raised. Add 1/4 cup sugar, 2 T at a time,
  beating until stiff peaks form when beater is slowly raised. With
  same beaters beat yolks at high speed, adding the remaining 1/2 cup
  of sugar 2 T at a time, until mixture is very thick-about 4 minutes.
  At low speed beat in cocoa, vanilla and salt just until >> smooth.
  With wire whisk or rubber scraper using and under and over motion,
  gently fold the cocoa mixture into the beaten egg whites, just until
  they are blended(no egg white should show). Spread evenly in the pan,
  
  Bake 15 minutes, just until the surface springs back when gently
  pressed with fingertip. Sift confectioner's sugar in a 15x10"
  rectangle, on a clean linen towel. Turn cake out onto sugar, lift off
  pan, peel paper off of cake. Roll up cake jelly-roll fashion, towel
  and all, starting at the short end.
  
  Cool completely on rack, seam side down- at least 30 minutes. To make
  the filling: Combine filling ingredients in medium bowl. Beat using
  an electric mixer until thick and then refrigerate. Unroll cake,
  spread with fillin to 1" from the edge, reroll/ Refrigerate 1 hour
  before serving. To serve sprinkle with confectioner's sugar. You may
  make this cake a week ahead, then freeze it wrapped in foil. Let
  stand at room temperature for 1 hour before serving.
  
  *** Pure vanilla has alcohol and therefore is not Kosher for Passover.
  Either leave it out or find vanilla without the alcohol. *****
  Confectioner's sugar has cornstarch and so is not Kosher for Passover,
  someone posted a recipe for making confectioner's sugar by using
  potato starch instead of cornstarch. I did not get the exact
  directions, but I think if you backdate you will find it in one of
  the dessert recipes.
  
  Sandi in CT   03/20 10:40 pm Re-Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Souffle
 Categories: Jewish, Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
      2 pk Frozen broccoli; (10 oz each
      3    Eggs
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 tb Onion soup mix
    1/2 c  Mayonaise
           Grease for the pan
      2 tb Matzah meal, divided
 
  Cook the broccoli according to package directions. Drain thoroughly.
  Set aside. In a mixing bowl, beat the eggs very well with the salt,
  pepper and onion soup mix; ass the mayonaise and contiinue beating
  until well blended. Stir in the cooked broccoli. Grease a 7 x11 1/2"
  baking pan. Dust lightly with 1 Tbls of the matzah meal. Pour
  broccoli in the pan and sprinkle the top with remaining matzah meal.
  Bake at 350 for 40-50 minutes, or until the top is golden. Serves 4-6.
  
  Reformatted by Elaine Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli-Walnut Ring
 Categories: Jewish, Side dish, Vegetable, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           SANDI BROOKS   (WFCJ53B)
      1 pk Frozen chopped broccoli; (10
      1    Clove garlic (optional)
      2 tb Minced onion
    1/4 c  Margarine
  1 1/2 tb Potato starch
      1 c  Water; or
           Boullion, made from a cube
      3    Eggs,separated
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Grease a 1 1/2 quart ring mold with softened margarine. Refrigerate
  while preparing the filling. Cook the broccoli accordiing to package
  directions, but add the garlic to the water. Drain well and discard
  the garlic. In a 1 quart saucepan over medium heat, saute the onion
  in the margarine until soft and golden. In a measuring cup, dissolve
  the potato starch in the water or bouillion, add to the onions. Cook
  over low heat, stirring until thick and smooth. Cool slightly.
  
  In a mixing bowl, beat the egg yolks until light. Stir the yolks,
  broccoli and walnuts into the onion mixture. In a separate bowl, with
  clean beaters, beat the whites until stiff. Fold them into the
  broccoli mixture.
  
  Spoon the mixture into the prepared ring mold. Set the mold into a hot
  water bath that reaches halfway up the sides of the mold. Bake in
  preheated 350 oven for 30-35 minutes, until firm. >> Let rest for 5
  minutes before unmolding. Serves 4.
  
  These recipes are from the Complete Passover Cookbook, by Frances
  AvRutick. It is a great source for all kinds of recipes, informations
  and conversions.
   Sandi in Vernon,CT 04/16 07:11 am Reformatted by Elaine Radis
  Reformatted by Elaine Radis
         04/16/92        7:43 PM        FOOD AND WINE CLUB TOPIC:
  HOLIDAY TIME:    04/16 10:05 AM TO: NORMAN GOLDMAN (KPDS97A) SUBJECT:
  MATZAH FRAFEL PUDDIN Bernice:
                                                     he recipe you h
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Farfel Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Side dish, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           SANDI BROOKS   (WFCJ53B)
      2 c  Matzah farfel
           Cold water
      2 tb Margarine or oil
      2    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1    Apple, pared, sliced/diced
      1    Banana sliced
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
           Grease for the pan
 
  the COmplete Passover Cookbook, by Frances AvRutick.
   In a small bowl, cover the farfel with cold water, drain
  immediately. The farfel should be moist but not soggy. In a large
  mixiing bowl, beat the eggs with the oil or margarine.Add the farfel.
  Stir well. Add the apple or banana and the nuts. Gently mix. Pour the
  into greased 8" square pan. Bake in a 350 oven until brown, 30-40
  minutes. Serves 6-8.
  
  This is the only recipe I have for this as it is not something I
  make. I do think that there were other farfel kugel recipes earlier.
  I would backdate and see if there are any still alive. Or post a note
  to Elaine Radis who has collected the Pesach recipes on her meal
  master. Sandi in Vernon,CT 04/15 11:14 pm Reformatted by Elaine Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ingberlach
 Categories: Jewish, Candy, Dessert
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           SANDI BROOKS   (WFCJ53B)
      1 lb Honey
    1/2 lb Coarse matzah meal or matzah
    1/2 ts Ginger
           Sugar or  matzah meal
 
    Here is the recipe I think that you are looking for. It is called
  INGBERLACH and this recipe is from Passoverama, a cookbook for
  Passover. The cookbook is from Temple Beth Hillel-Beth El in
  Wynnewood, Pa.
  
  Boil ingredients together in a large saucepan until the mixture is
  thick and forms a ball. (Mixture should retain shape when dropped in
  a glass of cold water) Roll small amounts on board covered with sugar
  or matzah meal. Roll into heavy cigar shapes (3" long) or flatten
  with palm of the hand to 1/2" thicknesses and cut into diamond or
  square shapes. I hope that this helps and is what you have been
  loooking for.
  
   Sandi in Vernon,CT 04/16 06:41 pm Reformatted by Elaine Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pesach Popovers
 Categories: Jewish, Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -RHONA ALTOMARI (KXPV54B)
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Oil
  1 1/2 c  -water
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Matzoh meal
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      4    Eggs
 
  Blend until mixture forms ball. Cool (not long). Add one at a time;
  beating well-4 eggs
  
  Grease muffin tins. Moisten hands, shape. Sprinkle with cinnamon &
  sugar. Bake 375 for 45 minutes. Makes 12 Formatted by Elaine Radis;
  3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Hermit Cookies
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -RHONA ALTOMARI (KXPV54B)
     12 oz Pkg Honey Cake mix
      1 tb Instant coffee
      1 lg Egg
      2 tb Peanut oil*
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
      1 c  Raisins
 
  * (any KP oil) water (or orange juice) Stir coffee into cake mix.
  Break egg into measuring cup. Add oil and liquid to measure 1/2 Cup
  Mix as directed on pkg. Fold in raisins and nuts. Chill in refridge
  at least 1 hour. Drop by tsp onto greased cookie sheet. Bake 15
  minutes @ 300. 3 dozen Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate. Chip Meringues
 Categories: Dessert, Jewish, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -RHONA ALTOMARI (KXPV54B)
      2    Egg whites
    2/3 c  Sugar
      6 oz Chocolate chips
 
  Preheat oven to 350
  
   In small mixing bowl; beat eggs. Add sugar after eggs are "more than
  foamy"-they should be light and fluffy.
   Beat for 8 minutes. Fold in chips. Drop by tbsp onto greased cookie
  sheet. TURN OVEN OFF, leave overnight.
  
  The kids love them! Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Fluff
 Categories: Jewish, Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -SHERI KONOPKO (GXCH63B)
      1 c  Cake meal
      3 lb Carrots; -cooked and mashed
      3    Eggs; separated
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Stick margarine; melted
 
  Preheat oven-375 Combine cake meal and salt.
   In large bowl combine carrots; sugar, margarine, and yolks Mix well
  Make a well in center and add dry ingredients Stir until well blended
  Beat egg white until still, but not dry fold into carrots Lightly
  spoon into greased baking dish
  
   Bake for 45 min.
   Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Liver
 Categories: Jewish, Side dish, Vegetable, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -SHERI KONOPKO (GXCH63B)
      6    Onions
      4    Hard boiled eggs
    1/4 c  Walnuts
           Oil
 
  Chop onions and saute in oil until brown Put all ingredient through a
  food processor; or blender.
   Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Macaroon Cupcakes
 Categories: Dessert, Jewish, Nuts/grains, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -SHERI KONOPKO (GXCH63B)
      1 oz Bitter chocolate
    3/4 c  Condensed milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 c  Shredded coconut
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt chocolate; condensed milk and salt. Cook 10 min. Add shredded
  coconut, and vanilla. Place in greased cupcake tin Bake at 350 for 30
  min.
   Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Nut Kugel
 Categories: Dessert, Jewish, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -SHERI KONOPKO (GXCH63B)
      3 c  Matzo farfel
      4    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
      6 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter; melted
      2 md Bananas; unripe; sliced
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
   Pour cold water over farfel; and drain immediately, so that farfel is
  moist, not soggy.
   Beat eggs with salt, sugar, and melted butter. Mix in farfel.
  
  In greased 1 1/2 qt. baking dish, place 1/2 of farfel mixture.
   Arrange bananas on top, and sprinkle with nuts. Top with the rest of
  the farfel mixture
  
  Bake at 350 for 45 min. or until set, and lightly browned. I haven't
  tried this one, but it looked interesting.
   Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Latkes
 Categories: Side dish, Appetizer, Vegetable, Jewish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -NATHAM KOPEL   (WDVB56A)
      6 md Potatoes; grated
      1    Onion; grated
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Flour; to 1/2 Cup
 
  Here are some recipes from "simple Jewish Cookery" by Edna Beilenson
  which are typical for Chanukah. Squeeze liquid from potatoes and add
  remaining ingredients, mix thoroughly. Fry pancakes, from spoon into
  hot shortening, until brown on underside. Turn and brown other side.
  Use moderate heat.
  
  Reformatted by Elaine Radis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kosher for Passover Cheesecake
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Nuts/grains, Chocolate
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -WENDY WILLIAMS (DNBP24B)
           -(This uses a 10" springform

MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1    Stick lightly salted butter
      2    Chocolate macaroons
           -finely ground kosher
           -for Pesach

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
           Crumbs
    1/4 c  Sugar.
      2 lb Cream cheese; (rm temp)
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Fresh lemon juice
        pn Salt
      4 lg Eggs; (rm temp.)
    1/2 c  Brazil nuts; chopped

MMMMM----------------------SOUR CREAM GLAZE---------------------------
      2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
           -little grated lemon zest -
      2 tb Brazil nuts; chopped
 
  Crust:
  Melt butter and combine with crumbs and sugar in food processor or
  with a fork until blended. Press small amounts of mix all the way up
  sides of an ungreased springform and then press the remaining crumbs
  over bottom of springform.
  
  Filling:
  In mixer; whip cream cheese on highspeed for 5 minutes. Add sugar and
  beat for 2 min. more. Add lemon juice and salt and blend together
  thoroughly. Add the eggs, one at a time, keeping the mixer on the
  lowest speed (just until each egg has been incorporated into batter.
  Fold in Brazil nuts with a spatula.
  
  IF USING FOOD PROCESSOR:
  Put sugar in first. Cut each 8 oz. block of cream cheese into eight 1"
  cubes and add the first 8 cubes to bowl. Process using on-off pulse
  about 25 times and then add rest of cream cheese gradually, until
  mixture is smooth and creamy. When it looks perfect, blend non-stop
  for 20 seconds more and then blend in lemon juice and salt for 10
  seconds. Crack eggs in a bowl, break them up slightly with a fork,
  and then add them to batter in processor bowl, and fold them lightly
  into batter with rubber spatula preventing them from sinking to
  bottom. Cut the eggs in batter by using on-off pulse 10 times. Scrape
  down sides with spatula and pulse on-off 5 times more. Fold in nuts
  with a rubber spatula.
  Pour batter into crust and bake at 350 for 55 minutes. Let cool for 10
  minutes before you glaze.
  
  Topping:
  Combine evenly and smoothly over top of baked filling, sprinkle nuts
  around border, grate lemon zest into the center as decoration, and
  return to 350 degree oven for 10 minutes. Remove from oven and
  immediately place in refrigerator to cool to prevent cracks from
  forming in cake.
  
  HINT: Most cheesecakes can be kosher for Passover if you replace
  whatever crumbs are call for in crust with nuts or kosher cookie
  crumbs. Hope you enjoy! Wendy
  Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Farfel Muffins
 Categories: Jewish, Breakfast, Bread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -HENRY EDELBERG (HPCM50A)
  1 1/2 c  Farfel
      4    Eggs
           -Salt & Pepper to taste
      1 tb Schmaltz; more or less
 
  Put farfel in colander with bowl underneath and pour boiling water
  over - let stand till soggy about 5 minutes. Drain well and add eggs
  and seasonings and schmaltz. Put dab of schmaltz in bottom of muffin
  tin ~ heat pan in oven then take out and fill with mixture. Bake at
  400 for 30 mins. I usually double recipe.
  
  They come out all big and puffy and as they cool they flop. Also be
  careful; the bottom of the oven gets covered with schmaltz. I usually
  make these till the oven starts to smoke - but never have enough.
  They're yummy.
  
  Roz Edelberg Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Bagels
 Categories: Jewish, Bread, Breakfast, Side dish, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -HENRY EDELBERG (HPCM50A)
    2/3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Peanut oil
      1 c  Matzo meal
      1 tb Sugar
      3    Eggs
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Bring to boil; oil, water, sugar and salt. Stir in matzo meal, boil a
  second more and remove from heat. Mix thoroughly and when cooled a
  little, beat in eggs one at a time. Grease hands and roll dough into
  2" balls. Place on greased cookie sheet, dip finger in water and
  press hole in center of each. Bake at 375 for 1 hour.
   Roz Edelberg Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
      4    Eggs; separated
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Tightly packed grated carrot
    1/4 c  Shredded;peeled apple
    1/4 c  Sweet red wine
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
    1/3 c  Potato starch
           -Grease for the casserole
 
  In a large mixing bowl; beat the egg yolks with the sugar until
  light.
  Add the grated carrots, shredded apple, wine, lemon juice and rind,
  and the potato starch. Blend well.
  In another bowl beat the egg whites until stiff; fold them into the
  yolk mixture. Turn into a well greased 1 1/2 quart casserole.
  Bake for 35 minutes in a preheated 375 oven or until nicely puffed and
  set.
  Serve hot or cold.
  Serves 6
  
  I have not tried this, but it sounded like a good side dish, that is
  not too heavy.
  Sandi in CT. 03/28 06:11 P.M.
  Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Ladyfingers
 Categories: Dessert, Jewish
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           -SANDI BROOKS WFCJ53B
      6    Egg yolks
    1/4 c  Sugar
      4    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Sifted cake meal
    1/4 c  Sifted potato starch
           Superfine sugar
 
  In a large mixing bowl, beat the egg yolks with the 1/4 cup of sugar
  until light and creamy.
  
  In a separate bowl, beat the egg whites until foamy, then gradually
  add the 1/2 cup sugar beating well after each addition until stiff.
  Fold the egg whites into the yolk mixture.
  
  On a piece of waxed paper sift the cake meal and the potato starch.
  Sprinkle the sifted cake meal and potato starch over the batter and
  fold in gently.
  Line a large cookie sheet with brown paper. Using a pastry bag fitted
  with a round tube, pipe the batter onto the paper to form finger
  shapes about 1" wide and 4" long. Dust with superfine sugar shaken
  through a small sieve.
  
  Bake for 10-12 minutes in a preheated 375 oven. Using a wide spatula,
  loosen from the paper immediately.
  Makes about 24.
  
  I would use these to make several desserts that require either regular
  ladyfingers or I would line a springform pan with these and fill it
  with your favorite mousse recipe. Or you could use them to serve with
  a fruit compote.
  
  The recipe is from the Complete Passover cookbook, by Frances
  AvRutick.
  Sandi in CT 03/28 02:59 pm
  Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Sherbet
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Jewish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -JOYCE MYERS (FTTT35B)
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Oil
      1    Banana
      1 pk Frozen strawberries
 
  Blend well at high speed for 2 to 3 mins. Transfer to a mold and
  freeze.
   Joyce Myers; fttt35b Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Celeriac and Carrots
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish, Jewish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -SHERI KONOPKO  (GXCH63B)
    3/4 c  -water
      1 tb Olive; or vegetable oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      3    Carrots; thinly sliced
      1 lg Celeriac; peeled
           -cut into julianne slices
 
  In medium saucepan; combine water, oil, lemon juice, sugar, and salt.
  Bring to a boil. Add carrots, and simmer for 3 min. Gently stir in
  celeriac. Make sure all veggies are coated.
  Cover, and simmer for 10-12 min.
  
  If a thicker sauce is desired, mix water and potato starch into a
  paste, and stir into pot. Continue heating until sauce is thick. -4-6
  servings-
  
  from The Jewish Holiday Cookbook G. Greene.
  Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Strawberry-Kiwi Sponge-Cake Roll
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -ANNE NEIWIRTH

MMMMM------------------------SPONGE CAKE-----------------------------
      4    Eggs; separated
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Potato starch
    1/2 c  Matzo cake meal
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Confectioners sugar

MMMMM-----------------------FRUIT FILLING----------------------------
      2 c  Non-dairy topping
           -must be Kosher 4 Passover
      1 pt Fresh strawberries;
           -stems removed and sliced in
           -reserve 3/ 4 whole berries
      2    Whole kiwis; peeled/sliced
           -reserve 1 sliced kiwi
           -for garnish
           Fresh mint leaves
           -for garnish
 
  To make sponge cake roll: preheat oven to 350.F. Grease a 10x15"
  jelly roll pan. Cover with greased wax paper. In a large bowl; beat
  the egg whites with an elec. mixer at high speed until soft peaks
  form. Gradually add 1/3 c. of granulated sugar, beating until stiff
  peaks form. In a small bowl, beat egg yolks with an electric mixer at
  high speed until thick and lemon-colored (about 5 minutes.) Gradually
  add the remaining 1/3 cup of sugar, beating constantly. Stir in lemon
  juice. Gently fold the egg-yolk mixture into the egg-white mixture.
  Sift together potato starch, matzo cake meal and salt. Gently fold
  the dry ingredients, half at a time, into the egg mixture until just
  blended. Spread batter evenly in jelly-roll pan and bake 15 minutes
  or until cake tests done (wooden toothpick inserted in center will
  come out clean.) Remove from oven and let cool for 5 minutes. Turn
  out of pan onto a clean,cotton kitchen towel that has been sprinkled
  generously with 1/3 c. Confectioners sugar. Roll up the cake and
  twirl together from the long end. Let cool completely. Refrigerate
  (rolled up) while you prepare filling.
  
  To make fruit filling: Place 1 c. non-dairy topping in a bowl
  (reserve 1 c. for icing) and fold in sliced strawberries and kiwi.
  
  To assemble: Unroll sponge cake and spread fruit-cream filling evenly
  over cake. Roll cake very carefully and place on ungreased cookie
  sheet, seam side down. Cover with clear wrap and refrigerate. Just
  before serving, ice to and sides of filled cake with reserved
  topping. Garnish with sliced kiwi, whole strawberries and mint leaves.
   Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato-Carrot Tsimmes
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish, Jewish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -MICHELE BERNSTEIN (GGXT13A)
     12 c  -salted water
      6 md Sweet potatoes
           -peeled/diced; about 3 lbs
      1 lb Carrots
    1/2 c  Pitted prunes; halved
      1 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Butter or margarine
     20 oz Can pineapple chunks
      1 c  Mandarin orange pieces;
           -drained.
 
  1. In a large pot bring water to a boil. Add potatoes and carrots and
  simmer; uncovererd about 15 min. or until tender. Drain and mash.
  Place in greased 6 qt. casserole with the prunes.
  
  2. Preheat oven to 350 deg. Combine orange juice, brown sugar and
  cinnamon Pour over the sweet potatoes. Bake, covered for 30 min.
  Uncover and taste. If the tzimmes tastes sweet enough, dot with
  margarine or butter and bake, uncovered 15 min. more. Otherwise add
  pineapple and oranges, then dot with butter or margarine and bake an
  additional 15 min.
  
  Yield: 8 to 10 servings ENJOY!
  Good hot or cold 
  Formatted by Elaine Radis; 3/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Almond Torte with Strawberry Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Fruit, Chocolate, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           -SHERI KONOPKO
  1 1/4 c  Sugar; (Domino)
      1 c  Margarine; softened
      4    Eggs; separated
  2 1/4 c  Almonds; sliced; blanched
      7 oz Unsweetened chocolate
           -preheat oven 300

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 c  Strawberries; frozen;
           -unsweetened
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Line the bottom of 9 inch springform pan with wax paper; grease paper.
  
  With blender; mix sugar and margarine, until fluffy. Add egg yolks.
  In a food processor, process almonds and chocolate until finely
  ground. Stir into sugar mixture.
  
  In separate bowl beat egg whites to stiff peaks. Mix 1/3 whites into
  batter. Gently fold in remaining whites. Spread batter into pan,
  smoothing top. Bake about 1 1/2 hours,until top springs back. Cool
  for 10 min. before releasing.
  
  Sauce:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Mirlitons
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  9 1/2 oz Tuna fish, drained
      3    Mirlitons
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1 tb Margarine, pareve
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
    1/4 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      1    Shallot, chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1    Bay leaf,minced
    3/4 c  Bread crumbs
           Salt & Pepper to taste
           Paprika (opt)
 
  Boil mirlitons in water until tender.  Remove and cool, then cut in
  half. Scoop out (careful not to damage shells!!) and mash pulp.
  
  Brown onions and garlic in margarine.  Add parsley, celery, shallots,
  green pepper, thyme, and bay leaf.  Add bread crumbs, salt, pepper,
  and pulp. Mix well.  Fry about 5 to 10 minutes, stirring often.  Add
  tuna, mix well, and fry additional 5 min.
  
  Fill mirliton shells with stuffing.  Place additional bread crumbs on
  top and sprinkle with paprika.  Dot each shell with margarine.  Bake
  for abt. 15 min. in 350 F. oven until golden brown on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Okra Gumbo with Sausage
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Soup/stew
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3    4 lb. chickens, cut up
    1/2 c  Veg. oil
      2 lb Sliced okra
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ga Water
      1    3 oz. Kosher smoked sausage
      1 lb Chicken gizzards, cut up
      2    Med onion, chopped
    1/4    Bell pepper, chopped
      1    Whole bulb garlic, chopped
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 tb Sugar
      1    6 oz. cn. tomato paste
      3    Large tomatoes OR >>>>
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (16 oz.)
      2    Bay leaves
      1 pn Thyme
      1 tb Gumbo file'
           Salt & Pepper to taste
 
  Brown chicken pieces in some of the oil; remove from pot.  Brown okra
  and remove from pot. Add rmainder of oil and flour, stirring
  constantly untill roux is a rich brown.
  
  Add okra and water to roux, blending well.  Add chicken, sausage,
  gizzards, and remaining ingredients except file'.  Salt and pepper to
  taste. Cook for 1 1/2 to 2 hrs.
  
  Stir in file' during the last 1/2 hr. of cooking.  Serve with hot
  cooked rice in soup bowls.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus Vinagrette Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salad, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ds Garlic juice
      1 c  Olive or salad oil
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      2 cn 15 oz. whole asparagus,drain
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/3 c  Tarragon vinegar
    1/4 c  Chopped shallots or onions
      2 tb Chopped pimento
      1 tb Capers
 
  Combine sugar, salt, cayenne pepper, paprika, and garlic juice in a
  bowl. Add vinegar and oil slowly, beating constantly.  Add onions or
  shallots, parsley, pimento, and capers.  Mix well.  Pour over
  asparagus and refrigerate overnite.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yom Tov Poulet
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    5-6 lb. pullet
      1 c  Concentrated tomato soup>>
           Undiluted.
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Canned sliced mushrooms>>>>
           Liquid from mushrooms.
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 tb Margarine,rounded--pareve
      1 tb Flour
      1 tb Chopped onion
      1 tb Chopped green pepper
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Salt & peper to taste
           Liquid vegetable shortening
 
  Cut chicken in to 8 pcs.  Season with salt and peper and dredge with
  flour. Pour enough shortening into lge. skillet to cover bottom and
  heat to 375 F. Slowly brown chicken on both sides, keeping skillet
  covered. Remove and set aside. In separate lge. saucepan, melt
  margarine; add onion and flour; brown lightly. Stir in tomato soup
  and water; mix well. Add parsley, green pepper, and celery.  Bring to
  a rolling boil;  add chicken.  Lower flame and cook slowly about 1
  1/2 to 2 hrs. until chicken is tender.  Cook mushrooms in liquid for
  15 min; add to chicken.  Raise heat and bring mixture to boil once.
  Remove and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Napoleon
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Zucchini
    1/4 c  Chopped onions
      3 tb Margarine, pareve
      4    Med.tomatoes,peel,quarter
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 ds Pepper
      1 tb Flour--subs. potato starch>>
           For Passover.
 
  Cut zucchini into 1/2" slices.  Saute onions in margarine until
  tender. Add tomatoes and cook 5 min.  Then add zucchini, salt,
  oregano, and pepper. Cook covered over low heat until zucchini is
  tender (abt. 12 to 15 min.) If a thicker sauce is desired, sprinkle
  in flour and cook a few minutes longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brandied Louisiana Yams
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 tb Margarine, pareve
    1/2 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 ts Orange peel, grated
    1/2 c  Brandy
      8    Med.yams,cooked,peel,slice>>
           OR
      2    1 lb.canned yams, drained>>
           Sliced.
 
  Melt margarine in large skillet.  Add sugar and stir over low heat
  until melted.  Add yams, orange peel, and brandy and cook over low
  heat 15 min. basting yams frequently.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Louisiana Bread Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Slices stale bread/challah
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Seedles raisins
      1 pt Nondairy creamer
      1 pt Water
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Lemon extract/flavoring
      1 c  Slightly salted water
 
  Dip slices of stale bread in salted water until soft.  Drain and
  place in a bowl, ading well-beaten eggs, sugar and raisins.
  
  Scald nondairy creamer combined with water; add cinnamon and lemon
  extract and blend.  Pour over bread and fill greased pudding dish
  with mixture.
  
  Set in pan of hot water and bake in 350 F. oven for abt. 45 min.
  Serve with Honey Sauce.  See MM#: 8
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Sauce for Bread Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Salsa/sauce, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Margarine, pareve
      3    Egg yolks
      1 tb Honey
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Boiling water
 
  Cream margarine and sugar.  Add slightly beaten egg yolks and water
  and cook over very low flame until mixture thickens.  Remove from
  flame and add honey.  Serve over bread pudding.
  
  Yield: 1/2 cup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout Appetit with Remoulade Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizer, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Smoked trout

MMMMM----------------------REMOULADE SAUCE---------------------------
      4 tb Horseradish mustard
    1/2 c  Tarragon vinegar
      2 tb Catsup
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Salt
      1    Clove garlic
      1 c  Salad oil
    1/2 c  Shallots
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
 
  Remove skin and bones from fish.  Flake and place in cocktail glasses
  or iced supreme bowls lined with lettuce.
  
  Place all ingreds.  for Remoulade Sauce in blender and blend
  thoroughly.
  
  Chill well before serving.
  
  Smoked trout may be purchased at kosher deli.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mirliton Soup
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Med. size mirlitons
      6    Slices kosher Beef Frye
      3    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1    Large bell pepper, chopped
      2    Large onions, chopped
      5    Shallots, chopped
      2 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1    Bay leaf
      5    Chicken bouillon cubes
      4 c  Boiling water
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 c  Nondairy creamer
           Bread crumbs
 
  Dissolve 5 bouillon cubes in 4 c. boiling water. Boil mirlitons until
  tender; let cool.  Peel and cut into cubes.  Set aside. In large pot
  fry Beef Frye until brown.  Add all seasonings and saute until soft.
  Add cubed mirlitons and chicken bouillon.  Bring to a boil and cook
  for abt. 45 min. Add nondairy creamer and simmer for 5 min. Then put
  soup in blender and blend until creamy.  Serve hot with about 1 tbs.
  bread crumbs on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rosbif Juteaux
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    6 lb. brisket, trimmed
      1 pk Kosher onion soup mix 3/4oz.
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
           Garlic salt too taste
 
  Place brisket fat side up in lge. baking or roasting pan.  Bake for
  10 min. at 400 F.; then reduce heat to 350 F.  Sprinkle meat with
  soup mix, garlic and seasonings and bake 15 min.  Add water, cover
  pan, and reduce temp. to 325 F. Bake 2 to 2 1/2 hrs. or until meat
  can be pierced easily with a fork.  Thicken drippings with a little
  flour and serve with brisket.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: String Beans Almondine
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh string beans OR
      1 cn French-style string beans
    1/4 c  Liquid from beans
    1/2    Stick margarine, pareve
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds
    1/4 ts Oregano
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Wash fresh beans and remove ends and strings.  Cover with boiling
  water to which 1/2 tsp. salt has been added.  Cook uncovered for 20
  to 30 min, or until tender. Drain and reserve 1/4 cup liquid.  Slice
  beans lengthwise into long, thin strips.
  
  Melt magrarine in saucepan.   Add almonds and saute until edges are
  light brown.  Remove with slotted spoon.  Add 1/4 cup liquid from
  beans and stir. Add string beans and heat throughly, stirring
  occasionally.  Add oregano and almonds; salt nd pepper to taste and
  mix lightly with fork until heated through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kosher Cajun Dirty Rice
 Categories: Jewish, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Uncooked long-grain rice
    1/2 lb Mushrooms,cooked,chopped,OR
      1 cn Chopped mushrooms (4 oz.)
           Liquid from mushrooms.
    1/2 c  Chopped bell pepper
    1/2 lb Kosher smoked sausage
           Freshly chopped parsley
      2    Onions, chopped
  1 1/2    Sticks margarine, pareve
      1 c  Celery, chopped
      3    Chicken livers
      3    Chicken gizzards
      2 c  Clear chicken broth
      1 c  Water
           Pepper to taste.
 
  Boil gizzards until tender (abt. 30-35 min.); broil livers until
  brown; and saute sausage until slightly brown.  Drain meats and dice.
  Saute onions in heavy iron skillet until light brown.  Add bell
  pepper, celery, and mushrooms and cook until onions are transparent.
  Add remaining ingredients except sausage.  Cover and cook on low heat
  40 minutes, stirring often. Add sausage and place in 2-qt. chafing
  dish.  Garnish with parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ambrosia Rose'
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizer, Cajun/creol, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Grapefruit
      1    Pineapple
    1/2 c  Sugar (or more to taste)
           Nutmeg
      6    Oranges
      1 pt Strawberries
           Shredded coconut
    1/2 c  White or rose' wine
 
  Dice pinepple; cut grapefruit and oranges in sections.  Wash berries
  and remove stems; add to fruits.  Add sugar and let steep for several
  hours in refrigerator.  Before serving, add wine.  Sprinkle with
  shredded coconut and nutmeg.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Taka Hallah  (Make 2 Days Before Shabbas)
 Categories: Jewish, Bread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Oil
      2    Eggs, slightly beated
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 pn Saffron
           4 to 6 drops yellow color
      6 c  Flour, sifted (+1/2 c.maybe)
      2 pk Yeast
      2 c  Lukewarm water
    1/2 c  White raisins
           Poppy seeds
 
  In large mixer bowl, mix 1 1//2 cups flour, sugar, salt, saffron and
  yeast. Add oil all at once; gradually add water.  Beat 2 minutes at
  medium speed of mixer.  Add eggs, 1/2 c. flour, and food coloring.
  Beat at high speed 2 min.  Stir in 2 c. flour, then remaining 2 1/4
  c.  Pat dough and sides of bowl with a little oil  Cover with moist
  towel and regrigerate at least 24 hrs.
  
  The next day: punch down and let rise again in refrig. 12 to 24 hrs.
  
  The next day: flour board; divide dough into 4 pcs.  Press raisins
  into each section of dough using kneading motion.  Divide each loaf
  into 4 pcs. (total 16 pcs.).  Roll pcs. abt. 1" thick and abt. 8 to
  10 " long.  Pinch 3 pcs. together at end and braid; pinch other end.
  Place fourth pc on top of braid and pinch ends. (For Yom-tov form a
  round braided loaf.)
  
  Let stand, covered with dry towel, at room temp. for 1 hr.  Brush with
  slightly beaten egg and sprinkle with poppy seeds.  Bake at 400 F.
  for 20 to 25 min.  Makes four loaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bak-O-Bayou Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Head Iceberg lettuce
      1    Bunch watercress
      2    Creole tomatoes, cut into>>
           Wedges.
      1    Med. onion, sliced
    1/2    Clove garlic, crushed
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
  1 1/2 tb Anchovy paste
  1 1/2 tb Tarragon vinegar
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
      3 tb Chopped parsley
           Pareve imitation bacon bits
 
  Tear lettuce into lge. pcs. and cut watercress into sm. pcs.  Place
  lettuce, watercress, and tomatoes in a bowl.  Separate onion slices
  into rings and add to lettuce mixture.  Chill.
  
  Blend garlic with mayo. and anchovy paste in a bowl, then stir in
  vinegar and lemon juice slowly.  Add parsley and chill.  Pour
  dressing over lettuce mixture and garnish with imitation bacon bits.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Soup, la Fitte
 Categories: Appetizer, Jewish, Cajun/creol, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      5    Med. onions, sliced thin
      6 c  Pareve bouillon
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Sauterne wine
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/8 ts Black pepper
           Toast rounds
    1/4 c  Grated Swiss or Meunster ch.
 
  Melt butter in lge. saucepan.  Add onions and cook, stirring
  frequently, until golden brown.  Add wine and cook additional 5 min.
  Add bouillon, salt cayenne and black pepper and bring to a boil.
  Cover and simmer for 15 min.  Pour into 6 soup bowls and place toast
  round in each.  Sprinkle with grated cheese and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bayou Baked Red Snapper
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Whole Red Snapper (4 Lb.)
      1    Stick margarine, pareve
      1 bn Shallots, chopped
    1/2 ts Oregano
      1 cn Button mushrooms OR
      8    Large fresh mushrooms
           Salt and pepper to taste.
 
  Clean fish and pat dry.  Rub cavity with salt, pepper and margarine.
  Place in well-greased baking pan and set aside. Heat 3 or 4 tbs.
  margarine in heavy skillet.  Add shallots and saute until soft, but
  not brown. Add more margarine and mushrooms and continue cooking,
  shaking pan until most of fat is absorbed.  Stir in oregano and pour
  mixture over fish. Measure fish at its thickest point and bake
  exactly 10 min. per inch of thickness in preheated 450 F. oven.
  Baste several times with pan juices. Serves 8 to 10.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Okra and Tomatoes
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable, Tomato
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Pareve margarine
      1    Lge. onion, minced
    1/2    Bell pepper, diced
      1 qt Sliced okra
      4    Fresh tomatoes, coarse chop.
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Melt margarine in large skillet or heavy pot; add onion and saute over
  medium heat until transparent.  Add belll pepper, okra, and tomatoes
  and season to taste.  Lower heat, cover, and simmer 20 min.  Stir
  occasionally.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mock Crawfish Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Salad, Fish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Red snapper fillets
      4    Slices lemon
      1 sm Onion sliced
      1 c  Celelry, chopped fine
      1    Large carrot, grated
      2 qt Water
      1 sm Onion minced
    3/4 c  Chili sauce
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Mayonnaise
 
  Bring water to boil in large kettle.  Add red snappes, lemon, sliced
  onion, sald, and pepper.  Continue to boil for 20 min.  Drain fish;
  cool and flake.
  
  Toss fish with minced onion, celery, carrot, chili sauce, and
  mayonnaise. Adjust salt and pepper to taste.  Chill overnight.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Redfish Courtbouillon
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    5-6 lb. whole redfish
    1/2 c  Salad oil
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 lg Onions, finely chopped
      4    Shallots, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, fine chop
      2    Bell peppers, chopped
  2 1/2 c  Whole tomatoes, canned
      2    Bay leaves
      2    Sprigs thyme
      2    Ribs celelry, chopped
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Lemon slices
           Pimento strips
           Parsley sprigs
 
  Scale and gut fish; rinse well and pat dry.  Make roux with salad oil
  and flour; add onions and shallots and brown.  Add garlic, green
  peppers, tomatoes, bay leaves, thyme, celery, parsley, water, hot
  pepper sauce, salt and pepper.  Simmer in heavy iron skillet for abt.
  1 hr. Place fish in rectangular pyrex baking dish or roasting pan.
  Pour mixture over fish and baake in 350 F. oven for 45 min. or until
  fish is tender when tested with fork.  Pemove bay leaves before
  serving.  Garnish with lemon slices studded with pimento strips and
  parsley sprigs.  Serve with fluffy white rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Battered Eggplant
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Main dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
    2/3 c  Nondairy creamer or milk
      2    Eggs, beaten
      1    Eggplant, sliced or cut >>>
           Into chunks.
      4 tb Vegetable shortening
 
  Sift dry ingreds. together. Combine milk or nondairy creamer and
  eggs; beat into dry mixture.  Dip eggplant into batter and fry in
  shortening at 375 F. until golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggs Bene-Lox
 Categories: Jewish, Cheese/eggs, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg
      1    Slice toast OR
    1/2    English muffin, toasted
           Sour cream
      1 tb Hollandaise sauce (#25)
      1 sl Lox
           Kosher caviar
 
  Soak toast in sour cream and place in ramekin or small baking dish.
  Cover toast with lox and break egg on top.  Bake in 350 F. oven for
  abt. 12 to 15 min., or until egg is set. Remove from baking dish. Add
  Hollandaise Sauce and sprinkle with caviar. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Grits
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Grits
 
  Prepare grits according to package directions.  Pour cooked grits
  into 8 x 4 x 2 inch loaf pan and cool slightly.  Cover and
  refrigerate several hrs. or over night. Cut chilled grits in 12
  sections. Fry over med heat in samall amt. of butter in cast iron
  skillet until golden brown (abt. 10 min. per side).
  
  For richer, browner color, dip slices in beaten egg before frying.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Tomatoes
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Med.size Creole tomatoes
    1/2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs/flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
           Shortening
 
  Cut tomatoes crosswise into 1/2" thick slices.  Dip each slice in
  combined crumbs, salt and pepper.  Fry in small amt. of shortening
  until brown on both sides.
  
  Variation:  Dip in cornmeal instead of crumbs or flour.
  
  EXCELLENT!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sabra Crepes
 Categories: Jewish, Dessert, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Sifted 10x sugar
      2 tb Sabra liqueur OR>>>>
           Any brand kosher orange liq.
      1    Egg yolk
      1 c  Milk
      3    Egg yolks, well beaten
    1/2 c  Sifted cake flour
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
 
  FILLING:
     Thoroughly blend sugar and 1 tb. liqueur.  Add mixture to
  well-beaten egg yolk to make a paste; beating untill smooth (abt.
  consistency of mayonnaise).
  
  CREPES:
     Combine milk and egg yolks. Mix flour with sugar and salt.  Add
  liquid mixture to  dry ingreds., and mix thoroughly.  Preheat griddle
  to med heat and grease lightly with butter..  Use abt. 1/4 c. batter
  for each crepe. Crepes should be thin and abt. 5" in diameter.  When
  edges of crepe begin to brown, turn and brown other side.  When crepe
  is done, place spoonful of filling near center. Fold over filling at
  sides and ends.  Place on a heat-proof serving dish and bake in a 400
  F. oven for 5 min. or until lightly brown.  Crepes will puff
  slightly.  Remove from oven and sprinkle with powdered sugar.  Pour 1
  tbs. liqueur over crepes, light with match, and allow flame to burn
  down.  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vieux Carre' Spinach Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh spinach
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Finely grated onion
      6 sl Beef Frye--cooked crisp
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      2 tb Vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      5    Hard cooked eggs, chopped
      1    Hard cooked egg, sliced
 
  Wash spinach--drain.  Chill to crisp.  Combine oil, sugar, vinegar,
  onion, salt & mustard. Beat or blend in blender until dressing
  becomes thick and syrupy and sugar is thoroughly dissolved.
  
  Tear spinach in bite-sized pcs. and place in lge. salad bowl. Crumble
  Beef Frye and add with chopped eggs.  Pour dressing over salad and
  let stand abt. 1/2 hr.  Toss and garnish w/egg slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Grillades
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb 1/2" thick veal shoulder
      6 tb Schmaltz
      2 c  Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 c  Tomato, chopped
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      4 tb Flour
  2 1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
 
  Cut meat into serving-size pcs. and pound with mallet until 1/4"
  thick. Heat 4 tbs. schmaltz in lge. skillet over med. heat.  Saute
  meat until brown (abt. 5 min. per side).  Remove meat to a platter.
  Lower heat and saute onion, green pepper, garlic, tomato and thyme
  until light brown, stirring frequently.  Remove vegs. to meat
  platter.  Increase heat and add remaining schmaltz.  Stir in flour
  and cook until dark brown, stirring constantly. Lower heat and
  gradually add 1 1/4 c. water, stirring to blend. Add parsley, 1 tsp.
  salt, meat, and vegs. Cover and cook over low heat 30 min. Add
  additional salt and pepper to taste; stir in remaining water aas
  needed.   Cover and continue cooking slowly until meat is tender,
  abt. 45 min.  Stir occasionally.  Best when served with grits.  See
  #32.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grits Gris-Gris
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Grits (not quick cooking)
    3/4 ts Salt
  3 1/3 c  Boiling water OR >>>>
  2 1/3 c  Water mixed with>>>>>
      1 c  Nondairy cream, brought to>>
           Boil.
 
  Stir grits slowly into boiling salted water in heavy saucepan.
  Return to boil; reduce heat and cover.   Cook slowly for 25 to 30
  min., stirring occasionally. Serve with butter as side dish for
  breakfast as an accompaniment to smothered liver. (If served with
  liver, prepare with nondairy cream and water, and use pareve
  margarine on grits.)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oysters Moskowitz
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Appetizer, Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 cn 1 lb. Salmon
      6    Shallots, chopped
  1 1/2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1    Clove garlic, chopped
      2 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
    1/4 lb Pareve margarine
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Drain juices from salmon and set aside. Place salmon in deep bowl.
  Mix shallots, garlic, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, and
  margarine and cook in skillet until well blended, 5 to 10 min.  Put
  salmon back in skillet and simmer until done, abt. 10 min.  Add bread
  crumbs and enough salmon liquid until moist but not loose.  Place in
  ramekins while hot and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Jambalaya
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Cooked rice
      2 tb Pareve margarine
      3 c  Cooked veal, cut 1" cubes
      3    Shallots, chopped
      1 sl Pimento
      2    Hard cooked eggs, chopped
      1    Bouillon cube
      1 c  Boiling water
      2    Egg yolks
      1 c  Nondairy creamer
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
 
  Dissolve bouillon cube in water.  Heat margarine in skillet and saute
  shallots until soft; add veal and rice.  Stir until thoroughly
  heated; then add pimento, hard-cooked eggs, and bouillon.  Cook for 5
  min. on low heat, stirring gently to blend. Mix nondairy creamer with
  egg yolks, salt, and pepper until well blended. Add to veal and stir
  until mixture thickens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smothered Cabbage Rue Chartres
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Small onion, chopped
    1/4 lb Salami OR hot sausage
      1    Head cabbage, coarse chop
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Pareve margarine
 
  Saute' onion and meat in margarine.  Add cabbage (with water still
  clinging to leaves from washing), salt, and pepper.  Cover and cook
  over low heat for abt. 2 hrs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Okra and Tomato Ii
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 qt Sliced fresh okra
      4    Fresh tomatoes, peel, dice
      1    Med. green pepper, chopped
      1    Med. onion, chopped
      5 tb Olive oil
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Heat olive oil in lge. heavy skillet or pot and saute onion and green
  pepper until light brown.  Add okra and tomatoes and season to taste
  with salt & pepper.   Cover and cook over low heat 30 to 40 min.,
  stirring occasionally.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Pecan Pie
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Pie/tart, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    9" pie crust,unbaked
      1 c  Karo syrup, blue label
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Pecans
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Pareve margarine, melted
 
  Mix ingreds. together, adding pecans last.  Pour into pastry shell.
  Bake in 400 F. oven for 40 min. or until a knife inserted in center
  of filling comes out clean.  Cool on wire rack.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kosher Creole Seafood Gumbo
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Lge. onion, chopped
    1/2    Green pepper, chopped
      1    Clove garlic, chopped
      2 tb Veg. oil
      2 tb Flour
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes (15 oz.)
      1 cn Tomato paste (6 oz.)
      2 ts Salt
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Basil leaves
      1 lb Trout fillets
      1 pk Frozen sliced okra part thaw
    1/2 lb Redfish fillets
      3 c  Water
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      3 c  Hot cooked rice
 
  Saute vegs. slightly in oil in dutch oven.  Stir in flour; blend
  well. Add remaining ingreds. except fish, okra and rice.  Simmer
  covered for 30 min. Remove bay leaf.  Add fish and okra.  Cover and
  simmer additional 10 min., or until okra is tender.  Serve in soup
  bowls or plates over hot rice.
  
  Recipe may be easily doubled.  Freezes well.  Better next day.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Market Almond Torte
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 tb Butter or pareve margarine
      1 c  Light brown sugar
    1/2 ts Almond extract or flavor
      1    Egg
      5 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Pecans, chopped
    1/2 c  Almonds, chopped
      1 c  Heavy whipped cream
 
  Cream butter and sugar; add almond flavor, egg and flour. Blend well
  and add nuts.  Shape ino roll, wrap in foil, and place in freezer.
  When ready to serve, thaw abt. 30 min.. Slice 1" thick and top with
  whipped cream. Decorate with slivered almonds or additional chopped
  pecans.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mardi Gras Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Head fresh cauliflower
      2    Raw carrots
      1 cn Cut green beans (15 oz.)
      2 c  Celery, diced
      1    Jar chopped pimento (2 oz.)
      2    Onions, small, chopped fine
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 tb Salt
           Pepper to taste
      1 c  Tarragon vinegar
      1    Bell pepper, diced (opt.)
 
  Wash cauliflower and scrape carrots. Parboil each for 1 min.  Remove,
  drain, and cool.  Break cauliflower into bite-sized pcs.  Slice
  carrots in 1/2" pcs.  Drain juices from beans and pimento.
  
  Mix all ingreds. well and place in covered bowl in refrigerator.
  Allow at least 12 hr. to marinate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Red Bean Relish
 Categories: Jewish, Relish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Shallots
      1 tb Minced parsley
      2 tb Wine vinegar
      5 tb Salad oil
      2 c  Red beans, cooked, cold
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Chop shallots fine, including tops.  Add parsley, vinegar, and oil and
  season to taste.  Pour over beans and pack in jars.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Canal Street Brownies
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 20 servings
 
    2/3 c  Unsifted flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Sugar
      2 pk Baker's Redi-Blend chocolate
    1/2 c  Broken walnuts or pecans
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Pareve margarine
      1 ts Vanilla extract or flavor
 
  Combine flour, salt, and bvaking powder; set aside.  Beat eggs well;
  gradually blend in sugar.  Beat in margarine, and Redi-Blend, then
  blend in the flour mixture.  Stir in nuts and vanilla.
  
  Pour into greased 8 inch square pan and bake at 350 F. abt. 25 min.
  Cool in pan; then cut in squares.  Makes abt. 20 brownies.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bayou Boeuf Jambalaya
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Shortening
    1/4 lb Kosher salami, cubed
      1    Sprig thyme
      1    Onion, sliced
           Salt & Pepper to taste
      2 c  Tomatoes
      1 c  Uncooked long grain rice
      1 tb Flour
    1/4 c  Green pepper, minced
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Sprig parsley, minced
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 lb Kosher smoked sausage.
  1 1/4 c  Tomato juice
 
  Melt shortening in heavy saucepan over medium heat.  Stir in flour,
  salami, and green pepper.  Simmer 5 min, stirring constantly.
  
  Add remaining ingredients except rice. Bring to boil.  Add rice to
  liquid. Cover and simmer for 40 min. until all liquid is absorbed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dixieland Casserole
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
      5    Med. zucchini sliced 1/4"
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Sweet basil
      5    Tomatoes
    1/2 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
      2 tb Pareve margarine, melted
 
  Heat oil in skillet.  Add garlic and zucchini, and saute for a few
  minutes. Remove from heat and set aside.
  
  Peel tomatoes and cut into slices. Place enough zucchini slices in
  bottom of an oiled 1 1/2 qt. casserole to cover bottom.  Cover squash
  with tomato slices.  Continue to layer squash and tomatoes, ending
  with layer of sliced tomatoes.   Sprinkle top of last layer of
  tomatoes with basil, oregano, and seasoned bread crumbs mixed with
  margarine.  Bake uncovered for 30 min. in 350 F. oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Pie
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Pie/tart, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/4 ts Mace
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Mashed,cooked sweet potatoes
      2    Eggs, slightly beaten
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Nondairy creamer
      2 tb Melted pareve margarine
      1    9" unbaked pie shell
 
  Mix sugar, cinnamon, allspice, mace, and salt.  Stir in sweet
  potatoes. Combine eggs, water, nondairy creamer, and margarine.  Add
  to sweetpotato mixture.  Pour into unbaked pie shell.  Bake in 400 F.
  oven abt. 40 min., or until knife inserted in middle comes out clean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bourbon Street Broccoli
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 pk Frozen broccoli (10 oz.)
      1 cn Tuna fish (9 1/2 oz.)
      1 cn Cream celery soup,undiluted
      1 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
      3 tb Melted butter or margarine
      2 c  Water
      1    Egg
           Cheddar cheese strips
 
  Mix ingreds. together, blending well.  Place mixture in individual
  ramekins and put cheese strips on top.  Bake for about 1 hr. at 350
  F. Sprinkle with additional bread crumbs, if desired.
  
  May also be made as casserole in single pyrex dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Royal Street Jambalaya
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    1 lb. jar gefilte fish
      2 c  Cooked rice
      2 tb Butter or pareve margarine
    1/4 c  Bell pepper, chopped
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 cn Condensed tomato soup>>>
           Undiluted.
      1 c  Milk
           Paprika
 
  Saute onion and green pepper in butter until tender but not brown.
  Add salt, pepper, thyme, soup, and milk.  Mis with rice Pour into
  greased 1 1/2 qt. baking dish.
  
  Drain gefilte fish and arrange on top; press into rice mixture and
  sprinkle with paprika.  Bake in  350 F. oven for 30 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Candied Yams
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Whole yams (30 oz.)
    1/4 c  Seedless raisins
           Juice from 1 lemon
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Pareve margarine
      1    Apple, cored and sliced
      2    Peaches, peeled and sliced
    1/2 c  Dark brown sugar
    1/2 c  White sugar
 
  Remove yams and place in casserole dish.  Pour liquid from yams into
  bowl.
   Add white sugar, brown sugar, and cinnamon, and mix until dissolved.
  Pour over yams.
  
  Mix fruit together; add to yams and liquid.  Dot with margarine. Bake
  in 400 F. oven for abt. 45 min. or until syrup has thickened slightly
  and yams look glazed.
  
  Variation:  Substitute oranges for peaches.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread Pudding Ii
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 sl French bread--1/2" thick
      4    Eggs, separated
      1 pn Salt
      1 c  Raisins
      6 tb Sugar
  3 1/2 c  Milk
      1 tb Vanilla extract or flavor
    1/2    Stick butter
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Break bread into pieces and soften  in small amount of milk; place in
  1 1/2 qu. baking dish. Beat sugar and egg yolks together until well
  blended; add milk and mix well.  Blend in vanilla, cinnamon, and
  raisins.  Pour mixture over bread.  Place dish in pan of water and
  bake in 300 F. oven for 40 to 50 min. or until knife comes out clean.
  
  Beat egg whites until foamy. Add salt; gradually add 2 tbs. sugar and
  continue beating at high speed until stiff peaks form.  Spread whites
  on top of pudding.  Return to oven, raise heat to 350 F. and bake
  until merengue is brown.  Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Etouffee
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 cn Salmon--15 1/2 oz.
      6 tb Pareve margarine
      2 tb Flour
  1 1/4 c  Onions, chopped
      1 ts Tomato puree
      1    Clove garlic, chopped
      2    Shallots, chopped
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
 
  Melt margarine in pan and remove from heat.  Stir in flour until
  smooth Return to heat and cook until dark brown, stirring constantly.
  Lower heat; stir in onions, shallots, garlic, and celery and cook
  until soft abt. 10 to 15 min., stirring often.
  
  Lower heat to simmer. Dissolve tomato puree in 1/4 cup water and stir
  into roux.  Add remaining water, salmon and parsley.  Stir to blend.
  Add tabasco sauce, salt, and pepper.  Cover and simmer about 20 min.
  Serve over hot cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: West Bank Veal Birds
 Categories: Jewish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Veal cutlets, cut thin
           Salt and pepper
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      8 tb Rice Dressing (see #53)
           Flour
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 tb Onion soup mix
 
  Pound cutlets with mallet until thin, being careful not to split meat.
  Season with salt and pepper.  Lay squares of veal on a flat surface;
  put a spoonful of dressing in center of each one.  Roll up squares
  and secure with toothpicks.  Roll in flour and brown in hot fat.
  
  Add 1/2 c. cold water and cover tightly so that steam will not
  escape. Cook 1 1/2 hrs. until brown.
  
  Make gravy by adding Worcestershire sauce, onion soup mix, and
  oregano.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Dressing
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 lb Broiled chicken liver ground
      3    Cooked gizzards, ground
      2    Large onions, ground
      2    Cloves garlic, ground
      1 c  Celery, ground
    1/2 c  Parsley, minced
    1/2 c  Shallots, ground
      6 tb Pareve margarine
      1    Egg, well beaten
      4 c  Cooked rice
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Cayenne to taste
 
  Saute livers, giblets, onions, garlic,celery, and shallots in
  margarine until onions and celery are soft and meat is brown.  Add
  egg, parsley, salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste; stir.  Cover and
  simmer 10 min.  Add cooked rice, mix thoroughly, and heat through.
  Yields enough dressing for 10 to 12 lb. turkey, or may be baked in
  greased casserole dish in 350 F. oven for 20 min.  Serves 8 to 10.
  
  Note that meats and vegetables are GROUND, not chopped.  That's the
  secret to this recipe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans Piquant
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Whole fresh green beans
      1 c  Water
      4 sl Beef Frye
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Med. onion, thinly sliced
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  In saucepan, combine green beans, onion, water, and  1/2 ts. salt.
  Cook, covered , 25 min. or until beans are tender; drain. In skillet,
  cook Beef Frye until crisp.  Drain, reserving abt. 3 tbs. drippings.
  Crumble Beef Frye and set aside.
  
  Return reserved drippings to skillet; stir in vinegar, sugar,
  Worcestershire sauce, and 1/4 ts. salt.  Bring mixture to boiling.
  Pour sauce over beans in saucepan, sprinkle with crumbled Beef Frye,
  and toss lightly to mix.  Cover, return to heat for 2 to 3 min. to
  heat through and blend flavors.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole-Style Red Beans and Rice
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 lb Red beans
      8    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1    Rib celery, chopped
    1/4 lb Salami
      1 lb Smoked sausage
      1    Large onion, chopped
    1/4    Bell pepper, chopped
      1 ts Sugar
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 pn Thyme
      1 lb Weiners
 
  Wash beans thoroughly; cover with water and place on medium fire.
  Chop sausage and salami and add to beans; add garlic celery, onions,
  green pepper, sugar, and thyme.  Continue cooking until beans are
  soft, adding more water if necessary.
  
  When beans are soft, add weiners, sliced in 1" pcs., and salt and
  pepper to taste.  Cook until gravy is thick and creamy.  Serve over
  hot cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Blintze Souffle
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     12    Frozen cheese blintzes>>>>
           Defrosted.
    1/4 lb Butter
      4    Eggs, well beaten
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla extract or flavor
 
  Melt butter in 2-qt. casserole; place blintzes in casserole in 1
  layer. Blend other ingredients with well-beaten eggs and pour over
  blintzes. Bake 45 Min. in 350 F. oven until top starts to brown.
  Serve with fruit topping, or sour cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pain Perdu ("Lost Bread") Aka French Toast
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2    Eggs, beaten
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Vanilla extract or flavor
      6 sl Stale bread
           Sugar, honey, or jam
 
  Combine sugar, milk, salt, vanilla, and eggs; beat well.  Soak bread
  in mixture; fry in hot butter until well browned on both sides.
  Sprinkle with 10x sugar, or pour honey or jam on top.
  
  This dish is best made using stale french bread cut in thick slices.
  Also challah left from Shabas dinner.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Passover Pain Perdu
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Salt
      6 sl Passover sponge cake cut>>>
           In thick slices (1").
      2 tb Butter
      6 tb Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Combine milk, salt, and eggs.  Soak sponge cake slices in mixture.  In
  skillet, fry in butter until well browned on both sides.  Combine
  sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle over slices.  Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Flounder Barataria
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Butter, divided
      2 lb Flounder filets
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
      1 tb Paprika
    1/4 c  Grated cheddar cheese
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Fine bread crumbs
 
  Grease a 2 qt. baking dish with 1 ts. butter.  Arrange fish filets in
  baking dish.  Blend salt, Tabasco Sauce, paprika, and cheddar cheese
  into sour cream and spread over fish.  Top with bread crumbs and dot
  with remaining 3 ts. butter. Bake uncovered at 350 F. for 30 min. or
  until fish flakes easily with fork.
  
  Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Bean Soup
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 sl Beef Frye
      1    Onion, sliced thin
      3    Ribs celery, diced
      2    Bay leaves
      1 tb Flour
      2 c  Hot water
      2 c  Cooked red beans
      2 sl Lemon
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
 
  Cook Beef Frye, onion and celery in a sauce pan until onion is
  tender. Add bay leaves and flour and stir until smooth.  Add hot
  water, red beans, lemon, salt , pepper, and Worcestershire sauce and
  cook for abt. 20 min. Press through coarse sieve and place back in
  saucepan.  Heat thoroughly and serve.
  
  Consistency may be adjusted by adding desired amount of either chicken
  stock (kosher broth) or water.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oysters Mock-A-Feller
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Appetizer, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     18    Gefilte fish pcs. in a jar
    1/3    Bunch spinach
      6    Shallots
      3    Ribs celery
    1/3    Bunch parsley
    1/3    Head of lettuce
      1    Stick pareve margarine,soft
      1 tb Worscestershire sauce
      1 ts Anchovy paste
      1 ds Tabasco sauce
    3/4 oz 80 proof absinthe (Anisette)
    1/3 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
 
  Chop all greens fine and mix with margarine and half of bread crumbs.
  Reserve remaining bread crumbs.  Add remaining ingredients, except
  fish pieces, and blend thoroughly. Drain gefilte fish, slice in half,
  and place in oven-proof shell shaped ramekins. Set shells in pan of
  hot, coarse kosher rock salt.  Spread sauce over fish pieces and
  sprinkle with remaining bread crumbs. Bake at 450- F. abt. 25 min.;
  then place under broiler to brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Baked Fish
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Med. onion, chopped
      2 tb Shortening
      2 c  Cooked whole tomatoes
      1    Bay leaf
      2 lb Fish filet
    1/4 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 pk Frozen kernel corn OR>>>
  1 1/2 c  Cooked corn
 
  Saute onion and green pepper in shortening until tender.  Add flour
  and blend.  Then add tomatoes, aslt, pepper, and bay leaf; brting to
  a boil. Cover and simmer 10 mi.   Add corn and cook over low heat 10
  min. longer, stirring occasionally.  Remove bay leaf. Arrange fish in
  greased shallow baking dish. Cover with vegetable mixture and abke at
  400 F. for 30 min or until done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Faked Froglegs
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12    Thighs from frying chickens
      2 tb Pareve margarine
      3    Onions, chopped
      3    Creole tomatoes
      1    Sprig thyme
      1    Bay leaf
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1    Bell pepper, chopped fine
    1/4 c  Chopped mushrooms
    1/2 c  Tomato sauce
      1 c  Chicken consomme
      1 ds Tabasco sauce
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Brown thighs in margarine.  After abt. 10 min. add onion and brown
  with thighs.  Add tomatoes; cover and let brown.  Cook very slowly,
  adding salt and pepper to taste, Tabasco, thyme, bay leaf, and
  garlic. Smother mixture slowly for 20 min., stirring frequently.  Add
  bell pepper, mushrooms, and tomato sauce and continue to cook slowly
  until thighs are tender. Add chicken consomme and continue to cook
  slowly, covered, for abt. 1/2 hr.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: File' Gumbo Lafayette
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Soup/stew, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Okra,frozen,sliced (10 oz.)
    1/3 c  Beef Frye drippings
      1 c  Green onions w/tops,chopped
      1 c  Celery, diced
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 c  Hot water
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes (16 oz.)
           Salt to taste
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
           Tabasco to taste
      1 cn Salmon (15 1/2 oz.)
      1 ds File' or to taste
  1 1/3 c  Cooked rice
 
  Thaw okra and saute in Beef-Frye drippings or veg. shortening for 10
  min. stirring occasionally. Add onions, celery, and garlic and cook
  abt. 5 min. more.  Stir in flour.  Add hot water, stirring
  constantly, and cook until slightly thickened. Add tomatoes, salt,
  pepper, and by leaf and cover. Simmer for additional 20 min. on low
  heat.  Remove bay leaf and add Tabasco sauce. De-bone and skin salmon
  and add to gumbo. Heat thoroughly. Add dash of file' just before
  serving. Serve in soup bowls or plates over hot cooked rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomatoes Terrebone
 Categories: Jewish, Cajun/creol, Vegetable, Main dish, Tomato
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn Spinach (27 oz.)
      1    Large onion, chopped fine
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Oregano
      3 tb Vegatable shortening
      2    Eggs, beaten
      6    Large ripe tomatoes
           Bread crumbs
           Pareve margarine
 
  Drain and rinse spinach.  Pick stems from leaves and squeeze dry.
   Saute' onion in shortening until transparent; add salt, pepper, and
  oregano, and stir.  Mix spinach and eggs together.  Add to onions and
  cook until moderately dry, stirring often so mixture does not stick
  to bottom of pan. Cut tops off of tomatoes.  Scoop out pulp (you may
  save for other uses). Stuff tomatoes with spinach mioxture.  Sprinkle
  with bread crumbs and dot with margarine.  Place tomatoes in baking
  pan and bake a 350 F. for 30 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guacamole (Avocado Dip)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Avocados
      2 ts Fresh lime juice
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Green onions
    1/2    Fresh tomato,peel,chop fine
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      2 tb Fine chop jalapeno, seeded
    1/2 ts Cilantro, minced
 
  Cut avocados into halves, remove pits, and scoop flesh into a mixing
  bowl. Mash with fork, masher or hand elec. mixer on low speed
  briefly.  Add lime juice, salt,and remaining ingreds. and stir in.
  If you like it hotter, add another jalapeno or two.  Desireable
  texture should be a little chunky.
  
  Yield:  2 cups approx.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guacamole Ii (Avocado Dip)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Avocados, sliced, pitted
      1    Med onion, minced
    1/3 c  Chunky style picante sauce
           Juice of 2 limes
      2    Cloves garlic, pressed
           Salt to taste
      1 ds Accent
 
  Scoop out avocados using large serving spoon. Place in mixing bowl
  and mash with fork, masher, or elec. hand mixer on low speed briefly.
  Texture should be slightly chunky.  Stir in remaining ingredients.
  Add a little more picante sauce to "loosen" mixture if necessary or
  desirable.
  
  Yield: 2 cups approx.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chile Con Queso  (Chile Cheese Dip)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Monterey Jack cheese
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      1    Med. sized tomato,peeled>>>
           Chopped fine.
      1    Med. onion, chopped fine
    1/4 c  Parched green chiles
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
 
  In double boiler over low heat, melt cheeses.  When cheese melts,
  stir in cream gradually, stirring constantly.  Add remaining
  ingredients.  Stir to blend flavors.  More cream may be necessary; if
  so, add only little bit at a time--a little goes a long way.  Serve
  warm in chafing dish, etc.
  
  Yield: abt. 2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Picante Con Queso  (Cheese Dip)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Jar chunky style picante>>>
           Sauce.
      1 lb Velveeta
           Condensed or sweet milk
 
  Cut Velveeta into cubes or chunks and melt in double boiler over low
  heat. Add picante sauce.  Stir until cheese is melted and sauce is
  well blended. Add sweet milk or condensed milk as desired to obtain
  proper "dipping" consistency.  If necessary, add more velveeta BEFORE
  adding milk.
  
  Use any cheese dips for nachos, tostadas, topping for 'burgers, spoon
  over prepared french fries.
  
  Yield: abt. 3 cups
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mashed Bean Dip
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Drained,cooked pinto beans
      2    Green onions, minced
    3/4 c  Jack or Cheddar,grated
    1/4 ts Cilantro, minced
      1 tb Chili powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      2 tb Bacon drippings
 
  Mash beans, add the other ingreds. except the fat, and mix well,
  seasoning with salt and garlic to taste.
  
  Heat fat in chafing dish, add the mixture and stir until cheese is
  melted and the dip is bubbling.  Serve warm with freshly made
  tostadas.
  
  Yield: approx. 2 cups
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southwestern Corn Bread
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Yellow corn meal
      1 tb Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    2/3 c  Melted butter/bacon grease
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Kernel corn
    1/4 lb Jack or Cheddar, grated
      4 oz Green chiles, chopped
    1/2 c  Bacon bits
 
  Preheat oven to 375 F.  Grease 9" square pan or lge. cast iron
  skillet. Mix dry ingreds. together and make a well in center.  Add
  geggs, butter and sour cream and blend thoroughly. Fold in corn
  kernels.
  
  Pour half of batter into prepared pan.  Cover with grated cheese and
  chiles.  Pour remaining batter on top.  Add bacon bits if desired.
  Bake 30 to 40 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sopa De Tortillas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Soup/stew, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Onion, minced
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      2 tb Bacon drippings or lard
      2 c  Beef stock
    1/4 ts Cumin, ground
    1/4 c  Jack cheese, grated
    1/4 ts Cumin, ground
    1/4 c  Jack cheese, grated
      4 c  Crisp tostadas
      3    Whole,dried,crushed chiles>>
           Anaheim or other mild chile.
 
  Saute the onion and garlic in the bacon drippings or lard in a med.
  sized saucepan.   Add the stock, chiles, and cumin and simmer until
  the chiles are tender, abt. 30 min.  Ladle soup into bowls or mugs
  and top each bowl with some of the grated cheese.   Divide half of
  the tostados evenly among the servings.  Heat the bowls under the
  broiler for abt. 5 min. to melt cheese.  Sprinkle a few more tostados
  on each.  Serve remaining tostados separately in bowl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chorizo Enchiladas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Chorizo, link or bulk
      4 c  Red chile sauce
     12    Corn tortillas (1 pkg.)
           Cooking oil
      3 c  Longhorn cheese, grated
      1 pt Sour cream
      2 c  Shredded lettuce
      1    Recipe guacamole, OR
      2 c  Prepared guacamole
           Ripe olives
 
  Remove sausage from casings if using links, and crumble.  Place in a
  heavy frying pan and cook, stirring often to keep the sausage
  crumbly.  Drain well.  It's really greasy. Add red chile sauce (you
  may used ready prepared sauce also--or substitute chunky style
  picante sauce) to drained meat in frying pan and cook and stir to
  blend flavors, abt. 15 min.  Place 6 earthenware plates in an oven
  set at 350 F. to warm. Lightly fry the tortillas and drain between
  layers of paper towel. Assemble individual servings like lasagna,
  starting with spoonful of sauce on plate and ending with sauce
  sprinkled with cheese.
  
  Heat in the oven to melt the cheese, for 3 to 5 min.  To serve, top
  with sour cream and garnish with lettuce, guacamole and ripe olives.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Chicken Enchiladas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Chicken stock
      1 pt Whipping cream or half&half
      2    Green onions & tops, chopped
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 pt Sour cream
     12    Corn tortillas
      3 c  Cooked chicken breast
      2    Pimentos, cut in strips
    1/2 lb Cheddar cheese, grated
           Green chile sauce, or salsa
           Lettuce, coarsely chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  Mix flour with stock and heat until slightly
  thickened.  Add the whipping cream (or half &  half), green onion,
  salt and pepper.  Bring to boil.  Stir in sour cream until well
  mixed.  Dip each tortilla in cream sauce, then arrange chicken and
  strip of pimento down center of each tortilla.  Roll and place in
  greased baking dish (or spray with food release)seam side down.  Pour
  remaining cream sauce over all and bake for 30 min.  Remove from oven
  and sprinkle grated cheese over all and return to oven untill cheese
  is melted.  Arrange coarsely chopped lettuce around edges of dish.
  Serve with green chile sauce, or salsa cruda, or Pico de Gallo.
  
  Recipe easily expands to serve a crowd.  Excellent for buffet service.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three Bean Chili
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Chili, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Jar-prepared brown gravy
      1 cn Whole tomatoes, chopped(1#)
      1 tb Chili powder
      1 cn Spicy chili beans (15 oz.)
      1 cn Garbanzo beans (15 oz.)
      1 cn Pinto or Kidney beans
      1 cn Chopped green chiles (4 oz.)

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Yogurt or sour cream
           Grated cheddar cheese
           Sliced green onions
 
  Drain all canned ingredients before adding;  Combine gravy, chopped
  tomatoes and chili powder in 3 qt. saucepan.  Bring to boil and stir
  in beans and chiles.  Cover; simmer 15 min. to blend flavors, stirring
  occasionally.  Serve with desired toppings.
  
  Variation:  brown 1 lb. coarsely ground beef in skillet.  Drain well.
  Add to chili mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tamale Pie Ii
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 c  Water
      3 c  Yellow cornmeal
      1 tb Salt
      3 lb Ground beef
      1 lb Chorizo, crumbled
      1    Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      1 c  Whole kernel corn
      1 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
      1 c  Ripe olives, pitted
      1 c  Chicken broth
  3 1/2 c  Canned tomatoes, chopped
      1 tb Chili powder (or more)
      1 ts Cumin, ground
      1 ts Black pepper, ground
      1 c  Jack cheese, grated
     12    Stuffed green olives(sliced)
 
  Heat 5 cups of the water to boiling.  Mix cornmeal, salt and
  remaining 3 cups water together and pour into boiling water, stirring
  constantly. Cook until thickened. Cover.
  
  Before mixture cools, use it to line a very large casserole dish.
  Reserve 1/4 of mush for the topping. Brown the ground beef, chorizo
  and onion. Add all remaining ingredients except the cheese and green
  olives. Simmer mixture until somewhat thickened. Taste and adjust
  seasonings. Spoon the mixture into the mush lined casserole and top
  with reserved mush. Garnish top with grated Jack cheese, and with the
  sliced olives if desired. Bake at 325 F. for 2 or more hrs. EXCELLENT
  BUFFET DISH!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tamale Pie Iii
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 sl Bacon
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 c  Whole kernel corn
    1/4 c  Chopped green chiles
      3    Green onions w/tops, chopped
    1/4 c  Cornmeal
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 ts Chili powder (or more)
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 ts Cumin, ground
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz. can)
      1    Cornmeal Pie crust (see #80)
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Evaporated milk
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      2 c  Jack cheese, grated
      4    Stuffed olives, sliced
 
  Fry bacon until crisp; break into lge. pcs. Set aside. Chill bacon
  drippings until firm for use in crust. Brown ground beef in large
  skillet; drain off fat. Stir in next 10 ingreds. Prepare the
  piecrust, and use it to line a 9" pie pan.  Place meat mixture in the
  pan. Bake at 425 F. for 25 min. Mean while, combine egg, evapporated
  milk, mustard and cheese. Spread on top of the pie and decorate with
  the reserved bacon pcs. and the sliced olives.  Bake for 5 min.
  longer, or until cheese melts.   Let stand for 10 min., or until
  firm, before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornmeal Pie Crust--1 Crust for 9" Pie
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  All purpose flour
      2 tb Cornmeal
    1/3 c  Firm bacon drippings OR>>>>
    1/3 c  Shortening OR lard
      3 tb Cold water (or 1 more)
 
  Combine flour and cornmeal, then cut in bacon drippings.  When
  mixture is granular, add the water, in small quantities to insure a
  flaky crust, until pastry is mixed.
  
  Roll out on a floured surface to a circle 1 1/2 times larger than an
  inverted 9" pie pan.  Fit pastry into pan and form a fluted edge all
  around.
  
  CRUST FOR TAMALE PIE III--see #79.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chiles Rellenos (Fried Stuffed Chiles)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 lg Mild, green chiles w/stems
           <<<OR>>>
      3 cn Green chiles (4 oz.cns)
    1/2 lb Jack cheese cut into long>>>
           Narrow, strips.

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
      1 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Yellow or white cornmeal
      1 c  Milk
      2    Eggs, slightly beaten
 
  Parch and peel chiles leaving stems on.  Cut small slit below  the
  stem, removing seeds if desired.  Insert strips of Jack cheese being
  careful not to split chile.
  
  Prepare batter:  Sift flour with baking powder and sald, then add
  cornmeal.Blend milk and slightly beaten eggs, then combine milk
  mixture with dry mixture and blend together. slightly moisten each
  chile with water--dip in plain flour, then in batter.  Allow to drain
  slightly and drop in deep fat which has been heated to 375 F.
  
  Fry until golden. Drain on paper towels. Keep warm on platter in 300
  F. oven while completing frying and serve immediately.
  
  Variations: For thicker crust "double-dip" (repeat dipping sequence).
  :           For crunchy crust use buttermilk instead of sweet milk in
  batter.
  
  Hint:  Keep one hand for "dry", the other for "wet".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carne Asado (Mexican Style Beef Tips & Gravy)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Beef stew meat
      4    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1    Onion, grated
      1 ts Cumin, ground
      1 ts Black pepper, ground
      2 cn Tomato sauce (or 1 large)
           Granule style beef bouillon
           Flour
 
  Sort through stew meat trimming excess fat, gristle. Cut into 1" pcs.
  if necessary. In med. size, heavy bottom pot, place enough bacon
  drippings or melted lard to cover bottom.  Place stew meat, garlic
  and onion in pot and saute untill meat is lightly browned.  Add water
  to cover and two or three tbs. beef bouillon, cumin, pepper and
  tomato sauce.  Cover.  Simmer on low heat until meat is tender.
  Toward end of cooking time (abt. 1 hr.) add flour to thicken and
  continue simmering , stirring from time to time, der additional 10
  min.  Remove from heat and serve with spanish rice (Sopa de Arroz)
  and refried beans.  Salsa cruda, Pico de Gallo are good garnishes.
  Coarsely chopped lettuce and tomatoes and shredded cheddar cheese.
  Serve with warm flour tortillas, or make soft tacos.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chiles Rellenos Ii  (Spicy Meat Filled Peppers)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef stew meat
      4 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Corriander, ground
    1/2 ts Cloves, ground
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      2 tb Onion, chopped
      1 c  Raisins
     12    Green chiles
      1 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
 
  Cook meat in water.  When done, grind or puree in blender.  Mix in 1
  ts. salt, spices, garlic, onion, and raisins.  Add enough broth to
  moisten and cook untill thick.  Parch and peel chiles and stuff with
  meat mixture. Prepare batter; combine flour, baking powder and 1/2
  ts. salt, the add the eggs and milk, beating to form smooth batter.
  Dip each chile in batter and place in deep fat heated to 375 F.  Fry
  until golden.  Keep warm untill all are completed.  Serve
  immediately.  Serve with or without a tomato sauce or salsa; or,
  serve sauce on side dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Picadillo    (Spicy Beef)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lean beef, chopped coarse
      1    Med. onion,chopped fine
      2 lg Fresh tomatoes,peel,chop
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 pn Cloves
    1/4 ts Cumin, ground
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
    1/2 c  Almonds, blanched, slivered
 
  Brown meat over med. heat.  After meat begins to cook and some he fat
  begins to cook out, add the onion.  Cook until onion is translucent.
  Drain off excess fat, if any.
  
  Add all remaining ingreds. except almonds.  Simmer for abt. 30 min.
  Add the almonds just before serving; use as garnish for top of dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken with Rice (Arroz Con Pollo)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2    Fryers, cut in serving pcs.
      2 ts Salt
      6    Chorizo links
      4 c  Uncooked rice
      2 ts Garlic, minced
      1 lg Onion, chopped fine
      1 lg Bell pepper, chopped fine
    1/4 ts Mexican saffron, crumbled
      6 c  Chicken stock (or more)
      6 lg Ripe tomatoes,peel,chop
      1 pk Frozen green peas
      4 oz Pimento strips (sm. jar)
 
  Pour oil into a large heavy fying pan and heat to med-high temp.  Add
  the chicken pcs. and sprinkle with salt.  You may need to fry part at
  a time. Add more oil if needed.  Brown each pc. and transfer to lge.
  baking dish.
  
  In same oil, brown chorizo links-remove to baking dish, spacing
  between chicken pcs.  Add half the rice in even layer.  In same fat,
  saute garlic, onion and bell pepper, stirring to cook evenly.  When
  vegs. are limp, distribute evenly over top of the chicken, sausage
  and rice, then spoon remaining rice over the top.  Add saffron to
  chicken stock and mix well. Pour over rice.  Add the chopped
  tomatoes.  Cover tightly and bake at 350 F. for 1 1/2 hrs.  DON'T
  PEEK!!!
  
  Meantime, slightly cook green peas with a pinch of baking soda and
  keep warm in the pan.  Check to be sure rice is fluffy and chicken
  pieces well done.  If not, bake a little longer.  For service
  transfer to another dish, if desired, and garnish with drained green
  peas and pimento strips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Style Pork Chops
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Pork chops
      2 lg Bell peppers, sliced
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Crushed basil
      1 ts Sugar
      2 lg Onions, sliced
      1 ts Salt
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (16 oz.)
    1/2 ts Beau Monde seasoning
      1 ts Water
 
     Trim fat from 1 chop.  Rub fat over bottom of skillet on med heat.
  Dirscard fat.  Brown chops on both sides.  Add onion, green pepper,
  tomatoes and their liquid, basil, Beau Monde seasoning, salt and
  sugar. Boil, reduce heat to low, cover and simmer 45 min.  Remove
  chops to serving dish.  Blend cornstarch and water in cup until
  smooth, gradually stir into liquid and cook until thickened, abt.
  2-3 min. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chops in Wine
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Onion, sliced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      6    Loin chops, 3/4" thick
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      3 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2    Stick oleo
      1 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Salad oil
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
     Saute onion in hot oil in large skillet, drain on paper towels and
  set aside.  Reserve drippings.  Combine butter, mustard, salt and
  pepper. Stir to make paste, spread on both sides of chops.  Brown
  chops on both sides in reserved drippings, drain.  Return onions to
  skillet, add wine, cover and simmer 1 hr. or until chops are done.
  Sprinkle with chopped parsley before serving. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Porkaghetti Platter
 Categories: Meat, Rice, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Pork blade stks. 1/2" thick
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 cn Tomato sauce (15 oz.)
      1 tb Instant minced onion
    1/2 ts Rosemary
      2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1 pk Spaghetti (7 oz.)
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Lard or drippings
    2/3 c  Water
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/8 ts Garlic pwdr.
    1/2 c  Stuffed green olives, 1/2's
           Grated Romano cheese
 
     Cut pork steaks into strips, 1/4" thick & 2 to 3 inches long.
  Combine flour, salt and pepper; dredge pork, reserve excess flour.
  Add tomato sauce, water, onion, oregano, resemary and garlic powder.
  Stir to combine. Cover tightly and simmer 45 minutes or until meat is
  tender.  Stir in mushrooms and olives, continue to cook covered for
  15 min.  Cook spaghetti according to directions, drain and arrange on
  platter.  Serve meat and sauce with spaghetti.  Sprinkle with Romano
  cheese. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR
  38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet & Sour Pork
 Categories: Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless pork
      1    Egg, beaten
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    3/4 c  Salad oil
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      3    Green peppers, cut in strips
      1 cn Pineapple chunks, undrained
      3 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      2 ts Soy sauce
           Hot cooked rice
 
     Trim fat from pork and cut meat into 1 inch cubes.  Combine egg,
  flour, salt and pepper, mix well.  Pour mixture over pork cubes,
  coating well. Heat oil and garlic in heavy skillet over med. heat,
  add pork and cook until each pc. is golden brown on all sides.  Drain
  off pan drippings, reserving 1 tbs. of drippings.  Add green pepper,
  1 tbs. reserved drippings and undrained pineapple chunks to pork in
  skillet.  Simmer over low heat 5 minutes.  Combine cornstarch and
  sugar, stir in chicken broth, vinegar and soy sauce.  Add to skillet.
  Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, unti sauce is smooth and
  thickened.  Serve over rice. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pigs in Blankets
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Frankfurters
     10 sl Bacon
      1 cn Biscuits
      5 sl Cheese
 
     Take each frank, wrap 1/2 slice cheese around it.  Take 1 pc.
  bacon and wrap over frank and cheese.  Wrap 1 biscuit around frank.
  Continue until ingreds. are used up.  Place on cookie sheet and bake
  at 450 F. until golden brown.  Serve hot. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Pot Roast
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    5 lb. pot roast
      2    Med. onions, sliced
    1/2 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  Wine vinegar
      1 ts Rosemary leaves
           Potatoes (optional)
      2 tb Cooking oil
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Salt
 
     Brown roast on all sides in hot oil in large roaster, add onions
  and garlic.  Combine remaining ingredients and pour over roast.  Bake
  at 350 F. for abt. 2 hrs.  Small peeled potatoes can be placed around
  at this time if desired.  Return to oven and continue to cook
  aditional hour or until roast is tender. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: California Pot Roast
 Categories: Meat, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    5 lb. chuck or rump roast
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
      3    Onions, med., sliced thin
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      3 tb Oil
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Catsup
 
     Brown roast well on both sides in oil in heavy pan or Dutch oven.
  Add salt, pepper, water, onions, tomato sauce and garlic.  Cover
  tightly and simmer over low heat about 1 1/2 hrs.  Combine brn.
  sugar, mustard, lemon juice, vinegar, catsup and Worcestershire
  sauce.  Pour over meat.  Cover and continue cooking about 1 1/2 hrs.
  or until meat is fork tender. Remove meat to warm platter.  Make
  gravy.  Skim off fat.  Measure broth. Add water to make 3 cups.  Pour
  into cooking pan.  Mix 6 tbs. flour with 1/2 c. water to make smooth
  paste, stir into broth.  Return to heat and cook over low heat,
  stirring constantly, until gravy bubbles all over. Cook and stir
  about 5 minutes longer. Serve roast cut in thin slices with gravy, or
  shred meat and mix with gravy to serve on buns. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quiche Peggy
 Categories: Main dish, Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 sl Bacon
     10    Green onions, fine chop.
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
  1 1/2 c  Grated sharp cheddar cheese
      1 c  Half & half
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      1    9" pie shell, part baked
           Dash cayenne pepper
 
     Cook bacon crisp, drain and crumble into bottom of pie chell,
  reserving 2 slices for top.  Sprinkle grated cheese over bacon.
  Saute green onions in bacon drippings, drain and sprinkle over cheese
  (for spicier flavor, do not saute green onion).  Beat eggs, half &
  half, milk, salt, pepper, cayenne pepper and dry mustard together.
  Pour into pie shell.  Crumble reserved bacon, and sprinkle over top.
  Cut in wedges to serve, or for party appetizers, cut into fingers
  (about 16). Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Rice
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lg Onion, chopped
    1/2    Stick butter
      1 lb White rice
      1 cn Tomato juice (46 oz.) OR>>>
      2 cn Regular stewed tomatoes
           Pepper to taste
           Dash of celery salt
      2 sl Ham, chopped (or leftovers)
      1 tb Sugar
      2 ts Salt
           Dash garlic salt (optional)
           Dash Worcestershire sauce
 
     If canned tomatoes are used instead of tomato juice, add cups of
  water as equal to cups of rice in 1 lb. of rice, or just slightly
  less water; say, /1/2 cup less.   Saute onions in butter for 5
  minutes.  Add other ingreds. and mix thoroughly.  Transfer to pot if
  cooking on top of stove , or casserole dish if to be baked in oven.
  Cook 45 minutes to 1 hr. on top of stove or bake at 375 F. on bottom
  rack of oven for 1 hr.  Recover and move to higher rack.  Bake
  another hour. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Beef Diablo
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    5 lb. chuck roast
    1/4 c  Onion, finely chopped
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Chili sauce
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      3 tb Veg. oil
    1/2 c  Beef broth, divided
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      2 tb Prepared mustard
      1 tb Water
    1/4 c  Vinegar
 
     Brown roast on all sides in hot oil in large Dutch oven or roastin
  pan. Pour off all but 1 tb. drippings.  Add oniion, 1/4 c. broth,
  salt and pepper.  Simmer 2 1/2 hrs or until meat is tender.  Combine
  flour, sugar, chili sauce, mustard, worcestershire sauce and vinegar.
  Stir in water and pour over roast.  Simmer abt. 30 min. or until
  tender.  Remove roast and stir in remaining beef broth.  Simmer abt.
  5 min., strain and serve with roast. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Pot Roast
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    4 lb. pot roast
      2    Cloves garlic
           Flour
     12    Whole peppercorns
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 c  Good rum, or dry red wine
      4 tb Butter
           Salt
      1 lg Onion, sliced
     12    Whole allspice
      1 tb Grated horseradish
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Recipe your dumplings
           Small whole carrots OR>>>
           Large carrots, quartered
 
     Use this recipe for either regular meat or venison.  Mash garlic
  and saute in butter.  Salt meat and flour.  Brown well on all sides
  in butter. Lay meat on bed of this sliced onion in lge. Dutch oven.
  Add the butter, spices and seasonings.  Pour rum or wine over meat.
  A good pot roast will supply most of its own juices, but pour the
  water over to make an ample supply of gravy.  Cover tightly and
  simmer 3-4 hrs, either in oven  or on the stove top.  If carrots are
  wanted, add during last 1/2 hr. of cooking. Add dumplings last 12
  minutes.  When roast is done, remove to a hot round platter and
  surround with dumplings and carrots.  Stir gravy until smooth. Pour
  over roast.  If fresh dill is available, cut it over dish with lavish
  hand. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pot Roast with Sour Cream Gravy
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    2-3 lb. pot roast
    1/2 c  Water
      3    Med. carrots cut in 2" pcs.
      1    Carton sour cream (8 oz.)
      2 tb Cooking oil
      3    Med. potatoes, peel, quarter
      3    Med. onions, quartered
      1 tb Flour
 
     Brown roast on all sides in hot oil in lge. roaster or Dutch oven.
  Add water.  Cover and simmer about 2 1/2 to 3 hrs.  Add vegetables.
  Cover and simmer 30 min. or until vegs. are tender.  Remove roast and
  vegs. to serving dish.  Drain off all but 2 tbs. drippings, sift
  flour into drippings.  Make reux, stirring constantly.  Add water to
  drained off drippings to make 1 cup.  Stir into flour and cook,
  stirring constantly, until smooth and slightly thickened.  Add sour
  cream and cook, stirring constantly, on low heat until heated.  Serve
  gravy with roast. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salami
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Hamburger meat
      5 ts Hickory smoked salt
  2 1/2 ts Whole mustard seed
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
  2 1/2 tb Morton's Tender Quick salt>>
           NO SUBSTITUTIONS==
  2 1/2 tb Whole peppercorns
 
     Mix all ingreds. well.  Refrigerate for 24 hrs; mix 5 times during
  the 24 hrs.  Divide into 3 equal parts.  Shape into rolls.  Place on
  broiler rack with drip pan.  Bake at 150F. for 8 hrs.  Will keep 3-4
  weeks in 'fridge, or freeze for longer storage. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Jambalaya
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Sausage or cubed beef
      3 tb Bacon drippings
      3 tb Flour
      2    Med. onions, chopped
      2 ts Salt
      1    Bunch green onions, chopped
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
  2 1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Rice
    3/4 ts Red pepper
 
     Brown meat in bacon drippings, remove and add flour.  Use a heavy
  skillet and brown flour to a dark roux.  Add onions, parsley and
  garlic. Cook until soft, then add water and rice, salt, pepper and
  browned meat. Bring to a boil, lower heat to lowest point and cook
  about 1 hour, covered tightly.  When rice is done, remove lid and let
  cook for a few minutes until rice dries a little.  Makes a bunch!!
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Jambalaya Ii
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Smoked sausage, cut 1/2" pcs
    1/2 c  Chopped green onion
      1 c  Tomatoes ( 28 oz.)
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 lb Ground beef
      1    Med. bell pepper, chopped
      5    Cloves minced garlic
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Raw white rice
 
     Cook sausage in skillet until browned, remove from skillet and
  discard drippings.  Combine beef, green pepper, onion and garlic.
  Cook until beef is browned.  Add tomatoes, salt, pepper and sausage.
  Cover, simmer 20 minutes.  Add rice and water, cover and cook
  additional 25 minutes or until rice is tender. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Sausage Jambalaya
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Links smoked sausage
    1/2    Bell pepper, chopped
  1 1/2 c  Rice
      2 ts Tomato paste
      1    Onion, chopped
      1 cn Mushroom steak sauce
  1 1/2 c  Water
 
     Slice sausage, add small amt. of water, allow to boil and fry
  down. Add onion and bell pepper, fry with sausage.  Add mushroom
  sauce, tomato paste and small amount of water.  Simmer about 1 hour.
  Wash rice, add to mixture along with 1 1/2 c. water.  Cook slowly; do
  not stir too often. Cook until rice is done and filled with flavor.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Sausage
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Ground pork shoulder
      5 lb Ground raw potatoes
      4 tb Salt
      1 tb Garlic salt
      5 lb Ground round
      3 lg Onions, ground or fine chop
      2 tb Black pepper
 
     Combine ingreds. and mix well.  Stuff in casings.  Makes about 17
  lb. Freeze in 1 or 2 lb. pkgs.  When ready to cook, place sausage in
  skillet in water to cover.  Cook slowly until water is all cooked
  down and sausage browns in its own juice.  Takes about 1 hr. Serves a
  whole bunch. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Sauerbraten
 Categories: Main dish, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Beef gravy (10 3/4 oz.)
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
      3 tb Sugar
     10    Whole cloves
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Gingersnaps, crushed fine
      8 sl Cooked pot roast (thin sl.)
 
     Combine gravy, water, vinegar, gingersnaps, sugar and cloves in
  large skillet.  Bring to boil, stirring.  Simmer and stir abt. 5 min.
  or until thickened and smooth.  Add beef slices.  Cook until meat is
  hot, basting with sauce.  Serve with mashed potatoes.
  
  C.C.--Lake Charles, La. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Sausage
 Categories: Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
    1/4 ts Coarse pepper
      2 tb Curing salt (kosher salt)
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
      1 tb Liquid smoke
    1/4 ts Mustard seed
    1/4 ts Onion salt
 
     Mix all ingreds. well.  Form into 2 rolls and wrap tightly in foil.
  Referigerate 24 hrs.  Bake over broiler pan with water at 350 F. for
  1 1/2 hrs.  Remove from foil after baking.  Good served hot or cold.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Short Cut Supper
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Hamburger
      1 pk Shell macaroni
           Onions, sliced
      1 cn Tomato sauce, 8 oz.
 
     Cook macaroni in water until done, drain.  Fry hamburger and onions
  until done.  Add ingreds. together and heat. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Quiche
 Categories: Main dish, Pie/tart, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Butter
           Dash salt & pepper
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Chopped ham
      1    Pie shell, 9" unbaked
      3 tb Onion
      3 tb Flour
      1 c  Half & half
      1 pk Creamed spinach
      1 c  Swiss cheese, grated
 
     Pat parmesan cheese on bottom of shell.  Melt butter and add to
  remaining ingreds.   Mix well and pour into pastry shell.  Bake at
  375 F. about 25-35 min., or until knife inserted comes out clean.
  Serve hot.
  
  A.O.--New Iberia, La. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Top of Stove Spareribs
 Categories: Main dish, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Spareribs or pork chops
    3/4 c  Water
      2 tb Vinegar
      2    Onions, sliced
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    3/4 c  Catsup
      2 tb Brn. sugar, packed
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Oil
 
     Season meat, brown in oil.  Add sliced onions.  Mix other ingreds.
  Cover and let simmer abt. 3 hrs, or until tender. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Squirrel Sauce Piquante
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Game
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Squirrels
    1/2 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
           Cooking oil
      3    Med. onions, chopped
      1 tb Flour
           Water
           Black & red pepper, salt
 
     Rub squirrels with salt, black and red pepper.  Put oil in heavy
  iron pot 1/4" deep.  Brown squirrels on all sides and remove from
  pot.  Lower fire to med. heat and saute onions, bell peepper and
  flour in remaining oil until brown.  Place squirrels back in pot, add
  enough water to cover meat. Add tomato sauce.  Cover and simmer on
  low fire 1 1/2 to 2 hrs., or until tender. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2    Small onion, sliced
      2    Chicken breasts
      1 tb Oil
      2 ts Lemon juice
           Salt & pepper
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 c  Apple juice
    1/2 c  Water
           Flour
 
     Saute onion in oil.  Salt, pepper and flour chicken, add to oonion
  and brown quickly.  Add cumin and stir.  Add water and juices.
  Cover, reduce heat and simmer 30 minutes.  Serve with some of the
  sauce and onion over chicken.  Recipe may be doubled (4 breasts), but
  use only HALF again the sauce ingredients. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken a la King
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Oleo, melted
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Minced onion
      1    Cooked fryer--boned
      1 cn Cream mushroom soup
    2/3 c  Flour
      2 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Bell pepper, diced
      2    Pimentos, diced
           Fresh mushrooms, sliced
 
     Add flour to melted oleo and stir over low heat.  Add broth and
  milk all at once.  Cook and stir until thickened.  Add remaining
  ingredients, and heat.  Serve on toast, rice or in patty shells.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Baked Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Fryer, cut up
    1/2 c  Italian cheese
      2    Eggs, well beaten
      1 c  Italian bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           Butter or oleo
 
     Combine bread crumbs and cheese in 1 bow.  Combine eggas and olive
  oil in another bowl.  Dip chicken pcs. in egg mixture, lift quickly
  to coat with crumb and cheese mixture.  Arrange chicken in lightly
  greased pan and dot each pc. with butter.  Bake at 375 F., for abt. 1
  hr., or until tests done.  Stuffed artichoke lovers will love this
  dish; tastes like it. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Onion Baked Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Fryer, cut up (3 lb.)
    1/2    Stick oleo, melted
      1 cn Chicken mushroom soup
      1 cn Drained whole onions (2 c.)
    1/2    Soup can of water
    1/2 c  Flour
    2/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 c  Grated American cheese
    1/4 lb Sliced mushrooms
           Dash paprika
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Lightly salt and pepper chicken.  Lightly coat with flour.  Arrange
  chicken pcs. in single layer with skins down in melted oleo in 13 x 9
  x 2" baking pan.  Bake uncovered in 425 F. oven for 30 minutes.  Turn
  chicken over and continue to bake for abt. 15 to 20 min. longer.
  Remove from oven. Drain. Combine remaining ingreds., except paprika
  and bring to light boil. Pour over chicken.  Sprinkle with paprika
  and cover with foil. Return to oven and bake 15 to 20 min.  Serve
  with rice. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tavern Style Baked Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Fryer, cut up, 3-5 lb.
      1 ts Salt
      2 cn Mushrooms (3 oz.)
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  American cheese
      1    Med. onion
           Water
      1 c  Evap. milk
    1/2 c  Flour
           Pepper to taste
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Trumeric
      3 c  Cooked rice
 
     Cook chicken with onion and 1 ts. salt in water.  Remove chicken
  when tender, debone and sliver.  Save broth.  Measure mushroom
  liquid.  Add enough chicken broth to make 3 cups in all.  Add milk,
  set aside.  Melt butter, blend flour, 1 ts. salt, pepper and
  turmeric, add to butter.  Add broth mixture.  Cook over low heat,
  stiring constantly until thickened. Add oregano and 1/4 cup cheese.
  Stir until cheese melts.  Add mushrooms. Spread rice in bottom of
  greased shallow casserole.  Top with clivered chicken.  Pour sauce
  over all.  Sprinkle with remaining cheese.  Bake at 350 F. for 30
  min. or until brown. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR
  38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Au Papillote
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 cn Evaporated milk
      1 pk Onion soup mix
      4    Pcs. chicken, or more
      1 c  Rice
      2 c  Water
      1 tb Paprika
 
     Cook rice as usual.  Place in double layer of foil.  Pour
  evaporated milk over it and sprinkle dried onion soup over that.
  Place chicken on top.  Prepeat with rice, milk and soup.   Season.
  Wrap tightly and bake at 350 F. for abt. 1 hr.  Eat!!  Enjoy!!
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Russian Style Barbecued Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Fryer
    1/2 pk Onion soup mix
    1/2 c  Water
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1    Jar apricot preserves (8oz.)
    1/2    Bottle Russian dressing
 
     Cut fryer into quarters.  Spread in Corning Ware dish.  Salt and
  pepper to taste.  Sprinkle onion soup mix over chicken.  Dab the
  apricot preserves over the chicken by Spoonsful.  Cover with Russian
  dressing and pour water over top.  Cover and bake for 2 hrs. at 300
  F. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Beer Bake
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Chicken breasts, halved
           Salt & pepper to taste
      3 ts Soy sauce
      1 cn Sliced mushrooms, drained
      4 tb Flour (or more)
           Cooking oil
      2 cn Cream chicken soup
      3 tb Slivered almonds
    1/2 cn Beer
 
     Coat chicken with four, season with salt and pepper and brown
  lightly in oil on both sides.  Place browned chicken breasts in Dutch
  oven or casserole.  Mix together soup, soy sauce, 2 tb. almonds,
  mushrooms and beer.  Pour over chicken.  Bake in preheated 350 F.
  oven uncovered for 1 hr.  Sprinkle remaining tbs. of almonds over
  chicken when ready to serve. To complete your meal, serve fried rice
  and juicy cling peaches warmed in the oven. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Chicken Creole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      2 tb Flour
  2 1/4 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 ts Sugar
           Black pepper to taste
      1    Med. Bell pepper, diced
      3 tb Oil
      1 cn Tomato paste ( 6 oz.)
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce (or to taste)
      2 c  Cooked, cubed, chicken
 
     Saute onion, green pepper and garlic in oil until tneder, stirring
  occasionally. Add flour, stir just until flour starts to brown.  Stir
  in tomato paste, broth, salt, sugar and Tabasco sauce.  Cook and stir
  until mixture comes to boil and thickenes.  Stir in chicken and black
  pepper. Simmer uncovered 5 minutes or until chicken in heated
  through.  Serve over hot cooked rice.
  
  M.C.--Metairie, La. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR
  38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Chicken & Dumplings
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Chicken breasts OR>>
           Chicken pcs. of your choice.
           Few drops yellow food color
      1    Stick oleo
      1 cn Chicken broth
           Salt & pepper to taste
     20 sm Flour tortillas
 
     Put chicken in large pot filled about 3/4 full of water.  Cook
  until tender.  Remove chicken and debone, or if you prefer, may leave
  chicken without deboning.  Add remaining ingrredients, except
  tortillas, back in boiling broth water.  Take shears and cut FLOUR
  tortillas in strips and drop in boiling broth (do not use corn
  tortillas).  Cook about 20 minutes or so until done.  These dumplings
  look and taste as good as regular dumplings.  This makes a large
  quantity, so can be halved if you desire. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Enchiladas Cajun Style
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Chicken breasts OR>>
      1    Fryer, cooked,cut bite size
      1 cn Mushroom soup
           Chili peppers to taste>>>
           Seeded and chopped
      1 cn Tomato soup
      1 cn Cream chicken soup
      1 cn Chicken broth
      1 pk Corn tortillas (12 in pkg.)
           Brick or American cheese>>>>
           Grated.
 
     Combine all ingredients, except cheese.  Mix and place half in
  casserole.  Cover with cheese.  Repeat layers.  Bake 1 hr. at 350 F .
  This freezes well and enough to  make 2 casseroles. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Enchiladas Ii
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Cooked chicken breasts>>>
           Cut in bite size pcs.
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
     12    Corn tortillas, torn small
      2 cn Cream chicken soup
      1 cn Pet milk
      1 cn Green chili peppers, seeded>
           Chopped.
      8 oz Swiss cheese, grated
 
     Combine and mix chicken, soup, milk, onion and chili peppers.  In
  casserole dish, place a layer of tortillas, layer of chicken mixture
  and layer of cheese.  Repeat layers, ending with cheese on top.  Bake
  at 350 f. until hot and cheese is melted. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Fricassee
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Fryer, cut up
      5 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Parsley, chopped
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      3 tb Salad oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      3 c  Hot water
      1    Bay leaf, crumbled
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Salt and pepper the chicken.  Brown slowly in oil over med. heat.
  Remove pcs. of chicken when browned, stir in flour until smooth.
  Cook abt. 15 min., stirring constantly until a rich brown roux.
  Lower heat, add onion and celery.  Cover and simmer about 10 minutes.
  Stir often. Gradually stir in water.  Add parsley, bay leaf, thyme,
  chicken pcs., salt and pepper to taste.  Cover and simmer about 40
  min. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Paprikas
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Stewing hen, cut up
      1    Onion, chopped
      1 tb Paprika
      2 tb Salt
  1 1/2 c  Water
      4 tb Shortening
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 pt Sour cream

MMMMM-------------------------DUMPLINGS------------------------------
      3    Eggs, beaten
      1 tb Salt
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Water
 
     Brown onion in shortening, add seasoning and chicken, brown 10
  minutes. Add water, cover and let simmer slowly until tender.  Remove
  chicken, add sour cream to drippings in pan and mix well.  Add
  dumblings, arrange chicken on top.  Heat through and serve.
  
    (TO MAKE DUMPLINGS):  Mix all ingredients together and beat with a
  spoon.
   Drop batter by teaspoonsful into boiling salted water.  Cook about 10
  minutes, drain, rinse with cold water.  Drain well, add to paprikas.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauce Piquante
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Hen (4-5 lb.)
      1 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Chopped bell pepper
      1 cn Tomato paste (small)
      1 ts Sugar
      5 c  Water
      2 cn Crabmeat
      3 cn Shrimp, drained
      2 c  Chopped onion
      4    Cloves garlic, fine chop
      1 cn Ro-Tel tomatoes
           Salt & red pepper to taste
      1 sm Can mushrooms (optional)
           Chopped green onion tops and
           Parsely
 
     Saute chicken until meat comes off the bone, remove from pot and
  debone. Add onion, celery 4 cloves garlic and bell pepper to
  drippings in pot and saute in chicken fat until clear.  Add deboned
  chicken, tomatoes, tomato paste, salt, red pepper and sugar; simmer
  5-10 minutes.  Add onion tops, parsley and mushrooms..  Add water;
  more water may be necessary, add according to desired thickness.
  Cook, slow heat, for 3 to 4 hrs. Approximately 20 minutes before
  serving, add crabmeat and shrimp.  Season to taste, and serve over
  rice. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauce Piquante, Ii
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      5 lb Chicken, rabbit or shrimp
      1 lg Can whole tomatoes
      1 cn Tomato paste (8 oz.)
      2 c  Celery, chopped
      1 cn Mushroom stems & pcs.
    1/2 c  Green onions, chopped
    1/2 c  Parsley chopped
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Tabasco sauce to taste
      1 c  Cooking oil
      1 lg Can tomato juice (46 oz.)
      2 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
      2 c  Chopped onions
      4    Cloves garlic, fine chop
      7 c  Water
      1 ts Sugar
      1 c  Chopped bell pepper
 
     Cook meat in oil over low fire until tender and done.  Remove meat
  and set aside.  Add onions, celery and bell peppers to oil.  Cook
  slowly until wilted.  Add tomato juice, whole tomatoes, tomato sauce,
  tomato paste and 5 cups water.  Cook over med. fire until oil floats
  above tomatoes.  Add meat, mushrooms, sugar and garlic.  Season to
  taste with salt, black pepper and Tabasco sauce, leaning heavily on
  Tabasco sauce to give "zip". Add remaining 2 cups water.  Cook abt.
  1/2 hr. on med. fire until well done. Add parsely and onion tops a
  few minutes before sauce is done. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crabmeat Au Gratin 1
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Cheese/eggs, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Stalk celery, chopped fine
      1 c  Onion, chopped fine
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 lb White or lump crabmeat
    1/2    Stick butter
    1/2 sm Bell pepper, chopped fine
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2    Egg yolks, beaten
    1/2 ts Red pepper
    1/4 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
 
     Saute vegetables in butter until well done, but not brown.  Blend
  flour well into mixture.  Pour in milk gradually and stirring
  constantly.  Add egg yolk, salt, red and black peppers and cook for 5
  minutes.  Add crabmeat to sauce, blend well and transfer into a
  lightly greased casserole dish. Sprinkle top with cheese and bake in
  375 F. oven for 15 or 20 minutes or until light brown. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crabmeat Au Gratin 2
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Cheese/eggs, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Crabmeat
      1    Stalk celery, chopped
      2    Green onions, chopped
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
    1/2 c  White wine
      8 tb Butter
      2    Onions, chopped
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 cn Mushroom pieces
      1 c  American cheese, grated
 
     Saute onion and celery in butter until soft.  Add crabmeat, soup
  and mushrooms.  Blend well, add remaining ingredients.  Mix and pour
  into casserole dish.  Bake at 350  F. until hot and bubbly. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab and Shrimp Au Gratin
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Process cheese spread
      1 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Tabasco sauce (or more)
    1/4 lb Crabmeat
    1/2 lb Cooked shrimp
           Hot cooked rice
 
     Combine flour, salt, pepper and 1 cup milk.  Stir until smooth.
  Combine cheese spread and remaining milk in top of double boiler,
  cook over hot water until cheese melts.  Add flour mixture and hot
  sauce to cheese mixture, stir until smooth.  Add shrimp and crabmeat.
  Pour into a greased 1 1/2 qt. casserole dish and top with shredded
  cheese.  Bake at 350 F. for 20 minutes.  Serve over hot cooked rice.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Stuffing
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Crabmeat, fresh or frozen
    1/3 c  Chopped celery
    1/3 c  Melted fat
      2 c  Bread crumbs
      3    Eggs, beaten
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/3 c  Chopped green pepper
      2    Cloves garlic, fine chop
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      2 ts Salt
 
     Drain crabmeat.  Cook onion, celery, green pepper and garlic in fat
  until tender.  Combine bread cubes, eggs, parsley, salt, pepper,
  cooked vegs. and crabmeat.  Mix well.  Fill crab shells with mixture,
  bake at 350 F. for about 30 minutes.  This can be used as a casserole
  also. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38
  A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crawfish Etouffee
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Crawfish tails
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Chopped onions
      2 tb Crawfish fat (or more)
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
    1/4 lb Oleo
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      4    Cloves garlic, chopped fine
      2 c  Cold water
    1/4 c  Chopped green onion tops
           Salt, red & black pepper
 
     Season crawfish and set aside.  Melt oleo, add seasoning, stirring
  constantly.  Add crawfish and 1 1/2 cups water.  Bring to boil, lower
  heat and cook slowly 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.  Dissolve
  cornstarch in remaining 1/2 c. water.  Add to mixture.  Add onion
  tops and parsley. Cook for additional 10 minutes. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crawfish Jambalaya
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Crawfish tails
  1 1/4 c  Long grain rice (raw)
      1 tb Flour
      2 tb Salad oil
      1 c  Onion, chopped fine
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley (2ts.flakes)
    1/2 c  Chopped green onion tops
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
    1/2 c  Chopped bell pepper
    1/4 c  Crawfish fat
  1 1/2 c  Water
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Red pepper, or to taste
 
     Brown flour in oil to a golden brown.  Add onions. Stir constantly
  until onions are almost cooked.  Add 1 1/2 cups cold water and simmer
  for 1/2 hr. Add crawfish tails and fat.  Cook until crawfish turns
  pink.  Add abt. 2 cups of water and bring to a boil.  When water is
  rapidly boiling, add remainder of ingredients.  Stir to blend and
  cook on low heat covered for abt. 1/2 hr. or until rice is tender.
  Five minutes before serving, use a 2 prong fork and fluff up
  jambalaya so that rice will have a tendency to fall apart. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Catfish Barrios
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Fresh mushrooms
      1 sm Onion
      4    Stalks celery
      1    Block butter
      2 lb Catfish
           Salt, Pepper, Parsley flakes
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  White cooking wine
 
     Slice mushrooms, onions and celery paper thin.  Place butter in
  deep frying pan and melt.  Add mushrooms, onions and celery.  Cook on
  low fire until tender.  Add flour and wine to make gravy.  Add salt
  and pepper to taste.  When gravy begins to bubbble, add fish which
  has been salted and peppered.  Cook until fish is firm.  Serve with
  fresh hot French bread and ice cold beer. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Stuffed Flounder
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
      1    Clove minced garlic
      1    Stick butter
    1/2 lb Boiled, chopped, shrimp
    1/2 lb Crabmeat
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
    1/2 c  Chopped green onions
      1 c  Progresso bread crumbs
      2 tb Chopped parsley
           Salt,pepper,red pepper
 
     Saute celery, onions and garlic in 1/2 stick melted butter.  Add
  bread crumbs, shrimp, crabmeat and parsley.  Mix well.  Season to
  taste with salt, pepper and cayenne.  Split thick side of each
  flounder, lentthwise and crosswise, and loosen meat from bone of fish
  to form a pocket for stuffing.  Brush well with additional melted
  buttter, salt and pepper. Stuff pocket with dressing.  Melt remaining
  1/2 stick butter in shallow baking pan.  Place fish in pan.  Cover
  and bake at 375 F. for abt. 30 minutes.  Remove cover and bake
  additional 5 minutes. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Fritters
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Clam/oyster
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1 c  Pancake mix
      1 pt Oysters & juice
      2 tb Onion, finely chopped
      1 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
 
     Combine pancake mix, oysters, onion, baking powder, egg, salt and
  pepper.  Drop by tablespoonsful into hot oil.  Brown on both sides.
  Drain on paper towels. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Patties 1
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Clam/oyster
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1    Stick butter or oleo
      8    Cloves garlic, chopped
      3 tb Flour (or more)
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 lg Onion, chopped
    3/4    Bunch parsley, chopped
      2    Bunches green onions chopped
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Dozen medium patty shells
      5    Dozen oysters
 
     Saute onions, greeen onions, garlic in butter until golden brown.
  Add flour and brown.  Chop oysters; reserve liquid.  Add oysters,
  parsley and oregano, simmer 15 to 20 minutes.  Add salt and pepper.
  If mixture is too thick, add oyster water for desired consistency.
  If mixture is too thin, thicken with a little flour and water.  Fill
  patty shells and bake 325 F. about 15 minutes. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Patties 2
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Clam/oyster
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 sm Bunch green onions,chop fine
      2 tb Parsley, finely chopped
      1 sm Onion, grated or fine chop
     48    Small patty shells
      2 tb Butter or oleo
      1 cn Cream mushroom soup
      1 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Lemon juice
           Black & red pepper as needed
     48    Oysters--cut in half if sm.>
           Diced if large.
 
     Saute green onions in oleo until tender.  Blend in flour until
  smooth. Add onions, mushroom soup, black and red pepper, parsley,
  oysters and lemon juice.  Simmer 10 minutes.  Spoon into patty
  shells.  When ready to serve, bake at 250 - 300 F. for 15 minutes.
  These freeze well and can be frozen on cookie sheet; then place in
  plastic bag for easy storage
  
  Yield:  4 dozen Oyster Patties Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Pie
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Pie/tart, Clam/oyster
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Doz. oysters with liquor
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1    Bunch green onions,fine chop
      2 tb Chopped celery
      1 ts Cayenne pepper (or to taste)
      1 c  Cooked, chopped chicken>>>>
           Leftovers are best.
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    9" double crust pie shell
 
     Make roux of flour and oil until dark brown.  Add green onions,
  saute 3 min. only, stirring constantly.  All at once, add oysters,
  oyster liquid and the chopped chicken (or turkey).  Bring to medium
  boil, cook until ingreds. thicken heavily, about 15 minutes.  Add
  salt and pepper to taste. Pour into bottom crust and cover with top
  crust.  Slit top crust to prevent blistering, and brush with milk or
  1 egg beaten with 1 tbs. of water. Bake at 425 F. until crust is
  golden brown.  Serve hot or at room temperature. Most people prefer
  room temperature.
     A young, white burgundy, such as Pouilly-Fousse, goes well with
  this dish. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Cakes
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Salmon
      2 c  Soft bread crumbs
      2    Well beaten eggs.
      1 tb Chopped onion
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      2 tb Butter
           Salt & pepper to taste
      2 ts Baking powder
 
     Mix thoroughly.  Chill.  Shape and fry in deep fat.  365 F.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Escalloped Salmon
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Salmon (1 lb.)
      1 c  Bread or cracker crumbs
           Salt & pepper to taste
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
  2 1/2 c  Milk
 
     Drain salmon; reserve juice.  Melt butter, add flour, stirring
  until smooth.  Add milk, stir until thickened, add salmon liquor.
  Season to taste.  Flake salmon, add to sauce and place in greased
  bakin dish. Sprinkle with bread crumbs.  Bake at 350 F. for abt. 20
  minutes. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR
  38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Loaf
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Pink salmon (16 0z.)
      1 tb Chopped onion (fine)
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Chopped parsley (fine)
      1    Egg
      1 c  Bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
 
     Drain liquid from salmon and reserve.  Remove large bones and skin.
  Break up salmon with fork, add remaining ingredients, using enough of
  salmon liquid and milk to moisten.  Shape into well greased baking
  dish and bake about 30 minutes at 375 F.  One pound of ground meat
  may be substituted for salmon and baked about 1 hour. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Au Gratin 1
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Cheese/eggs, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Cooked, cleaned shrimp
    2/3 c  American cheese, grated
      1 c  Thick white sauce
      1 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Buttered bread crumbs
 
    Alternate layers of shrimp, white sauce and 1/2 of the cheese in
  greased deep baking dish.  Sprinkle top with remaining cheese and
  parsley, then with buttered crubms.  Bake at 400 F. for 20 minutes or
  until crumbs are brown. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Au Gratin 2
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Cheese/eggs, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Shrimp
      1 c  Thin white sauce
    1/2 c  Buttered bread crumbs
    2/3 c  American cheese, grated
      1 tb Parsley, finely chopped
 
     Alternate layers of cleaned, cooked shrimp, white sauce and 1/2
  cup of the cheese in greased baking dish.  Sprinkle with parsley and
  remaining cheese.  Sprinkle buttered crumbs over top.  Bake at 400 F.
  for 20 minutes or until crumbs are brown. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Au Gratin 3
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Cheese/eggs, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter or oleo
      1 c  Milk
           Dash of Tabasco sauce
      1 c  Sharp cheese, grated
           Buttered bread crumbss
      3 tb Flour
      1 ts Lea & Perrins sauce
      1    Green onion, chopped fine
      2 c  Shrimp, cleaned, boiled
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Make white sauce of butter, flour and milk.  Add seasonings,
  cheese and shrimp.  Place in casserole or ramekins.  Cover with
  buttered bread crumbs. Bake at 325 F. about 30 minutes or until hot
  and bubbly. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Canlis Shrimp
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Appetizer, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Large shrimp, shelled
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Olive oil
    1/4 ts Fresh groun pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 oz Dry vermouth
           Juice of 2 lemons
      1    Small garlic clove, crushed
 
     Into large skillet, place olive oil.  When simmering, add shrimp;
  allow to cook until golden brown.  Reduce heat; add butter, salt
  pepper.   When you think you have too much salt, add more.  This is
  one dish you cannot oversalt.  When well blended, raise heat to very
  hot.  Add lemon juice and dry vermouth and cook for about 1 minute,
  constantly stirring. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Crab Rolls
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chopped raw shrimp
    3/4 c  Crabmeat, cooked
      1    Egg
      2 sl Dry bread
        ds Cayenne pepper or to taste
    1/4 c  Celery, chopped
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Salt & Pepper to taste
 
     Mix all ingredients together.  Pick up small handful and squeeze
  into 2 1/2" roll.  Mix about 1 cup corn meal with 1/2 cup pancake
  mix.  Coat shrimp patty in corn meal and fry in deep fat. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp and Crab Spaghetti
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Peeled shrimp
      2    Med. onions, chopped
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Tomato paste
      1 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Stick butter
     12    Crabs, cooked or raw
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      2 cn Tomato sauce (8 oz.)
      1 tb Chili powder
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 pk Spaghetti
 
    Brown onions and garlic in hot oil.  Add remaining ingredients,
  except shrimp, crabs and spaghetti.  Bring to boil and simmer 30
  minutes, stirring constantly.  Remove outer shell and legs from
  crabs, leaving meat in bottom part; break in half.   Add shrimp and
  crabs to sauce, simmer additional 30 minutes.  Add uncooked spaghetti
  to sauce, stir constantly until done and pour sauce over cooked
  spaghetti. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bayou Shrimp Creole
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 c  Salad oil
      1    Stalk celery, diced
      5 c  Onions, sliced
      1 c  Chili sauce
      1 ts Curry powder
      3    Lge. bay leaf
      2 pk Frozen sliced okra
      2 cn Tomatoes (#303)
      3 lg Green peppers, sliced
      1    Stalk celery leaves, chopped
      1 ts Thyme
           Salt, red & black pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
      5 lb Shrimp, cleaned & deveined
 
     Heat oil in lge. frying pan.  Add green peppers, celery, celery
  leaves and onions.  Cook over low heat, stirring until vegetables are
  eslightly softened.  Add remaining ingredients except shrimp.  Cover
  and simmer for 1 hour, stirring occasionally.  Refrigerate for 24
  hours.  Add shrimp 1 hour before serving; heat thoroughly.  Serve
  over hot cooked rice. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Skillet Shrimp Creole
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn Whole tomatoes (1 lb.)
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/4 c  Green peppers, diced
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
      3 tb Butter
    3/4 lb Shrimp, cleaned-split
      1 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Sprig parsley
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
  1 1/3 c  Minute Rice
 
     Drain tomatoes, measuring liquid.  Add water to liquid to make 1
  1/3 cups.  Saute celery, green pepper and onion in butter until
  lightly browned.  Add shrimp, cook until shrimp turns pink.  Add
  liquid, tomatoes, sugar, salt, pepper, bay leaf, parsley,
  Worcestershire sauce.  Cover and let simmer 3 minutes.  Stir in
  Minute Rice.  Cover and simmen an additional 5 minutes.  Remove bay
  leaf and parsley before serving. Sprinkle with fine chopped parsley
  as garnish. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Shrimp Etouffee
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp, cleaned-deveined
      1 sm Can tomatoes
      4    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Butter or oleo
    1/2 c  Finely chopped parsley
      1 tb All-purpose flour
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Blend tomatoes including liquid until fine.  In skillet, make roux
  of flour and butter.  Add garlic and continue browning until tender.
  Add tomatoes, shrimp, salt and pepper.  Simmer for 15 to 20 min.  Add
  chopped parsley before removing from heat.  Serve over hot fluffy
  rice. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38
  A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Seasoned Shrimp
 Categories: Main dish, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Lge. raw, unpeeled shrimp
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Rosemary
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2    Bay leaves, crumbled
    1/2    Lemon, squeezed
      3    Cloves garlic, sliced
      1 ts Accent
      2 lg Bell peppers, quartered
           Salt to taste
           Lots of black pepper
      2    Sticks melted butter
           Dash of Tabasco sauce
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/8 ts Crushed red pepper (or more)
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Sugar
      2 lg Onions, quartered
      2    Ribs celery, cut into chunks
 
     Melt butter in saucepan and remove from heat.  Combine all
  ingredients, except shrimp and black pepper.  Pour sauce mixture into
  shallow baking pan.  Place shrimp over sauce and cover with black
  pepper.  Mix well and refrigerate for several hours or overnight.
  Stir occasionally to allow shrimp to be well coated with marinade.
  Preheat over to 425 F. and cook shrimp uncovered for abt. 25 minutes
  or until shells are soosened around shrimp.  Stir twice while
  cooking, remove from oven and serve with hot French bread and cold
  beer. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Shrimp
 Categories: Appetizer, Salad, Main dish, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      5 qt Water
      1    Stalk celery cut 1" slices
      2 ts Pepper, divided
      1 tb Salt
      1 lg Onion--separate into rings
           Lettuce leaves
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Apple cider vinegar
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Paprika
      1    Bottle salad oil (38 oz.)
      5 lb Jumbo shrimp, unpeeled
 
     Combine water, celery, onion, lemon juice and 1/2 ts. pepper in
  Dutch oven; bring to boil.  Add shrimp and return to boil. Cook for 5
  minutes; drain shrimp and cool.  Shell and devein shrimp.  Combine
  shrimp and remaining ingredients, except lettuce, in airtight plastic
  container. Refrigerate 1 week, shaking container twice each day.
  Drain shrimp, discarding marinade.  Serve shrimp and onion rings in
  lettuce lined bowl.0 Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dirty Rice with Shrimp
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Cajun/creol, Crab/shrimp
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Raw rice, long grain
    1/8 c  Shortening
      1    Bunch green onions,fine chop
      1 lb Shrimp, chopped
           Butter
      1 lb Red onions, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped fine
    1/4    Pod red pepper, chopped
   3/16    Bunch parsley, chopped fine
           Water
 
     Cook rice until almost done.  Saute onions in shortening, add
  shrimp and cook until brown.  Add garlic, green onions, parsley,
  salt, red pepper and water.  Pour over rice.  When water is absorbed,
  place in large baking dish and dot with butter.  Brown at 350 F.
  about 15 minutes.
  
  Recipe makes a bunch!! Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Red Snapper Italian Style
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Red Snapper or Bass
      1    Clove garlic, chopped fine
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Italian cheese
      1 sm Can tomatoes
  1 1/2 c  Bread crumbs (Progresso)
    1/4 c  Grated cheese (Romano, etc.)
           Mint leaves
      1 tb Oil
           Onion slices
      3    Lemon slices
 
     Mix bread crumbs, grated cheese and 3 finely chopped mint leaves
  (optional); stuff fish, close and fasten with toothpick(s).  Grease
  baking pan with tablespoon of oil and place fish it it, slit fish on
  upturned side and in each slit, place 1 small pc. cheese, 1 small
  slice on onion and 1 mint leaf.  Pour tomatoes over fish and arrange
  3 thin slices of lemon on top.  Bake at 350 F. for 1 hr., basting
  regularly.  Cover during last 15 minutes of cooking. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout Amandine
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Fillets of trout
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Milk
           Salt & pepper
    1/2 c  Almonds, chopped
 
     Dip trout in milk.  Season with salt & pepper, roll in flour.  Cook
  trout in butter until evenly browned on both sides.  Remove fish and
  saute shopped almonds in drippings.  Sprinkle over fish. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Au Gratin
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Tuna (9 oz.)
    1/2 c  Cottage cheese
      5 sl Bread, cubed
      2 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
      1 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
      2 tb Melted butter
 
     Preheat oven to 350 F.  Combine tuna cottage cheese and half the
  bread crumbs.  Spread tuna mixture in bottom of casserole.  In
  saucepan, combine butter, flour and paprika to a smooth paste.
  Gradually heat and add milk, stirring until thick.  Add cheese, stir
  until melted.  Pour sauce over tuna.  Top with remaining bread
  crumbs.  Pour melted butter over bread crumbs.  Bake 25 to 30 minutes
  at 350 F. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Tuna Stuffed Potatoes
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 lg Baking potatoes
      2 tb Oleo
      2 cn Tuna (7 oz.), drained
      1 tb Onion, grated
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      1 cn Cheddar cheese soup
    1/4 ts Paprika
      2    Drops (or more)Tabasco sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 sl American cheese, halved
 
     Wash potatoes and rub skins all over with oleo.  Prick with fork.
  Bake on oven rack in preheated 400 F. oven for 1 1/2 hrs. or until
  tender. Combine tuna, onion, parsley, soup, paprika, Tabasco sauce
  and salt.  Toss with fork to break up tuna and blend well.  Remove 1"
  slice from top of each potato.  Scoop out inside of potatoes, leaving
  shell.  Add potatoes to tuna mixture, tossing to mix well. Spoon
  lightly into potato shells, mounding high.  Top each with 1/2 slice
  of cheese.  Return to oven until cheese melts.  Serves 8. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Wiggle
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Carnation milk
      1 lg Can tuna
      1    Can water (milk can)
      1 cn Peas (#303)
     10 oz Whole milk
 
     Mix ingredients and heat over low flame until hot.  Thicken to
  desired consistency with flour and water paste.  Serve over egg
  noodles or saltine crackers. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding
  *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maque Choux
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Ears corn
      1    Med. onion, finely chopped
    1/2    Green pepper, finely chopped
    1/4 ts Sugar (or more)
      2 tb Butter or oleo, melted
      2 tb Tomatoes & green chiles
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Cut corn from cob, scraping cob to remove pulp.  Combine corn and
  remaining ingredients in heavy saucepan.  Cook over low heat 20-30
  minutes or until corn is tender, stir frequently. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Souffle
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn Cream style corn
      1 c  Cornbread mix
      2 ts Garlic salt
           Grated cheese
      4    Eggs, beaten
      1 c  Wesson oil
      1 sm Jar pimentos
 
     Combine and mix corn, eggs, oil, garlic salt, pimentos, corn bread
  mix. Pour into casserole; bake at 325 F. for 45-50 minutes.  Sprinkle
  grated cheese over casserole just before corn gets done. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Choux Glorieux (Glorious Cabbage)
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Med. head cabbage
      1    Onion, chopped
    1/2 lb American cheese
           Salt & red pepper to taste
    3/4    Stick butter
      1 cn Mushroom soup
           Bread crumbs
 
     Boil cabbage and cut into small pcs.  Wilt onion in butter over low
  flame.  Add soup and stir; add cheese, stir until melted.  Put in
  cabbage, salt, pepper and enough bread crumbs until it becomes
  correct consistency for casserole.  Place in casserole dish and bake
  in 350 F. over until hot and bubbly. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Candied Carrots
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Fresh carrots
    1/2 c  Mrs. Butterworth's syrup
      2 tb Oleo
           Boiling water
 
     Wash, peel and cut carrots diagonally into 1 inch slices.  Place in
  2-quart saucepan.  Add boiling water to measure 1 inch.  Cover and
  simmer 20 minutes until tender, drain. Add oleo and toss until
  carrots are well coated.  Add syrup, heat and roll carrots in syrup
  until evenly glazed. Cook over med. heat until well glazed.  Watch
  carefully to prevent scorching. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans in Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Vegetable, Tomato
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Onion, chopped fine
      1 sm Can tomato sauce
      4 sl Bacon
      2 cn #303 cut green beans
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
     Cut bacon into 1/2" strips, fry until almost crisp, drain, leaving
  just enough to saute onion until almost clear, while bacon finishes
  cooking. Add beans, tomato sauce, salt, pepper, and enough bean
  liquid to just cover beans.  Cover and cook 1/2 hr.  Remove cover and
  simmer until sauce becomes thick.
  
  Note:  More or less of each ingredient may be used to suit the
  individual's taste. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR
  38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet & Sour Green Beans
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 sl Bacon
      1 cn Water chestnuts, sliced
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Brn. sugar, packed
      1 sm Onion, sliced
      1 lb Can,French style green beans
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Vinegar
      3 tb Chopped pimento
 
     In a skillet, fry bacon until crisp.  Remove, drain and crumble.
  Add onion and chestnuts to bacon drippings and saute until onion is
  golden, stirring frequently.  Drain beans, reserving 1/2 c. liquid.
  Combine bean liquid, cornstarch, salt, mustasrd, brown sugar,
  vinegar.  Add to skillet. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture
  thickens.  Add green beans and pimento, heat through.  Serve
  garnished with crumbled bacon. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Orange Beets
 Categories: Vegetable, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 cn Sliced beets, drained
    1/2 c  Apple cider vinegar
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 c  Orange juice
 
     Simmer sugar , vinegar and bay leaf in saucepan for 5 minutes.
  Stir in orange juice and pour over beets.  Cover, chill overnight to
  bland flavors. Makes about 2 cups.  Two cups sliced fresh beets may
  be substituted. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding
  *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn Veg-All, drained
      1 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Grated cheese
      1    Stick oleo, melted
      1 cn Kernel corn, drained
      1 c  Chopped onion
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
           Ritz crackers, crushed
 
     Combine vegetables, cheese and mayonnaise.  Place in casserole.
  Top with Ritz crackers and drizzle oleo over all.  Bake at 350 F. for
  30 min. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR
  38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Biscuits
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      3 c  All-purpose flour
  2 1/2 ts Sugar
    3/4 ts Cream of tartar
      1 c  Milk
  4 1/2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Shortening
      1    Egg (optional)
      1 ts Butter extract
 
     Measure four into 2-quart bowl.  Sprinkle in baking powder, sugar,
  salt and cream of tartar.  Toss lightly with fork.  Cut in shortening
  with pastry blender until mixture is coarse with particles the size
  of peas. Make a well in center of mixture, pour in half the milk.
  Mix gently with fork.  Add egg with remaining milk.  Mix lightly with
  fork.  Turn out on lightly floured work surface.  Roll or pat out to
  thickness of 1/2" to 3/4".  Cut with lightly floured cutter, abt. 2
  inches in diameter.  Place on cookie sheet .  Bake at 400 F. for 12
  to 15 min or until lightly browned.  Makes about 2 dozen biscuits.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Angel Biscuits
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  All-purpose flour
      3 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 pk Dry yeast
      2 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Soda
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2 ts Warm water
 
     Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, soda and salt together.  Cut in
  shortening.  Soften yheast in water, stir until dissolved.  Mix with
  buttermilk and combine with dry ingredients.  Roll out to 1/4" thick
  and cut biscuits.  Place in cold ovn.  Biscuits will rise while oven
  heats. Bake at 400 F. for 15 minutes.  These biscuits may be made up
  and frozen for future use. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding
  *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Biscuits
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 lb Cheddar cheese, grated
    1/4 lb Butter or oleo
  1 1/4 c  Flour
           Pinch of salt
 
     Grate cheese and cream with butter.  Add flour, salt and sugar;
  chill. Make into tiny biscuits, put 1/2 pecan on top of each.  Bake
  at 400 F. for 10 minutes.  Reduce heat to 350 for 10 minutes.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Easy Sourdough Biscuits
 Categories: Bread, Sourdough
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  Self-rising flour
      2 c  Buttermilk
    2/3 c  Cooking oil
      2 pk Yeast
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Soda
 
     Mix all ingredients.  Keep tightly covered in refrigerator.  Take
  out as needed and knead with a little extra flour and bake. Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sourdough Biscuits
 Categories: Bread, Sourdough
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Yeast
      2 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Sugar
      4 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Soda
      1 c  Warm water
    3/4 c  Corn oil
      5 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
     Dissolve yeast in water.  Add buttermilk, corn oil and sugar.  Mix
  well. Sift flour, baking powder, salt and soda together and add to
  mixture. Work up dough and place in tight fitted covered bowl.
  Refrigerate. Pinch off what you need on floured board and roll out as
  you would biscuits. Return unused portion to refrigerator.  This will
  keep as long as a week. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Nut Bread
 Categories: Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Apricot halves (16 oz.)
    1/3 c  Shortening
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
     Drain apricots, reserving juice.  Press apricots through sieve.
  Add enough reserved syrup or juice to make 1 cup; set aside.  Cream
  sugar and shortening together until fluffy.  Add eggs, 1 at a time,
  beating well after each addition.  Combine dry ingredients and add to
  creamed mixture. Add apricots.  Stir just until all ingredients are
  moistened.  Stir in walnuts.  Spoon batter into well greased loaf
  pan.  Bake at 350 F. for 50 minutes or until bread tests done.
  Remove from pan and place on rack to cool. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Apple Bread
 Categories: Bread, Cajun/creol, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shortening
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Milk
      1 c  Chopped apples, unpeeled
    1/4 c  Chopped nuts
      2 c  Sifted flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
     Cream shortening, sugar, salt, vanilla until light and fluffy.
  Add eggs and beat well.  Add milk, apples and nuts, beat.  Stir in
  flour, baking powder, cinnamon.  Blend.  Pour into greased loaf pan.
  Bake at 350 F. for about 50 min. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Nut Bread
 Categories: Bread, Cajun/creol, Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Gold Medal Wondra Flour
      1 ts Soda
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Liquid shortening
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Vanilla
           Chopped Maraschino Cherries
           Chopped nuts
 
     Grease four #303 cans.  In large mixer bowl, combine all
  ingredients, except nuts and cherries.  Beat untill well blended.
  Fold in cherries and nuts.  Spoon batter into prepared cans.  Bake at
  325 F. for 60 min.  Cool 10 minutes, remove from cans and finish
  cooling on racks.  Wrap airtight in plastic wrap. Will keep on shelf
  for 1 week; in 'fridge for 1 month. For longer storage freeze.  If
  storing in refrigerator or freezer (or even not), zap in micro. for
  45 seconds on high.
      DELICIOUS!!  MAKES NICE GIFT FROM KITCHEN. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Bread I
 Categories: Bread, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Corn meal
    1/4 ts Soda
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      2    Eggs, beaten
      2 c  Sour milk(add 2tb.vinegar>>>
           To sweet milk.)
      2 tb Melted fat or bacon grease
 
     Sift together dry ingredients.  Add eggs to milk and stir into dry
  ingredients.  Add melted fat.  Pour into greased pan 8" square.  Bake
  at 425 F. for 20-30 min.  Serve hot plain, or butter generously and
  pour Bre'r Rabbit Syrup over (or Steen's Cane syrup). Courtesy
  Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Bread Ii
 Categories: Bread, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Corn meal
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Soda
      2 c  Buttermilk
    2/3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      2    Eggs, beaten
 
     Prepare large cast iron skillet:  grease generously with bacon
  drippings so that bottom of skillet is well covered.  Place skillet
  in 400 F. oven to heat.  Meanwhile prepare batter:  Combine dry
  ingredients, add eggs and butter milk, mixing well.  Remove skillet
  from oven when grease starts to smoke; scrape batter into skillet.
  Batter must start to sizzle as soon as it hits skillet.  Place in
  oven and continue baking for 20-25 minutes, or until browned on top.
  I don't use this skillet for anything but corn bread and I never wash
  it, just wipe out well.  After a few times you will find the corn
  bread will fall out of pan easily and intact. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers             BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dill Bread
 Categories: Bread, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 pk Yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water
      2 tb Butter
      2 ts Salt
      2 tb Instant minced onion
      2    Eggs
      2 c  Cottage cheese, cream style
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Soda
      2 tb Dill seed
  4 1/2 c  Flour, or more as needed
 
     Heat cottage cheese to lukewarm.  Soften yeast in warm water, let
  stand 10 minutes.  Combine cottage cheese, butter, sugar, salt, soda,
  onion and dill seed.  Add eggs and yeast mixture.  Beat well; add
  flour gradually; beat well after each addition.  Cover and let rise
  until double in size, about 1 hr. or more.  Punch down, turn into 2
  well greased coffee cans. let rise until double in bulk.  Bake at 350
  F. for 35 to 45 minutes.  Cool 5 minutes, turn onto rack.  Brush with
  melted butter, sprinkle with salt. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: San Francisco Sourdough French Bread
 Categories: Bread, Sourdough
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 pk Dry yeast
      2 tb Sugar
      5 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Warm water
  1 1/2 c  Sourdough starter
      2 ts Salt
 
     In large mixing bowl, sprinkle yeast over warm water, let dissolve
  5 minutes.  Stir in sugar, starter and gradually add 4 cups of the
  flour mixed with salt.  Cover bowl with damp cloth, let rise 1 to 1
  1/2 hrs in a warm, draft-free place.  Turn dough onto floured board,
  work in remaining flour until dough is no longer sticky,  Knead until
  satiny, about 5 min. Shape into 1 large round, or 2 long loaves.  Set
  on cookie sheet sprinkled with corn meal.  Let rise again in warm
  place for 1 to 1 1/2 hrs. Put shallow pan of water in lower shelf of
  oven; preheat to 400 F. Make diagonal slashes in bread.  Bake 40 to
  50 minutes or until crust is medium dark brown.  Set on rack to cool.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Nut Bread
 Categories: Bread, Dessert, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Sifted flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Coarse chopped pecans
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
      2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Diced, candied, mixed fruit
      1 c  Dairy eggnog
 
     Sift flour, baking powder, salt and sugar together.  Add pecans and
  fruit.  Mix until well blended.  Combine eggs, eggnog and butter, add
  to dry ingredients, mixing until ingredients are moistened.  Pour
  into greased and floured  9 x 5 x 3" loaf pan.  Bake at 350 F. until
  done. Cool about 1 hour before removing from pan.  Frost with
  powdered sugar icing with rum flavoring and decorate with glace
  cherries if desired. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  :          BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Couche Couche
 Categories: Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Oil
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Milk
      2 c  Corn meal
      1 ts Baking powder
    3/4 c  Water
 
     Heat oil in heavy iron pot.  Mix dry ingredients, add milk and
  water; batter will be soft.  Pour batter into hot oil, let crust form
  on bottom before stirring.  Reduce to low heat and stir occasionally
  until cooked, about 15 minutes.  Serve in bowl with milk and sugar as
  a cereal. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding *P
  CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dressing
 Categories: Poultry, Dressing, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Potato, grated
      1 lg Onion, chopped
    3/4    Loaf of bread, trim crusts
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk, or more
      6    Stalks celery, chopped
      1 pk Corn bread mix, baked
      1 lb Sausage, bulk
      2 tb Poultry seasoning
           Pepper to taste
      1 cn Chicken or turkey broth
 
     Crumble breads up, add enough milk to moisten.  Add remaining
  ingredients and saute until onion and celery are tender.  Place in big
  casserole.  Bake at 350 F. for 1 to 2 hrs. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Dressing
 Categories: Dressing, Poultry, Meat, Cajun/creol, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant
      2    Onions, chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      3 c  Cracker or bread crumbs
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 lb Pork sausage, hot or regular
      1    Chopped bell pepper
      1 ts Salt
           Milk
 
     Peel eggplant and cut into small pieces.  Cook in boiling salted
  water until tender, drain and set aside.  Saute sausage, onions,
  celery and pepper until done.  Add eggplant to sausage.  Soak cracker
  crumbs in milk to soften. Add crumbs and eggs to mixture.  Bake in
  shallow pan for about 25 minutes or until brown at 350 F.  If hot
  sausage is used, omit black pepper if desired. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Meat Dressing
 Categories: Dressing, Poultry, Meat, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      3 lb Ground meat
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Garlic powder to taste
    1/2    Bag stuffing mix (or more)
      5    Cloves garlic, chopped
           Parsley, chopped
      1    Pint oysters
      1    Chopped onion
      5    Green onions, chopped
      3    Stalks celery, chopped
           Giblets from poultry
 
     Brown meat, gizzards, heart and liver.  Add seasonings and
  vegetables and cook until onions are soft.  Mix dressing according to
  package directions.  Add oysters and pecans and cook 2 or 3 minutes.
  Cool before stuffing turkey. HINT: Dressing mixture (before adding
  oysters) should be quite dry. Oysters will give up a lot of moisture
  during cooking, plus natural juices from bird. Adjust accordingly.
  Courtesy Telephone Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hush Puppies I
 Categories: Bread, Cajun/creol, Main dish
      Yield: 18 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sifted flour
      1    Onion, minced
      1    Egg
      1 ts Sugar
      1 c  Corn meal
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
           Milk
 
     Mix all ingredients with just enough milk to moisten dough to a
  stiff consistency, but soft enough to spoon.  Dip with tbl. spoon and
  drop into hot fat.  Cook until golden brown.  If you need more,
  double recipe. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers             BillSpalding
  *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hush Puppies Ii
 Categories: Bread, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 20 servings
 
  2 2/3 c  Cold water
      1 lg Onion, chopped fine
  1 1/2 c  Yellow corn meal
      1 ts Baking powder
      3 tb Butter or oleo
    1/4 c  Parsley flakes
  2 2/3 tb Plain flour
      1 ts Salt
 
     Add butter to water and bring to a boil.  Add onion and parsley
  flakes to boiling water.  Sift together corn meal, flour, baking
  powder and salt.
   Stir this into the boiling water mixture and cook 5 minutes.  Stir
  well. Spread on large cookie sheet and cool.  Roll into small balls
  and freeze on a cookie sheet.  Fry in deep fat. Courtesy Telephone
  Pioneers BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Southern Hush Puppies
 Categories: Bread, Main dish, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Cream style corn
      1 c  Corn meal
           Chopped green onions
      1 tb Beer
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1    Egg
    1/4 sm Chopped bell pepper
      2 ts Baking powder
 
     Mix ingredients until you have a good, thick consistency, adding
  more corn meal or flour if needed.  Drop by tb.spoon full into deep
  hot fat. Fry until golden brown. Courtesy Telephone Pioneers
  BillSpalding *P CRBR 38 A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai Lite
 Categories: Asian, Seafood, Poultry, Pasta, Thai
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Uncooked linguine
    1/2 lb Chicken breast, boneless,
           & skinless
    3/4 c  No-salt-added tomato juice
      3 tb Kikkoman light soy sauce
      1 tb Vinegar
      2 ts Sugar
    3/4 ts Cornstarch
      3 tb Vegetable oil, divided
    1/2 lb Fresh bean sprouts, rinsed
           & drained
    1/3 c  Sliced green onion tops
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/2 lb Baby shrimp, cooked, rinsed,
           & drained
      1 tb Minced fresh cilantro
           Lime wedges
 
  Cook linguine accrding to package directions, omitting drain.  Cut
  chicken into thin strips.  Combine tomato juice, lite soy sauce,
  vinegar, sugar and cornstarch; set aside.  Heat 1 tablespoon oil in
  hot wok or large skillet over high heat.  Add chicken and stir-fry 1
  minute; remove.  Heat remaining 2 tablespoons oil in same pan.  Add
  bean sprouts, green onions and garlic; stir-fry 1 minute.  Stir in
  linguine and cook 2 minutes, or until heated through.  Add chicken,
  shrimp, cilantro and tomato sauce mixture.  Cook and stir until sauce
  boils and thickens.  Serve with lime wedges.  Garnish with additional
  cilantro.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Open Faced Reuben Sandwiches
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 28 servings
 
     14 sl Dark rye bread, toasted
           Prepared mustard
      1 cn 16 oz sauerkraut,drained
           -and chopped
      5 oz Sliced corned beef, finely
           -chopped
      2 c  Shredded lofat swiss cheese
           (8 oz)
    1/2 c  Lofat mayonaisse or salad
           -dressing
 
  1.  Heat oven to 375F. Spread toast lightly with mustard; place on
  ungreased cookie sheet.
  
  2.  Mix sauerkraut, corned beef, cheese and mayonaisse. Spread about
  1/3 cup sauerkraut mixture on each toast slice.
  
  3.  Bake about 10 minutes or until sauerkraut mixture is hot and
  cheese is melted. Cut sandwiches in halves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Pot Pie Ala Lin
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Reduced calorie margarine
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
    1/8 ts Pepper
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
      2 c  Cooked chicken or turkey
           -cut into 1 inch pieces
      1 pk 10 oz frozen peas & carrots
           Pastry for 9" 2 crust pie
      1 c  Canned small whole onions
 
  1.  Heat margarine in 3 qt. saucepan over low heat until melted. Stir
  in flour, salt, thyme and pepper. Cook, stirring constantly, until
  mixture is smooth and bubbly; remove from heat.
  
  2.  Stir in broth and whipping cream; heat to boiling, stirring
  constantly. Boil 1 minute, then stir in chicken, peas and carrots,
  and onions.
  
  3.  Heat oven to 425F. Prepare pastry. Fill bottom crust with mixture
  and top with top crust. Bake 35-45 minutes, or until golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Peach Cobbler
 Categories: Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
      4 c  Peeled fresh or canned
           Peaches, drained
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  Flour
      1 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Shortening
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  1.  Heat oven to 400F. Mix 1/2 cup sugar, cornstarch and nutmeg in a
  2 qt. saucepan. Stir in peaches and lemon juice. Cook over medium
  heat until mixture thickens and boils. Boil and stir 1 minute.
  
  2.  Pour into ungreased 2 quart casserole dish. Stir together the
  flour, baking powder, 1 T sugar and salt. Add the shortening and cut
  through with a fork until flour clings to shortening. Add milk. Form
  into a ball. Drop mixture by 6-8 teaspoonsful onto hot fruit.
  
  3.  Bake for 25-30 minutes, or until topping is golden brown. Serve
  with whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.
  
  NOTE:  You may substitute any fruit for the peaches, just being care-
  ful that the amounts are approximately the same.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Best Chocolate Cake with Fudge Frosting
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Shortening
    3/4 c  Water
    3/4 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Sale
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate,
           -melted and cooled
           Fudge frosting (see below)
 
  1.  Heat oven to 350F.
  
  2.  Grease and flour 13 x 9 x 3 pan, 3 8" round pans or 2 9" round
  pans.
  
  3.  Beat all ingredients except fudge frosting in a large bowl on low
  speed for 30 seconds, scraping bowl constantly. Beat on high speed
  for 3 minutes, scraping bowl constantly. Pour into pan(s).
  
  4.  Bake for 40-45 minutes (rectangle pan) or 30-35 minutes (round
  pans), or until wooden pick comes out clean. Cool rounds 10 min.;
  remove from pans. Cool completely. Frost.
  
  ======================================================================
  
                                  Fudge Frosting
  
  2 c sugar                               1/2  c shortening 3 oz
  unsweetened chocolate              2/3  c milk 1/2 t salt 2 t vanilla
  
  Mix all ingredients except vanilla in a 2 1/2 quart saucepan. Heat to
  a rolling boil, stirring occasionally. Boil 1 minute without
  stirring. Place saucepan in a bowl of ice and water. Beat until
  frosting is smooth and of spreading consistency; add vanilla.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tipsy Squire
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 9 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Warm milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
           Sherry Custard Sauce
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Toasted slivered almonds
 
  1.  Heat oven to 350F. Line bottom of square pan (9 x 9 x 2) with
  waxed paper. Mix flour and baking powder; reserve.
  
  2.  Beat eggs and sugar in large bowl on high speed about 3 minutes or
  until thick and lemony. Beat in milk and vanilla on low speed. Beat in
  flour mixture; stir in butter carefully. Pour into pan.
  
  3.  Bake about 25 minutes or until wooden pick inserted comes out
  clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pan and cool completely. Prepare
  Sherry Custard Sauce. Beat whipping cream in a chilled bowl until
  stiff. Cut cake into serving pieces; split each piece in half
  horizon- tally. Place bottom half on serving plate; top with 3
  tablespoons custard sauce. Cover with other half; top with 2-3
  tablespoons of custard sauce. Garnish with whipped cream and almonds.
  
  ======================================================================
                          Sherry Custard Sauce
  
  2   eggs                                2   egg yolks 1/3 cup sugar
  dash of salt 2 1/2 c milk 2 T sherry
  
  Mix eggs, egg yolks, sugar and salt in heavy 2 quart saucepan. Stir
  in milk gradually. Cook over medium-low heat,stirring constantly,
  just to boiling. Remove from heat and stir in sherry. Pour into glass
  or plastic bowl. Cover and refrigerate at least 2 hours but no more
  than 24 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gravlax
 Categories: Fish, Appetizer
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 lb Smoked fresh salmon, center
           Cut and boned
      2 lg Bunches fresh dill
    1/4 c  Coarse salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Crushed white peppercorns
           Lemon wedges and pepper
 
  1.  Place half the fish, skin side down, in a deep glass dish. Spread
  dill over fish. Sprinkle dry ingredients over dill. Top with the
  other half of the fish, skin side up.
  
  2.  Cover with foil and weight with a board and a five pound weight.
  Refrigerate for 48-72 hours, turning the salmon and basting every 12
  hours with accumulated juices.
  
  3.  To serve, remove the fish from marinade, scrape away dill and
  spices, and pat dry. Slice salmon thinly on the diagonal and serve on
  small plates or squares of black bread. Garnish with lemon wedges and
  black pepper and accompany with Dill Mustard Sauce.
  
  Source:  The Silver Palate Restaurant, NYC
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dill Mustard Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Sweet mustard
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh dill
 
  Mix all ingredients together. Cover and refrigerate until ready to
  use. The sauce will keep for up to 3 days if refrigerated.
  
  Great with Gravlax and other fish.
  
  Makes 2 cups.
  
  Source:  The Silver Palate Restaurant, NY
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pate Maison Ala Silver Palate
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 sm Celery ribs with leaves
      4    Whole peppercorns
      6 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      1 lb Chicken livers
           Tiny pinch of cayenne pepper
    1/2 lb (2 sticks) sweet butter
      2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Grated nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 c  Roughly chopped onion
      1 sm Garlic clove
    1/4 c  Calvados
    1/2 c  Dried currants
 
  1.  Add celery and peppercorns to 6 cups water in a saucepan. Add the
  salt and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 10 minutes.
  
  2.  Add chicken livers and simmer very gently for about 10 minutes;
  livers should still be pink inside (slightly).
  
  3.  Drain; discard celery and peppercorns, and place livers in the
  bowl of a food processor fitted with a steel blade. Add remaining
  ingredients except currants and process until well blended and very
  smooth.
  
  4.  Scrape into a bowl, stir in currants, and transfer pate to a 3-4
  cup crock or terrine. Smooth the top of the pate, cover, and
  refrigerate at least 4 hours. Allow the pate to stand at room temp
  for about 30 minutes before serving.
  
  About 3 cups pate, or 8+ servings
  
  Source:  The Silver Palate Restaurant, NYC
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aioli Platter
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Double batch Aioli sauce
      6 sm Artichokes, trimmed, boiled,
           And chokes removed
      7 lb Cod, poached
      1 lb Carpaccio (thinly sliced
           -and pounded raw beef tender
           -loin
    1/2 lb Snow peas, trimmed, blanced
           -and refreshed in cold water
    1/2 lb Green beans, same as above
      1 lb Carrots, cut into 2" pieces
      3 lb Cauliflower, in florets
      1 lb Chick peas, cooked
      3 lg Red or green peppers, sliced
      1 pt Cherry tomatoes
      1 lb Zucchini, sliced
      1 lb Small potatoes, cooked
      6    Eggs, sliced in half(cooked)
      4 tb Capers
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
 
  1.  Spoon some of the aioli sauce into the center of each artichoke.
  
  2.  Place an aioli-filled artichoke in the middle of each plate, and
  arrange the cod, carpaccio, prepared vegetables, and eggs around it
  in a spoke-like fashion, making sure each plate has some of all.
  Sprinkle with parsley and capers.
  
  Makes 12 servings
  
  Source:  The Silver Palate Cookbook
  ======================================================================
  
                                  AIOLI SAUCE
  
  8-10   garlic cloves, peeled               2 egg yolks, room temp
  salt and freshly ground pepper             juice of 1 lemon 1 t Dijon
  mustard 1 1/2 c oil (half olive,
                                              half peanut) at room temp
  1.  Puree garlic in a food processor or blender. Whisk the egg yolks
  in a small bowl until light and smooth, and add to the garlic. Add
  salt and pepper to taste, lemon juice, and mustard, and process to a
  smooth paste.
  
  2.  With the machine still running, add the oil, very slowly, into the
  mixture in a constant, steady stream, blending constantly. Con- tinue
  the blending until you obtain a thick, shiny, firm sauce. Transfer to
  a storage container, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until
  ready to use.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: One Bowl Brownies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      4    Sq unsweetened chocolate
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter (1 1/2)
      2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
  1 1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  1.  Heat oven to 350F.
  
  2.  Microwave chocolate and margarine in large bowl on high for 2
  minutes or until margarine is melted. Stir until chocolate is com-
  pletely melted.
  
  3.  Stir in sugar until well blended. Stir in eggs and vanilla until
  completely blended. Mix in flour until well-blended. Stir in walnuts.
  Spread in greased 13 x 9 pan.
  
  4.  Bake for 30-35 minutes or until toothpick inserted into center
  comes out with fudgy crumbs. Do not overbake!
  
  Variation:  For cake like brownies, stir in 1/2 cup milk with eggs and
  vanilla; use 1 1/2 cups flour. When using glass baking dish, reduce
  oven to 325F.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Medallions with Port Sauce
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Pork tenderloin, trimmed
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Flour, as needed
      2 tb Unsalted butter or margarine
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Port wine
 
  1.  Slice the tenderloin crosswise into medallions 1/2" thick.
  Sprinkle both sides with salt and pepper, and then dredge each in the
  flour to coat, shaking off any excess.
  
  2.  Heat the butter and oil in a heavy skillet at medium high. Saute
  the medallions in small batches until browned, 1 minute per side.
  Turn only once. Remove each batch to an ovenproof serving dish; keep
  warm in a 225 degree oven.
  
  3.  Prepare the sauce:  put the skillet, with the meat drippings, on
  a high heat; add the chicken stock and wine. Bring to a boil, scrap-
  ping and stirring until some of the broth evaporates. Keep cooking
  the sauce until thick enough to coat the back of a spoon, about 6-8
  minutes.
  
  4.  Serve the meat with the sauce spooned over the top of each medal-
  lion.
  
  Per 4 ounce serving:  347 calories
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Skillet Corn and Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Margarine
      4    Skinless,boneless chicken
           Breast halves
      1 cn Campbell's Golden Corn Soup
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 c  Broccoli florets
    1/2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  1.  In skillet, in hot margarine, cook chicken 10 minutes or until
  browned. Remove; set aside. Spoon off fat.
  
  2.  In skillet, combine remaining ingredients. Heat till boiling.
  Return chicken to skillet.
  
  3.  Cover; cook over low heat 10 minutes or until chicken is no
  longer pink and broccoli is tender-crisp; stirring often. Garnish
  with tomato wedges and fresh thyme, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Low Cal Crab Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/2 c  Low fat sour cream
      2 tb Low fat margarine
      1 tb Skim milk
      1 tb Horseradish
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Hot sauce
      1    8 oz tub lo fat cream cheese
      1 c  4 oz shredded lo fat cheddar
           Cheese (sharp)
    1/2 lb Fresh lump crabmeat, drained
    1/8 ts Paprika
 
  1.  Position knife blade in food processor; add first 8 ingredients.
  Process until smooth. Spoon mixture into a bowl; stir in cheese and
  crab. Cover and chill. Sprinkle with paprika; serve with unsalted
  crackers or vegetables. Makes: 3 1/2 cups Calories per 1 tablespoon:
  18 (fat, .9 gram)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Roughy Veracruz
 Categories: Fish, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ts Olive oil
      1 c  Sliced onion
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      1 c  Yellow bell pepper rings
      1 cn (14.5 oz) mexican-style
           Stewed tomatos w/jalapeno
           Peppers undrained
      4    4 oz pieces orange roughy
           Dash of garlic powder
           Dash of ground red pepper
 
  1.  Heat oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add onion
  and garlic, saute 7 minutes or until tender. Add peppers and tomatos;
  cook over medium-high heat 3 minutes. Add fish; sprinkle with garlic
  powder and pepper. Cover and reduce heat, simmer 5 minutes.
  
  2.  Turn fish over. Cover and simmer an additional 5 minutes or until
  fish flakes with a fork. Transfer to individual serving plates,
  reserving cooking sauce in skillet. Keep fish warm.
  
  3.  Place skillet with cooking sauce over medium-high heat, and cook 3
  minutes or until thickened. Serve sauce over fish.
  
  Calories:  149 per serving
  
  Source:  Cooking Light Magazine, May-June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Caesar Salad
 Categories: Salad, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      4    1 oz. slices French bread
           Vegetable cooking spray
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      2 lb Boneless chicken breasts
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Anchovy paste
    1/4 ts Fresh ground pepper
      5 cl Garlic
      9 c  Romaine lettuce
    1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
 
  1.  Trim bread crusts and discard.Cut bread into 1 inch cubes. Place
  cubes in a single layer on a baking sheet. Coat cubes with cooking
  spray; sprinkle with garlic powder; toss well. Bake at 350F for 15
  minutes or until lightly browned and set aside.
  
  2.  Coat a large nonstick skillet with cooking spray; place over med-
  high heat until hot. Add chicken halves; saute 6 minutes on each side
  or until well done. Remove chicken from skillet; let cool. Cut
  chicken across the grain into thin slices; set aside.
  
  3.  Combine lemon juice and next 5 ingredients in container of an
  electric blender. Cover and process until smooth. Add 1/4 cup of the
  lemon juice mixture to the chicken; toss gently to coat.
  
  4.  In a large salad bowl, place the lettuce. Drizzle remaining lemon
  juice mixture over lettuce and toss well. Add the chicken mixture and
  cheese, and toss gently to coat. Serve with croutons.
  
  Calories per 1 1/2 cup serving:  257
  
  Source:  Cooking Light Magazine, May-June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Cream of Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 tb Sweet butter
      2 c  Finely chopped yellow onions
      2    Carrots, peeled & chopped
      2 tb Curry powder or more
      5 c  Chicken stock
      6    Parsley sprigs
      1    Chicken, 3 pounds, quartered
    1/2 c  Long grain rice
      1 c  Half and half
     10 oz Frozen peas, defrosted
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  1.  Melt the butter in a pot. Add onions and carrots and curry powder
  and cook over low heat, covered, until vegetables are tender, about
  25 minutes; stir occasionally.
  
  2.  Add the stock, parsley, chicken, and rice. Bring soup to a boil,
  reduce heat, and cover. Cook at a simmer for 25-30 minutes, or until
  chicken is done.
  
  3.  Cool chicken in stock. Remove meat from the bones, and dice it.
  Reserve the meat.
  
  4.  Pour the soup through a strainer and put the solids in a food
  processor bowl. Add 1 cup of the liquid and process until smooth.
  Reserve the rest of the liquid.
  
  5.  Return pureed soup to the pot and add the half and half. Stir in
  additional cooking stock, about 4 cups, until soup reaches desired
  consistency.
  
  6.  Add reserved diced chicken and defrosted peas and simmer for 15
  minutes, or until peas are done. Season to taste, and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti with Oil and Garlic
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 cl Garlic
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      4 qt Water
  1 1/2 tb Salt
      1 lb Spaghetti
  1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Chopped parsley
           Black pepper, fresh ground
           Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  1.  Peel garlic cloves. Mince 6 of them and set aside. Slice the
  remaining garlic.
  
  2.  Heat the oil in a small skillet. Add sliced garlic and cook over
  medium heat stirring occasionally, until golden brown.
  
  3.  Bring 4 quarts of water to a boil. Stir in salt, add spaghetti
  and cook until firm yet tender. Do not over cook. Drain, and transfer
  to a pot.
  
  4. Add the chicken broth to the past and simmer until most of the
  broth has been absorbed.
  
  5. Stir in the garlic and oil mixtrue, then the minced garlic and
  parsley. Toss thoroughly.
  
  6. Divide the pasta among heated plates, pour any remaining broth
  over the pasta, and served immediately accompanied by lots of grated
  cheese and freshly ground black pepper.
  
  Source:  Silver Palate Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Ala Puttanesca
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Spaghetti, linguini, or
           Other pasta of your choice
      2 cn Peeled italian tomatoes
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Oregano
    1/8 ts Dried red pepper flakes
    1/2 c  Tiny black Nicoise olives
    1/4 c  Drained capers
      4 cl Garlic, peeled and minced
      8    Anchovie filets, chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
      2 tb Salt
 
  1.  Bring 4 quarts water to a boil; add salt and stir in spaghetti.
  Cook until tender but still firm. Drain, and transfer to heated
  plates.
  
  2.  While spaghetti is cooking, drain the tomatoes, cut them cross-
  wise into halves, and squeeze out as much liquid as possible. Combine
  tomatoes and olive oil in a skillet and bring to a boil. Keep the
  sauce at a full boil and add remaining ingredients except pasta, one
  at a time, stirring frequently.
  
  3.  Reduce heat and continue to cook for a few minutes, or until
  sauce has thickened to your liking. Serve immediately over hot pasta
  and garnish with additional parsley.
  
  Source:  The Silver Palate Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Carbonara
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Thick-sliced bacon, diced
      2 tb Salt
      1 lb Linguini
      3    Eggs
    1/3 c  Chopped Italian parsley
           Grated Parmesan cheese
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
 
  1.  Saute the bacon in a small skillet until crisp. Remove with a
  slotted spoon and drain well on a paper towel.
  
  2.  Boil the water and cook linguini until firm and tender.
  
  3.  Meanwhile, beat the eggs thoroughly in a large bowl suitable for
  serving. Have the cooked bacon and the chopped parsley ready at hand.
  
  4.  When the pasta is done, drain it immediately in a colander, and
  pour into the bowl of eggs and immediately begin tossing it. As the
  strands of pasta become coated with the beaten eggs, their heat will
  cook the eggs.
  
  5.  Sprinkle the bacon and parsley on, and serve immediately. This is
  great with lots of freshly grated Parmesan cheese and freshly ground
  black pepper.
  
  Source:  The Silver Palate Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crunchy Taco Chip Chicken
 Categories: Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    3 oz skinless chickn breasts
      1 c  Chopped scallions or onions
      1 c  Chopped red pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 tb + 1 t local margarine
  1 1/2 c  Stewed tomatoes
      4    Taco shells, crushed coarse
     20 sm Pimento-stuffed olives, chop
           -ped
  1 1/2 oz Shredded cheddar cheese
 
  1.  In a 1 1/2 quart casserole, arrange chicken breasts with thicker
  parts toward outside of the dish. Cover and microwave on high 8-10
  minutes, until chicken is thoroughly cooked. Remove chicken to plate
  and set aside.
  
  2.  In the same casserole, combine scallions (onions), pepper, celery
  and margarine; microwave on high 3-4 minutes, stirring once, until
  vegetables are tender. Add tomatoes; microwave on high 5-7 minutes,
  until slightly thickened.
  
  3.  Arrange chicken on top of tomato mixture; sprinkle evenly with
  coarsely crushed taco chips, cheese and olives. Microwave on high 2
  minutes, until cheese melts.
  
  Serve with rice and a salad.
  
  Each serving provides:  1 fat, 2 1/2 proteins, 2 vegetables, 1/2
  bread. Per serving:  351 calories.
  
  Source:  Weight Watchers Magazine, June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crispy Coconut Shrimp
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 md Shrimp
    1/2 ts Garlic and herb seasoning
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    3/4 c  Flour
      1    Egg, well beaten
    1/4 c  Shredded coconut
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 425F. Spray large baking sheet with nonstick
  spray.
  
  2.  Sprinkle shrimp evenly with seasoning blend and pepper. Place
  flour, egg, and coconut in three small separate bowls. Dip shrimp
  first in egg, the flour, then back in egg, then in coconut. Arrang
  shrimp on baking sheet.
  
  3.  Bake 12-15 minutes or until golden and crisp.
  
  Great served along with low-calorie, warmed orange marmalade as a
  dipping sauce.
  
  Each serving provides: 1 1/2 protein, 1 bread, 15 calories. Per
  serving: 173 calories
  
  Source:  Weight Watchers Magazine, June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Chip-Oatmeal Cookies
 Categories: Low-cal/fat, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lo cal margarine
    1/2 c  Unsweetened applesauce
    1/2 c  Packed dark brown sugar
      2 tb Thawed frozen apple juice
           -concentrate
    1/4 c  Boiling water
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 1/4 c  Flour
  4 1/2 oz Quick oats
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 oz Semisweet chocolate chips
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350F. Spray large baking sheet with nonstick
  spray.
  
  2.  In a large bowl, with mixer on high, beat margarine, applesauce,
  brown sugar and apple juice concentrate until light and fluffy (note
  mixture may appear to be curdled).
  
  3.  In a small bowl, combine boiling water, baking soda, and vanilla
  and beat into margarine mixture.
  
  4.  In large bowl, combine flour, oats, and salt. Gradually add to
  margarine mixture, beating well after each addition. Add chocolate
  chips.
  
  5.  Drop by rounded teaspoonsful onto prepared baking sheet, making 48
  cookies. Bake 10-12 minutes until golden brown. Cool completely on
  rack.
  
  Each serving provides:  1 fat, 1 1/2 bread, 65 calories Per serving:
  226 calories
  Source:  Weight Watchers Magazine, June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basil, Potato and Egg Salad
 Categories: Salad, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb 4 oz red new potatoes,
           -scrubbed and quartered
    3/4 c  Nonfat plain yogurt
    1/4 c  Minced scallions
      2 tb +2 t low cal mayonnaise
      1 tb Cider or red wine vinegar
      2 ts Dijon or spicy brown mustard
      1 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White pepper
      2 lg Hard cooked eggs, chopped
      2 sl Cooked turkey bacon crumbled
 
  1.  In a large saucepan, over high heat, bring potatoes and enough
  water to cover to a boil. Reduce heat to low, and simmer 15-20 min.
  Drain potatoes; let cool to room temperature.
  
  2.  Meanwhile, in a medium bowl, compine yogurt, scallions, mayonaise,
  vinegar, mustard, basil, salt and pepper. Fold in eggs and bacon. Add
  potatoes, and toss gently to coat. Cover and refrigerate at least 2
  hours before serving.
  
  Each serving provides:  1 fat, 1/2 protein, 1 bread, 40 calories Per
  serving:  227 calories
  
  Source:  Weight Watchers Magazine, June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crustless Chili Quiche
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lg Eggs
      3 tb Flour
      2 tb +2 t low fat margarine,
           -melted
      1 tb Dijon mustard
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 dr Red pepper sauce
      1 c  Nonfat cottage cheese
  1 1/2 oz Shredded MontereyJack cheese
    1/4 c  Chopped green chiles, canned
      1 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Drained chopped roasted red
           -pepper
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 350F. Spray a 9" pie plate with nonstick spray.
  
  2.  In a medium bowl, lightly beat eggs. Whisk in flour, margarine,
  mustard, salt and pepper sauce. Stir in cottage cheese, Monterey Jack
  cheese, chilies, and red pepper. Spoon mixture into prepared pie
  plate; sprinkle with Parmesan cheese.
  
  3.  Bake 20-30 minutes, until filling is set and top is golden. Let
  stand 10 minutes before cutting into quarters.
  
  Per serving:  1 fat, 2 proteins, 30 cal. Each serving provides: 232
  calories
  
  Source:  Weight Watchers Magazine, June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant-Macaroni Bake
 Categories: Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Elbow macaroni
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
      2 tb Minced scallions
      1 tb + 1 t. olive oil
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      2 c  Sliced eggplant, 1/2" thick
      2 md Sliced tomatoes, 1/2" thick
    1/2 ts Basil
      3 oz Shredded cheddar cheese
    1/4 ts Paprika
 
  1.  In a large pot of boiling water, cook macaroni 8-10 minutes, just
  until tender. Drain, and reserve 1/4 cup of the cooking liquid. Place
  cooking liquid in a large bowl, stir in Parmesan cheese, scal- lions,
  oil, and pepper. Add macaroni, toss well to mix. Set aside.
  
  2.  Spray large nonstick skillet with spray. Add eggplant; cook 2-3
  minutes on each side, until tender.
  
  3.  Preheat oven to 400F. Spray an 8" square pan with nonstick spray.
  Layer half the tomatoes and eggplant in pan; sprinkle with basil.
  Spread macaroni on top; layer remaining tomato and eggplant over
  macaroni. Sprinkle with cheddar cheese and paprika. Bake 20-25 min.,
  until bubbly.
  
  Each serving provides:  1 fat, 1 protein, 2 vegetables, 2 breads, 15
  calories.
  
  Per serving:  324 calories
  
  Source:  Weight Watchers Magazine, June 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brigitte's Shrimp or Tuna Mousse
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Mayonnaisse
    1/2 c  Water
      1 cn Tomato soup
      1 pk 8 oz cream cheese
      1 ts Paprika
      1 lb Shrimp or 2 sm cns tuna
    1/4 c  Peppers, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Celery, finely chopped
      1 tb Onion, grated
      1 ts Worchestershire Sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin in
           Water as directed
 
  Soak gelatin in water. Heat undiluted sop; add gelatin and stir well
  until dissolved. Mash cream cheese; add to soup and continue to heat
  until cheese is dissolved. Cool. Fold in mayonaisse, shrimp or tuna,
  and vegetables and seasonings. Mix well and put into a well-oiled
  mold. Enjoy! Source: Brigitte Sealing, Watertown, NY
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brigitte's Tuna Burgers
 Categories: Sandwich
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      6 sl Turkey bacon
      1    Egg
      2 cn 7 oz ea tuna, undrained
      6    Tomato slices
      1 ts Mustard
    1/3 c  Lo fat mayonnaisse
      1 tb Minced onion
      3    Hamburger buns
 
  Cook bacon; beat egg; add tuna, mustard, mayonnaisse, onion, bread
  crumbs, and mix well. Spoon onto bottom halves of buns. Broil 6" away
  from the heat till brown; about 6 minutes. Top each with a tomato
  slice and two pieces of bacon. Cover with top of buns which you have
  toasted lightly before
  
  Source: Brigitte Sealing, Watertown, NY
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sunshine Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 md Oranges
      1 pk Lemon cake mix
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      3    Eggs
           Cool whip
 
  1. Heat oven to 350F.
  
  2. Grease 13 x 9 x 3 pan, and set aside. Grate peel and squeeze juice
  from oranges. Add enough water to orange juice to measure 1 cup.
  
  3. Beat cake mix (dry), 1 tablespoon orange peel, oil, eggs, and
  juice in large bowl for 30 seconds on low speed, then on medium speed
  for 2 minutes. Pour into pan.
  
  4. Bake 30-35 minutes or until cake springs back when lightly touched.
  Cool. Serve with cool whip, whipped cream and if desired, sprinkle
  with remaining orange rind.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lord and Taylor's Scotch Broth
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Breast of Lamb w/bone, or
           Stewing lamb
      8 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Pearl barley
      2 tb Butter
      2    Carrots, peeled and diced
      1    White turnip, peeled/diced
      2    Ribs celery, diced
      1    Onion, diced
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  1. In a large stockpot, cover the lamb with cold water; bring to a
  boil. Add the barley, partially cover the pot, and simmer until the
  meat and barley is tender, 1 1/2 hours. Add more water to adjust for
  evaporation; skim the surface of the soup as necessary..
  
  2. Remove the meat from the broth. Cut the meat away from the bone,
  discard the bones, and return the meat to the soup.Continue simmering
  the soup.
  
  3. In a skillet, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the carrots,
  turnip, celery, and onion and cook stirring often for 10 minutes.
  
  4. Add the vegetables to the soup. Simmer until the vegetables are
  tender, about 10 minutes more. Season with salt and pepper to taste.
  
  Source: New York Cookbook, Molly O'Neill, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Al's Seafood Bisque - From Al's Soup Kitchen, Nyc
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Dry white wine
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Onion, roughly chopped
      1 cl Garlic
      2    Ribs celery
      1    Lobster (1- 1 1/2 lb)
     12 md Shrimp in the shell
     24    Mussels, well scrubbed
     12    Sea scallops
      4 c  Heavy whipping cream
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Dried thyme
      1 tb Minced fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Dried rosemary
      1 c  Fresh spinach, chopped
    1/2 c  Grated carrot
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/2 ts Fresh lemon juice
 
  1. Combine the white wine, bay leaf, onion, garlic, and celery in a
  large stockpot over medium heat. Bring to a boil. Add the lobster,
  cover the pot and steam for 10 minutes. Remove the lobster.
  
  2. Add the shrimp, cover the pot, and steam for 5 minutes. Remove the
  shrimp with tongs.
  
  3. Add the mussels, cover the pot and steam until they open, about 5
  minutes. Remove the mussels with tongs, extract the meat, and discard
  the shells. Discard any that do not open.
  
  4. Add 2 cups water to the liquid in the pot, bring to a boil, and
  then add the scallops. Cover the pot and steam for 3 minutes. Remove
  the scallops with tongs.
  
  5. Extract the lobster meat, reserving the shells. Peel and devein the
  shrimp, reserving the shells. Chop the meats into bite-sized portions;
  cover and set aside.
  
  6. Return the seafood shells to the pot of broth and add 2 cups water.
  Bring to a boil, and then reduce the heat and simmer for 30 minutes.
  Strain the broth and return to the pan.
  
  7. Bring the broth to a simmer over low heat. Add the cream, milk,
  thyme, parsley and rosemary and simmer until the mixture thickens
  slightly, 5 minutes. Add the lobster, shrimp, mussels, and scallops
  and simmer for 2 minutes. Stir in the spinach and carrots and simmer
  another 2 minutes just to wilt the spinach. Season with salt and
  pepper, and stir in the lemon juice. Serve hot.
  
  Serves 6.
  
  Source: The New York Cookbook, Molly O'Neill, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polish Corn Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           SOURDOUGH STARTER:
      2 c  Cold water
      6 c  Rye flour
      1 ts Active dry yeast
           ============================
           BREAD:
      4 c  Warm water (105-110 F)
  5 1/2 c  Rye flour
  5 1/2 c  All purpose flour
      2 tb Salt
      4 pk Dry yeast dissolved in 1/4
           -cup warm water (105-110F)
    1/4 c  Ground cornmeal
      2 ts Caraway seeds
 
  1. Start sourdough starter at least 3 days before baking: Combine the
  cold water, rye flour, and yeast in a bowl. Mix well; it will be
  lumpy. Pour the mixture in a clean bowl, cover with a cloth, and
  refrigerate for 3 days.
  
  2. Remove the starter from the refrigerator 2 hours before beginning
  to make the bread.
  
  3. Transfer the starter to a large bowl and add the warm water, yeast,
  flours, salt, cornmeal and caraway seeds and mix until smooth, 5
  minutes.
  
  4. Divide the dough in half. Shape into 2 even rounds. Place each
  round in a lightly greased bowl, cover with a clean cloth, and set
  aside to rise in a warm place until doubled in size, about 1-2 hrs.
  
  5. Place a roasting pan on the bottom of the oven and fill with hot
  water. Preheat the oven to 400F. Sprinkle a baking sheet with corn-
  meal.
  
  6. Dampen your hands and reshape the bread into even round mounds.
  Place the loaves on a prepared baking sheet. Bake the bread until
  crusty, about 2 hours. If the water in the roasting pan runs low
  during the baking, replenish it to provide the bread with steam heat.
  Cool, or serve warm.
  
  Makes 2 large loaves.
  
  Source:  New York Cookbook, Molly O'Neill, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spring Street Prosciutto Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  2 1/2 ts Active dry yeast
      1 c  Warm (105-110F) water
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Olive oil
  3 1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 c  Fresh Parmesan cheese
      2 c  Minced prosciutto
           Cornmeal for dusting
 
  1. Dissolve the yeast in the warm water in a large mixing bowl and set
  aside for 15 minutes.
  
  2. Stir in the eggs and oil. Combine 3 cups of the flour with the
  salt and pepper, and stir into the yeast mixture. Knead to combine
  adding more flour, a little at a time, to make a firm dough.
  
  3. Combine the parmesan cheese and the prosciutto and lightly dust
  with flour. Work the misture into the dough. Turn the dough out onto
  a floured board and knead until smooth, 10 minutes. Return the dough
  to a well-oiled bowl, cover, and set aside to rise in a warm place
  until doubled in size, about 2 hours.
  
  4. Punch down the dough and knead for 3 minutes. Divide the dough in
  half. Form each half into a oblong loaf. Sprinkle 2 baking sheets
  with cornmeal and place a loaf on each. Set aside to rise until
  doubled in size, about 1 hour.
  
  5. Line the oven with wet baking tiles, stones or trays of terra-cotta
  chips and preheat to 425F.
  
  6. Using a razor, make 6 slashes diagonally across the top of each
  loaf. Bake until golden, about 40 minutes, spraying with a plant
  mister every 5 minutes for the first 15 minutes of baking. Cool on a
  wire rack.
  
  Makes 2 loaves.
  
  Source: New York Cookbook, Molly O'Neill, 1993
  
  From: D&G Bakery, Spring Street, Manhatten
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lowfat Fettuccine Alfredo
 Categories: Low-cal/fat, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Fettuccine
    1/2 c  Nonfat cottage cheese
    1/2 c  Evaporated skim milk
    1/2 ts Arrowroot or rice flour
           ;salt
           ;pepper
      1 ts Garlic powder,optional
      1 ts Onion powder,optional
      2 ts Parsley;minced
           Grated parmesan cheese
           --as garnish
 
  Cook fettuccine and drain.  Meanwhile, combine cottage cheese, skim
  mild, arrowroot, salt and pepper, and garlic and onion powders if
  desired, in a blender. puree until smooth. Transfer mixture to a
  heavy skillet or saucepan, add parsley and warm over medium-low heat
  for 10 minutes. Do not let sauce boil. Remove from heat and pour over
  hot, drained noodles. Sprinkle with parmesan.
  
  Variations:  use tomato or spinach fettuccine, and garnish with sun-
  dried tomatoes and chopped fresh basil. Or lightly steam 1 cup
  broccoli florets for 3 to 4 min, until tender-crisp. Toss with sauce
  and hot pasta. Or saute 3/4 cup sliced mushrooms in 2 tbs red wine.
  Toss with sauce and hot pasta.
  
  Per serving:  452 cal; 19g prot; 5g fat; 80g carb; 104mg chol; 424mg
  sod; 0.4g fiber. From vegetarian Times Magazine MM by Kat ++++ -----
  The "LaRK" (Cooking, WP51, Chatter)
  
   * Origin: "LaRK's" Kitchen (1:343/26.3)
  
   Msg:  7823 From: Lawrence Kellie To: All Subj: Very Trad. English
  Scones Date: 10 Feb 93  09:46:0 Hope you enjoy it, too.
  
  +++++---------- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v7.04 (*P)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-Potato Fritters
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Sweet potatoes; peeled and
           -coarsely shredded
      1 sm Onion; coarsely shredded
      3 lg Eggs
      3 tb Flour
           Vegetable oil; for frying

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  157 calories
        x  5 g protein
        x  23 g carbohydrate
        x  5 g fat
        x  106 mg cholesterol
        x  217 mg sodium
 
  1.  Spread potatoes and onion on clean dish towel; roll up, twisting
  towel to extract excess moisture from vegetables.
  
  2.  In bowl, whisk eggs, flour, 1/2 t salt and 1/4 t pepper until
  smooth
  
  3.  In large nonstick skillet, heat 1/4 cup oil over medium-high
  heat.  Ad vegetables to batter; mix.  Spoon mixture into skillet,
  allowing heaping 1 T for each fritter; with back of spoon, flatten
  slightly.  Fry, six fritters at a time, 4 minutes.  Turn; cook 2 to 4
  minutes.  Drain on paper towels; keep warm while frying remaining
  fritters, adding more oil if necessary.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38878
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:47 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melon, Hearts of Palm, and Prosciutto Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 c  Mesclun salad mix* or
           -4 oz bag mixed greens,
           -chilled
     14 oz Hearts of palm; drained
           -cut into 1/2 inch slices
      2 c  Diced cantaloupe
    1/4 lb Prosciutto; thinly sliced
           -or boiled ham cut into 2
           -inch pieces
    1/2 c  Red-wine vinaigrette

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  240 calories
        x  10 g protein
        x  17 g carbohydrate
        x  16 g fat
        x  13 mg cholesterol
        x  467 mg sodium
 
  In salad bowl, combine first four ingredients.  Add dressing and toss.
  
  *Mesclun is a mixture of shoots and leaves from slightly bitter
  lettuces--endive, mache, arugula, dandeline and oak leaf.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38879
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:48 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini-Tomato Tian*
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 tb Extra virgin olive oil
      4 lg Onions; sliced
      2 ts Thyme; fresh, chopped
      8 lg Plum tomatoes
  1 1/2 lb Zucchini; small

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  120 calories
        x  3 g protein
        x  13 g carbohydrate
        x  7 g fat
        x  0 cholesterol
        x  212 mg sodium
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 375F.  In skillet, heat 1 T oil over medium heat.
  Add onions; saute 10 minutes, or until tender.  Add 1 t thyme and 1/4
  t each salt and pepper.
  
  2.  Cut each tomato lengthwise into 4 slices.  Slice zucchini
  crosswise into 1/2-inch diagonal slices.  Arrange tomate, zucchini
  and onion slices in rows across width of 2 1/2 qt shallo baking dish.
  
  3.  In small bowl, combine remaining 3 T oil, 1/2 t salt and 1/4 t
  pepper; mix.  Drizzle over vegetables.  Cover tightly with foil.
  Bake 15 minutes; uncover.  Bake 30 minutes or until vegetables are
  tender; let stand 10 miutes before serving.
  
  *Tian is the name of both a layered vegetable mixture and the baking
  dish it's cooked in, Provence, Franc.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38880
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:48 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Free-Form Apple Tart
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     15 oz Refrigerated pie crusts;
           -ready to bake
      4    Golden Delicious apples
      3 tb Sugar
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 c  Apricot jam

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  287 calories
        x  3 g protein
        x  42 g carbohydrate
        x  13 g fat
        x  0 cholesterol
        x  347 mg sodium
 
  1.  Let pie crusts stand at room temperatureas package label directs;
  unfold and overlap by 4 inch to form an oval.  On floured work
  surface, roll with rolling pin to join; roll to a 19x22 inch oval.
  Drape voer rolling pin; trasnfer to large baking sheet.  (Oval will
  be too long for sheet, but edges will be folded up for baking.)
  
  2.  Preheat oven to 425F.  Peel apples; core, leaving apples whole.
  Thinly slice crosswise; arrange in overlapping rows on pastry,
  leaving a 1 inch pastry border.  Fold border over apples, pressing
  gently.  In cup, combine sugar and cinnamon; sprinkle over apples.
  Bake 40 minutes or until pastry is well-browned on bottom.
  
  3.  In saucepan, over low heat, melt jam.  Spread warm jam over
  apples.
  
  From:  McCall'sAugust 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38881
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:48 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pesto Potato-Sausage Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Red potatoes; small, halved
           -or quartered if large
      1 lb Smoked hot sausage or
           -kielbasa
      1 pt Cherry tomatoes; halved
      2 tb Red-wine vinegar
    1/3 c  Prepared pesto

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  260 calories
        x  8 g protein
        x  25 g carbohydrate
        x  15 g fat
        x  23 mg cholesterol
        x  524 mg sodium
 
  1.  In large skillet, combine potatoes with enough salted water to
  cover. Heat to boiling; simmer until tender. about 12 minutes.  Dain;
  place in large bowl.
  
  2.  Halve sausage lengthwise; cut crosswise into 1/2 inch diagonal
  slices.
   In skillet used to cook potatoes, saute' sausage over medium-heat
  until browned, about 10 minutes.  With slotted spoon, transfer to
  bowl with potatoes; add tomatoes.
  
  3.  In small bowl, combine vinegar, pesto, and 1/2 t freshly ground
  pepper; mix.  Add to potato mixture; toss.  Serve warm or at room
  temperature.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38882
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:49 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Saltimbocca
 Categories: Poultry, Italian, Turkey
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Turkey cutlets; 3/8" thick
      4 sl Prosciutto; folded in half
           -or 2 thin slices of boiled
           -ham, halved
      4 sl Muenster cheese
      8    Sage leaves, fresh, juliennd

MMMMM----------------HUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  128 calories
        x  8 g fat
        x  0 carbohydrate
        x  11 g fat
        x  40 mg cholesterol
        x  295 mg sodium
 
  In large skillet, melt butter over medium-high heat.  Sprinkle
  cutlest with 1/8 t pepper; add to hot butter, pepper side down.  Cook
  1 minute. Turn over; top with prosciutto, cheese and sage.  Cover
  cook 1 minute or until cheese melts.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38884
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:49 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Snapper with Tomato Relish
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Tapenade; (olive paste,
           -available at speciality
           -food shops
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      6    Snapper fillets; skinned
           -3 1/4 lbs
      2    Tomatoes; seeded, diced
      2 tb Fresh basil; chopped

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  209 calories
        x  40 g protein
        x  3 g carbohydrate
        x  3 g fat
        x  71 mg cholesterol
        x  317 mg sodium
 
  1.  In cup, combine tapenade and mustard; mix well.
  
  2.  Preheat oven to 500F.  Grease jellyroll pan.  Fold ends of fillets
  under so each fillet forms a square; place in pan.  Spread tapenade
  mixture over fillets; bake 15 minutes or until cooked through.
  
  3.  Meanwhile, in medium bowl, combine tomatoes, basil and 1/4 t each
  salt and pepper; mix.  Spoon over fillets.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38885
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:49 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Spaghetti Squash with Mozzarella
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Spaghetti squash (3 lb)
      4 tb Unsalted butter; cut in bits
      5 lg Cloves garlic; peeled, halve
      4 oz Smoked or plain mozzarella
           -cut into 1/4 inch dice
      1 c  Basil leaves; packed finely
           -shredded

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  157 calories
        x  5 g protein
        x  9 g carbohyrate
        x  12 g fat
        x  36 mg cholesterol
        x  265 mg sodium
 
  1.  Prehead oven to 375F.  Halve squash lengthwise.  Scoop out and
  discard seeds.  Place cut side up in baking pan; add butter and
  garlic to hollow centers.  Sprinkle with 1/2 t salt and 1/4 t pepper.
  Cover thightly with foil; bake 1 1/2 hours or until very tneder. (To
  microwave:  With fork, pierce whole squash severl times.  Place in
  glass baking dish.  Cook in HIGH 18 minutes, turing squash every 4
  minutes.  Let stand 5 minutes. Place butter in small glass bowl; melt
  on HIGH 30 seconds.  Add garlic; cok on HIGH 1 minutes; with fork,
  mash.  Halve squash lengthwise; seed.)
  
  2.  Remove squash from oven; discard foil.  With fork, transfer
  garlic to small bowl; mash.  With fork, comb squash strands into
  large bowl.  Add mashed garlic, cheese and basil; toss.  Season to
  taste with additional salt and pepper.  If deisred, sprinkle with
  freshly grated Parmesan cheese.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38886
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:49 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Double-Berry Shortcakes
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Unsifted self-rising flour
    1/4 c  Sugar
  2 1/3 c  Heavy cream
      2 pt Strawberries, hulled
      1 c  Blueberries

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  601 calories
        x  7 g protein
        x  69 g carbohydrate
        x  35 g fat
        x  125 mg cholesterol
        x  566 mg sodium
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 425F.  In medium bowl, combine flour and 1/4 cu
  sugar; add 1 1/3 cu heavy cream.  With fork, stir until soft dough
  begins to form a ball.  Turn out onto lightly floured surface; knead
  gently 4 times.  Pat into 10x3 inch strip; cut crosswise into 6
  lengths.  Place on heavy baking sheet.  Bake 15 mintues or until
  light borwn.  Cool on wire rack.
  
  2.  In medium saucepan, place 1 cup strawberries; with potato masher
  or fork, mash.  Reserve 2 T sugar; add remainder to mashed
  strawberries. Heat to boiling; boil 1 minute.  Pour into medium bowl;
  chill thoroughly.
  
  3.  Slice remaining strawberries; add to cooled mashed berries.  Add
  blueberries; mix.
  
  4.  In small bowl of electric mixer, at high speed, whip remaining
  cream with reserved sugar until soft peaks form.
  
  5.  To serve:  Split shortcakes horizontally, fill with berries and
  whipped cream.  Replace tops.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38887
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:50 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa Pasta Ole'
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Farfalle pasta; (bow ties)
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      2 bn Scallions; cut into 3 inch
           -julienne
    3/4 c  Bottled hot or medium salsa
      4 oz Jack cheese; shredded or
           -Montery Jack cheese

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  371 calories
        x  16 g protein
        x  51 g carbohydrate
        x  12 g fat
        x  25 mg cholesterol
        x  211 mg sodium
 
  1.  In large saucepan, in boiling, salted water, cook pasta as package
  label directs, until al dente.
  
  2.  Meanwhile, in medium skillet, heat oil over medium-high heat; in
  batches, fry scallions until crisp and beginning to brown, about 2
  minutes each batch.  Drain on paper towels.
  
  3.  Drain pasta; return to saucepan.  Add salsa and cheese; toss to
  coat. Plce in serving bowl; to with ffried scallions.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993. Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38889
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:50 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomatoe-Cheese Calzones
 Categories: Sandwich, Sausage, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Mozzarella cheese; grated
           -partly skim
  5 1/2 oz Goat cheese; crumbled
    1/4 lb Hard salami; diced
    1/2 c  Sun-dried tomatoes in oil;
           -drained will, chopped
      2 lb Pizza dough; thawed if froz.

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  590 calories
        x  29 g protein
        x  72 g carbohydrate
        x  20 g fat
        x  60 mg cholesterol
        x  648 mg sodium
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 450F.  In medium bowl, combine cheese, salmi and
  tomatoes; toss.
  
  2.  Divide dough into 6 pieces.  On floured surface, with floured
  rolling pin, roll each piece of douth into 7 inch round.  Top left
  half of each round with cheese mixture, dividing evenly.  Moisten
  edges with water; fold right side of dough over so edges meet.  Press
  edges to seal; crimp. Place on large baking sheet; with scissors,
  make three 1/2 inch slits in top of each.
  
  3.  Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until well-browned.  Cool briefly before
  serving.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38892
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,08:51 From:
  LAWRENCE KELLIE To: ALL Subject: RECIPE Flags:
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Cajun Pork
 Categories: Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Boneless pork chops
      1 tb Cajun seasoning
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 lg Red onions; sliced
    1/2 c  Bottled barbecue sauce

MMMMM----------------NUTRITIONAL INFORMATION/SERV---------------------
        x  252 calories
        x  24 g protein
        x  10 g carbohydrate
        x  13 g fat
        x  72 mg cholesterol
        x  401 mg sodium
 
  1.  Rub both sides of pork chops with Cajun seasoning.  Refrigerate
  covered 1 hour to marinate.
  
  2.  In large skillet, heat 1 T oil over medium-high heat.  Add
  onions; over medium heat, saute' until well-browned and soft, about
  15 minutes. Add sauce; mix.  Over low heat, cook 5 minutes.  Remove
  to bowl; keep warm.
  
  3.  In same skillet, heat remaining 1 T oil over medium-high heat.
  Add pork chopes; cook until borwned and just cook throuhg, about 3
  minutes each side.  Serve topped with onion mixture.
  
  From:  McCall's August 1993 Happy Charring
  
  ~-- EZPoint V2.2 * Origin: "LaRK's" Place (1:343/26.3)
  
  |OLX$SOM| BBS: SWCREATE Conference: 46,COOKING Number: 38976
  Reply-to: 0 Private: No Receipt: No Date: 1993-07-26,00:09 From:
  STUART TALKOFSKY To: ALL Subject: FANCY TUNA SANDWICH Flags:
  
  I saw this in Parade Magazine the other day. Don't have time to make
  this. Probably time consuming but enjoyable to make if you have the
  time or the weather (who wants to be indoors cooking in the Summer?)
  Don't make this for the creep who puts ketchup on everything.
  Wouldn't it be annoying after spending so much time cooking someone
  throws some unwanted condiment onto the food? Enjoy!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Muffins From Helen Kemp
 Categories: Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    2/3 c  Dry milk
      1 ts Pumpkin pie spice
      1 ts Cinnamon
      8 pk Equal or Sweet and Low
      1 ts Baking soda
      7 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Grated carrot
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Pumpkin
      1 ts Vanilla
      4 tb Raisins
 
  1. Spray 12 muffin tin with non fat spray. 2. Mix all ingredients
  together. Fill muffin tin. Bake at 375F for 20 minutes. Weight
  Watchers Info: 6 muffins = 1 Bread, 1 Protein, 1 Vegetable, 1 Fat, 1
  Milk
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chris Perry's Pasta Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2    Red onion, chopped
    1/2    Green pepper, chopped
      6 oz Sliced pepperoni, cut in
           -halves or quarters
      4 oz Shredded cheddar cheese
      1 sm Tomato, cubed
    1/2 cn Chopped black olives (small)
           Presto Italian dressing
      1    Box Three colored pasta
 
  1.  Cook and chill pasta. Add vegetables and other ingredients.
  
  2.  About 1 hour before serving, add dressing and toss. Toss before
      serving.
  
  3.  Salt and season to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chris Perry's Cold Pea Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Frozen tiny peas, thawed
    1/2    Red onion, chopped
      4 oz Shredded cheddar cheese
           Real bacon bits
           Ranch dressing
 
  Mix all together, and serve chilled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brigitte's German Cabbage Casserole
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Cabbage
  1 3/8 oz Margarine
  1 3/8 oz Flour
  2 1/8 c  Water
      1 ts Capers
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  Milk
  8 7/8 oz Ground beef
      1 sl Bread
      1    Egg
      1    Onion, finely chopped
      1 pn Salt
      1 pn Pepper
 
  Loosen cabbage leaves by putting the whole head into boiling water
  until the leaves come off. Cut off the hard stem parts, and put the
  leaves in boiling salted water one at a time until they are partialy
  cooked.
  
  Mix the meat, bread, salt, pepper, egg and onion together. Make a
  white gravy out of the margarine, flour, water, and milk. Season with
  salt and pepper and add capers. You can also use tomato sauce for a
  change.
  
  Grease the bottom and sides of a large casserole dish. Layer in the
  cabbage, meat and gravy alternately. Top with cabbage. Cover and bake
  at 375F for 45-60 minutes.
  From:  Brigitte Sealing, Cyberealm BBS, Watertown NY 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brigitte's Filled Cucumbers
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Cucumbers
      1 pn Salt
  8 7/8 oz Ground beef
      1 tb Vinegar
  2 1/8 oz Bacon
      1 sm Onion
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Cornstarch
           Vinegar, salt and sugar to
           -taste
 
  Peel cucumbers and cut in half, scooping out the seeds. Rub with salt
  and vinegar. Fill with the meat mixed with seasonings and put the
  halves together fastening with a string or baking needles.
  Brown the bacon and finely chopped onion in the butter in a deep
  skillet or casserole dish. Put in the cucumbers; fill the skillet or
  dish with hot water (not too much or they will give up much fluids)
  and cook until they are soft. Take the cucumbers out and season and
  thicken the gravy with cornstarch. Cooking time is about 30 min.
  From:  Brigitte Sealing, Cyberealm BBS Watertown, NY 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Howard Karten's Salsa
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Tomatoes
           Chopped scallions to taste
    1/4 md Chopped red onion
     10    Quartered black olives
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Red wine vinegar
           Chopped red pepper
           Chopped green pepper
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Ground cumin
      1 ts Garlic
      1 ts Oregano
           Ground red peppers to taste
           Cayenne pepper to taste
 
  1.  Skin tomatoes, remove seeds, chop the fles moderately fine and
  put in a large saucepan.
  
  2.  Add remaining ingredients, mix thoroughly, refrigerate and serve.
  
  "You can add any kinda vegetable you want to this."
  
  From: Howard Karten, Rime Cuisine Conference Moderator Channel 1 BBS,
  Cambridge, Mass. 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit and Nut Ginger Bread From Mary Killen
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Flour
      6 oz Margarine
      6 oz Soft brown sugar
      6 oz Sultanas (raisins)
      2 oz Chopped almonds
      4 tb Treacle (molasses)
      2 tb Buttermilk
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Ground ginger
      2    Eggs
 
  1. Sift flour with baking soda and spices. Cream margarine and sugar,
  add treacle and mix well. Beat in eggs a little at a time with the
  flour mixture, and add buttermilk to form a soft consistency. Stir in
  fruit and nuts. Turn mixture into a well greased and lined 2 lb. loaf
  tin. Bake at 160C (320F, gas mark 3) for 75 minutes.
  
  From:  Mary Killen, Clough, Co. Down, Northern Ireland  1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rich Boiled Fruit Cake From Mary Killen
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Flour
      6 oz Margarine
      6 oz Sugar
      4 oz Currants
      4 oz Raisins
      4 oz Sultanas
      1 ts Mixed spices
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 pt Water
      2    Large eggs
 
  Place margarine, sugar, fruit and water into saucepan. Bring to a
  boil and simmer for approximately 10 minutes. Leave to cool. Sieve
  flour, spices, and baking soda and add to contents of saucepan. Beat
  eggs into mixture and pour into a greased and lined 7" square baking
  pan. Bake at 160C (320F, gas mark 3) for 75 minutes.
  
  From:  Mary Killen, Clough, Co. Down, Northern Ireland -- 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Super Bowl Salsa
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 cn 28 oz whole peeled tomatoes
           And juice, chopped
      3 c  Thinly sliced celery
      1 cn 19 oz chick peas, pureed
      1 md Cucumber, peeled and diced
      1 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
      1 cn 4 oz chopped green chiles
      2 tb Fresh lime juice
      1 tb Vinegar
    1/2 tb Sugar
      2 cl Garlic, chopped
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Oregano
 
  In a large glass bowl, combine all. Cover and refrigerate until ready
  to serve.
  
  Source: Cooking with Regis and Kathie Lee cookbook 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: James Darren's Grandmom's Pasta
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10 oz Italian sausage
      2 ts Water
      1    Jar James Darren's Pasta
           Sauce with basil and garlic
           Or any pasta sauce
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      1 lb Rigatoni, cooked
           Fresh grated Parmesan cheese
 
  1. Remove sausage from casing and crumble into a large saucepot. Add
  the water and cook over low heat for 20 minutes, or until it is
  cooked. Drain off fat. Add pasta sauce and simmer for 5 minutes. Stir
  in cream.
  
  2. Serve pasta sauce over cooked rigatoni and top with cheese.
  
  Source: "Cooking with Regis and Kathie Lee", 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jalapeno Casserole
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn 7 oz green chiles, drained
      3 c  Shredded Monterey Jack
           Cheese and/or cheddar cheese
      2 md Tomatoes, peeled & sliced
      4 lg Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Evaporated milk
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
           Sliced avocado and sour
           Cream for garnish
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350F. Lightly butter an 11x7 glass baking pan.
  
  2. Arrange the chilies on the bottom of the casserole. Top with an
  even layer of the cheese and then the sliced tomatoes.
  
  3. In a large bowl, whisk the eggs until they are frothy. Gradually
  whisk in the evaporated milk, flour and salt. Carefully pour over the
  layers in the dish. Bake 50-60 minutes, or until lightly browned.
  Serve in squares and garnish with sour cream and avocado slices.
  
  Source: "Cooking with Regis and Kathie Lee", 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Christmas Tiramisu
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 lb Mascarpone or soft cream
           Cheese
    3/4 c  Sugar
      8 lg Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Sweet wine
      2 c  Expresso or very strong
           Black coffee (approx)
      9 oz Ladyfingers or 14 oz. angel
           Food or sponge cake, thinly
           Sliced
      1 tb Unsweetened cocoa
 
  1. In a small bowl, using a fork, beat the cheese until creamy. Set
  aside.
  
  2. Place a large (about 10-12 cups capacity) metal bowl over a pot of
  boiling water. Using a hand-held electric mixer set on medium high,
  beat the sugar and egg yolks in the bowl for 1 minute, or until the
  mixture is well blended. With the mixer set on low speed to prevent
  splashing, gradually add the wine. Continue to cook and beat the
  mixture, increasing the speed to medium and then to high as the
  mixture thickens. Cook and beat for 5-7 minutes, or until the mixture
  is thickened and light, scraping down the sides of the bowl
  frequently with a rubber spatula.
  
  3. Remove the bowl from the heat and continue to beat the mixture for
  1 minute longer. Beat in the cheese just until blended (makes about 5
  cups).
  
  4. Pour one cup of the expresso into a small shallow bowl that is
  large enough to hold a ladyfinger if it is placed horizontally in the
  bowl.
  
  5. Quickly dip the rounded top side of each ladyfinger into the
  expresso. Only the top half of the ladyfingers should be soaked with
  the expresso. If the ladyfingers get too wet, they will fall apart!
  Add more coffee to the bowl as needed.
  
  6. Place the ladyfingers, flat side down, in the bottom of a 13 x 9
  glass or ceramic pan. Do not use a metal pan. Form one layer. Pour
  half of the custard mixture over the ladyfingers and spread to cover
  them. Dip the remaining ladyfingers in the expresso (there will be a
  few remaining ones and form a second layer over the custard mixture.
  Pour the remaining custard mixture over the ladyfingers and spread to
  an even layer.
  
  7. Place the cocoa in a strainer and dust the top of the tiramisu
  evenly. Cover and refrigerate for at least 10 hours.
  
  Makes: 10-12 servings.
  
  Source: "Cooking with Regis and Kathie Lee", 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Real Whipped Cream
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  1. The cream, a small bowl, and beaters should be thoroughly chilled
  before starting.
  
  2. Beat cream with electric mixer until soft peaks form.
  
  3. Blend in sugar and vanilla and beat until stiff peaks form.  Do Not
  Overbeat!
  
  From the kitchen of Lois Flack
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Apples
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 lg Baking apples
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
     12 tb Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Butter
 
  1. Wash and core apples, then remove a 1 inch strip of peel around the
  middle of each apple.
  
  2. Place apples in a 2 quart square baking dish.
  
  3. Mix sugar, and spices in a small bowl.
  
  4. Fill center of each apple with mixture and dot with 1/4 ts. butter.
  
  5. Add enough water to baking dish to cover the bottom of the dish.
  
  6. Bake uncovered, at 350 until apples are tender.  Baste with glaze
  occasionaly.
  
  Serve warm, covered with some of the baking glaze and real whipped
  cream.
  
  *** 1/2 c of raisins can be added to the sugar and spice mixture. ***
  
  Tip:  McIntosh or Granny Smith apples are great for this.
  
  From the kitchen of Lois FLack.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lots O' Apple Cake - the Pillsbury Cookbook
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  All purpose flour
      1 c  Whole whear flour
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      5 c  Apples, peeled & sliced thin
           (approximately 5 apples)
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Honey
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
 
  1.  Heat oven to 350F.
  
  2.  Grease and flour bottom only of 13x9-inch pan.
  
  3.  In large bowl, combine all ingredients except nut at low speed
  until
     moistened; beat 2 minutes at medium speed.
  
  4.  Stir in nuts.
  
  5.  Spread batter in prepared pan.
  
  6.  Bake at 350F for 40 to 50 minutes or until toothpick inserted in
     center comes out clean.
  
      Serve warm or cool with whipped cream, ice cream, butter sauce, or
     carmel sauce, if desired.
  
  *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *
     * Nutrients Per 1/12 of Recipe:
  
  Calroies......................350    Dietary
  Fiber.....................3 g Protein.......................5 G
    Sodium.........................375 mg
  Carbohydrates................53 g
    Potassium......................145 mg
  Fat..........................14 g    Calcium...................2%
  U.S. RDA Cholesterol.............. ..45 mg
    Iron......................6% U.S. RDA
  
  From the kitchen of Lois Flack
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sauce - the Pillsbury Cookbook
 Categories: Dessert, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Half-and-half or evap. milk
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 ts Rum extract (if desired)
 
    In small sauce pan, combine all ingredients; heat just to boiling,
  stirring occasionally.
  
    Serve warm. 1 1/2 cups.
  
  *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *
     *
  
  Nutrients Per 1 Tablespoon:
  
  Calroies..........................80   Dietary
  Fiber..................0 g Protein..........................0 g
   Sodium.......................40 mg
  Carbohydrate.....................9 g
   Potassium....................10 mg
  Fat..............................5 g   Calcium..............< 2% U.S.
  RDA Cholesterol....................15 mg   Iron.................< 2%
  U.S. RDA
  
  From the kitchen of Lois Flack
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Carmel Sauce - the Pillsbury Cookbook
 Categories: Dessert, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Half-and-half
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      6 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  1. In medium saucepan, combine sugar, 1/2 cup of the half-and-half,
  corn
    syrup and butter.
  
  2. Bring to a full boil.
  
  3. Graadually add remaining half-and-half.  BE SURE BOILING DOES NOT
  STOP!
  
  4. Cook over medium heat to soft ball stage (230F.), stirring
    occasionally.
  
  5. Remove from heat; stir in vanilla.
  
     Serve warm over ice cream or cake.   2 cups.
  
  *     *     *     *     *     *     *     *    *     *     *     *
     *
  
  Nutrients Per 1 Tablespoon:
  
  Calories.........................80   Dietary
  Fiber....................0 g Protein.........................0 g
   Sodium.........................35 mg
  Carbohydrate...................13 g
   Potassium......................10 mg
  Fat.............................3 g   Calcium................< 2%
  U.S. RDA Cholesterol....................8 mg
   Iron...................< 2% U.S. RDA
  
  From the kitchen of Lois Flack.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Oatmeal Chewies - From Crisco
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert
      Yield: 36 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Butter Flavor Crisco
      1 c  Granulated sugar
    2/3 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
    1/4 c  Honey
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Quick-cooking oats
           Not instant or old-fashioned
      1 c  Flake coconut
      1 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Walnut pieces broken
    1/2 c  Wheat germ (optional)
 
  1.  Heat oven to 350F.
  
  2.  Cream Butter Flavor Crisco, granulated sugar, brown sugar, honey,
  egg,
    milk and vanilla until light and fluffy.
  
  3.  Combine flour, baking soda and salt.   Mix into creamed mixture.
  
  4.  Stir in oats, coconut, raisins, wheat germ, and walnuts.
  
  5.  Drop rounded teaspoonsfuls of dough on ungreased baking sheet.
  Bake
    at 350F for 11 to 12 minutes for soft cookies, 13 to 14 minutes for
    crisp cookies.  Remove to cooling rack.
  
    6 dozen cookies
  
    From the kitchen of Lois Flack
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick & Easy Boston Cream Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
           (single layer size)
      1    Egg
           Water
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      1 pk Vanilla pudding (regular)
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 cn Chocolate frosting
 
  1.  Prepare the cake mix using the egg, water, and lemon extract,
    following label directions.  Pour into a greased and floured 8-inch
  round
    cake pan.(9-inch is too large and causes cake to be too flat.)
  
  2.  Bake at 350F for time indicated on the cake package, or until the
    center of the cake springs back when lightly touched.  Cool cake in
  pan
    on rack for 10 minutes.  Remove from pan and cool completely.
  
  3.  Prepare pudding mix with milk and vanilla and cook according to
    package directions.  Cover with plastic wrap to prevent skin from
    forming on top and cool completely.
  
  4.  Split layer cake, fill with cooled vanilla pudding, put cake back
    together and then frost with enough chocolate frosting to cover the
    top. Store in refrigerator.
  
  From the kitchen of Lois FLack.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Apple Pandowdy-Family Circle *I.l.c.
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Apples
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Butter
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1    Egg, well-beaten
  2 1/2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      3 c  Apples, sliced & pared
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon, ground
      2 c  Sweetened whipped cream
 
  1.  Cream  butter and add sugar gradually.  When well combined, mix
  in the
    egg.
  
  2.  Sift together flour, baking powder and salt and add alternately
  with
    the milk.
  
  3.  Spread apples in the bottom of a shallow, well-buttered
    ovenproof-china baking dish.
  
  4.  Mix together brown sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle over apples.
  Pour
    batter over the top, spreading it evenly.
  
  5.  Bake at 350F for about 50 minutes.  Let stand for 10 minutes
  after
    removing from oven.  To serve, invert on serving platter or serve
    directly from baking dish.
  
  Note:  A buttered baking pan or dish, 9x9x2, works equally well.
  
  Serve with sweetened whipped cream
  
  Submitted by Lois Flack
  
  *Family Circle Illustrated Library of Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Heath Bar Crunch Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Heath Bars
      2 lg Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 c  Whole wilk
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Using a sharp knife, cut the candy bars into 1/2 to 1 inch chunks. You
  should have about 1 cup. Place the chucks in a bowl, cover and freeze.
  Whisk the egg in a mixing bowl until lihgt and fluffy, 1-2 minutes.
  Whisk in the sugar, a little at a time, then continue to whisk until
  completely blended, about 1 minute more. Pour in the cream, milk,
  vanilla, and whisk to blend. Tranfer the mixture to ice cream maker
  and freeze following manufactorer's instructions. After the ice cream
  stiffens (about 2 minutes before it is done) add the candy, then
  continue freezing until the ice cream is ready. Makes generous 1
  quart.
   Variation: COFFEE HEATH BAR CRUNCH: Omit vanilla and substitute 3
  tb. good quality freeae-dried coffee. Add 2 tb coffe with the cream
  and milk, and add the remaining 1 tbls coffee with the candy( after
  the ice cream stiffens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Crush Sherbet
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      6 cn Orange soda, 12 oz each
     20 oz Crushed pineapple
 
  Combine sweetened condensed milk, orange soda and pineapple in bowl;
  mix well. Chill overnight. Pour into ice cream freezer container.
  Freeze according to manufacturer's instructions. Yield: 16 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mango Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Mango
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/3 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Half & half
      1    Egg yolk; beaten
      2 tb Light corn syrup
 
  Peel mango. Cut pulp from seed; discard seed. In blender or food
  processor fitted with metal blade, puree mango pulp with lemon juice.
  In medium saucepan, combine cornstarch and sugar. Stir in half and
  half, beaten egg yolk and corn syrup. Cook and stir over medium heat
  until bubbly; cook 1 minute longer. Cool. Stir in pureed mango. Pour
  into ice cream canister. Freeze in ice cream maker according to
  manufacturer's directions. Makes about 1 quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Never on Sunday Chocolate Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Heavy cream
      2 c  Half & half
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Unsweetened Cocoa powder
  2 1/2 oz Semi-sweet chocolate; chop
      6    Eggs; well-beaten
    1/2 c  Jack daniels whiskey
 
  Bring cream and half and half to a simmer in a large heavy saucepan.
  Add sugar and cocoa; stir utnil sugar dissolves. remove from heat. Add
  choclate, stir until smooth. Gradually whisk 1/2 cup chocolate
  mixture into eggs. Return mixture to saucepan. Stir over medium-low
  heat for 10-15 minutes or until mixture thickenes and coats the back
  of a spoon. Strain into bowl. Cool mixture completely, stirring
  often. Stir whiskey into custard. Pour into a 1 quart ice cream
  churn. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions. Store in a
  covered container for several hours to mellow the flavor. If ice
  cream is frozen solid, soften in refrigerator before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Razzle Dazzle Raspberry Sherbet
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Egg whites
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Half & half
      3 c  Raspberries in syrup; pureed
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Beat egg whites until stiff, but not dry. Gradually beat in sugar,
  then milk, half and half, raspberries, lemon juice. Cover,
  refrigerate 30 minutes. Freeze as directed. Makes 2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate, Dessert
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2 c  Milk
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Half & Half
      1 tb Vanilla Extract
      4 c  Whipping Cream
           Pillsbury Chocolate Chip
           - Cookie Dough (large size)
           - OR homeade cookie dough
 
  Take the chocolate cookie dough out of fridge and leave out till
  needed. Scald milk until bubbles form around edge. Remove from heat.
  Add sugar and salt. Stir until dissolved. Stir in half and half,
  vanilla, and whipping cream. Cover and refrigerate 30 minutes. Freeze
  as directed by your ice cream machine's instructions. Once ice cream
  has been through the entire ice cream machine process and is now a
  chilled soft ice cream, add the chocolate chip cookie dough. Just
  break up the dough as best you can with your hands and drop it in
  small clusters into the soft ice cream. Try to mix it around to
  ensure that the cookie dough is evenly distributed throughout the ice
  cream. Put the ice cream in the freezer for several hours until
  hardened. Origin: We pretty much took our vanilla ice cream recipe
  and added the chocolate chip cookie dough. You can easily use the
  Pillsbury cookie dough, but it's cheaper and better to use homemade.
  Our Mrs. Field's Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough recipe makes this
  especially yummy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's New York Super Fudge Chunk
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  White chocolate; chop coarse
    1/4 c  Semisweet chocoate; chop
    1/4 c  Pecan halves; chopped
    1/4 c  Walnuts; chop coarse
    1/4 c  Chocolate covered almonds;
           - cut in half
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 c  Milk
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 pn Salt
 
  Combine the coarsely chopped chocolate, pecans, walnuts and chocolate
  covered almonds in a bowl, cover and refrigerate. Melt the unsweetened
  chocolate in the top of a double boiler over hot, not boiling water.
  Whisk in the milk, a little at a time, and heat, stirring constantly,
  until smooth. Remove from the heat and let cool. Whisk the eggs in a
  mixing bowl until light and fluffy, 1-2 minutes. Whisk in the sugar,
  a little at a time, then continue whisking until completely blended,
  about 1 minute more. Add the cream, vanilla and salt and whisk to
  blend. Pour the chocolate mixture into the cream mixture and blend.
  Cover and refrigerate until cold, about 1-3 hours, depending on your
  refrigerator. Transfer the cream mixture to an ice cream maker and
  freeze following the manufacturer's instructions. After the ice cream
  stiffens (about 2 minutes before it is done), add the chocolate and
  nuts, then continue freezing until the ice cream is ready.
  
  Makes one Generous Quart. Note: "New York Super Fudge Chunk was
  developed as a regional flavor for the sophisticated New York palate.
  After coming up with several variations in our Burlington lab,we
  packed the samples in dry ice and shipped them by bus to our New york
  consultants, a group of musicians on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
  Following several weeks of refinement and discussion, we all agreed
  on this final recipe- a chocolate lover's dream."
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frozen Cinnamon Nut Yogurt
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Vanilla yogurt
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
           Salt
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Walnut pieces
 
  Thoroughly combine yogurt, sugar, cinnamon and salt in mixing bowl.
  Stir in whipping cream and vanilla. Add nuts. Cover and refrigerate
  30 minutes. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bon Bon Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    9" cookie pie crust
  1 1/4 pk Nestles Bon Bon Ice Cream
           - nuggets
      1 pk Instant vanilla pudding
  1 3/4 c  Milk
           Green food coloring
      1 ts Peppermint extract
           Chocolate; melted
           Whipping topping
 
  Cover bottom of 9" chocolate cookie crust with 1 1/4 boxes of Nestles
  Bon Bon Ice Cream Nuggets. Mix instant vanilla pudding mix with milk,
  food coloring and peppermint extract. Spoon over Bon Bons and freeze
  5 hours. Decorate with melted chocolate, whipped topping and more Bon
  Bon nuggets.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Snowball Cocoa
 Categories: Beverage, Ice cream, Chocolate, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pt Vanilla ice cream
      1 c  Coconut, flaked
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      1 qt Milk
    1/2 c  Dark rum (optional)
      1 c  Cream of coconut
      1 ts Coconut extract
    1/2 c  Chocolate ice cream suace
      8    Marachino cherries
 
  Scoop ice cream into 8 small balls, immedaitely roll in coconut.
  Place on waxed paper-lined baking sheets; freeze until ready to use.
  Whisk cocoa into milk in a large suacepan. stir in rum, if desired,
  cream of coconut and coconut extract.Bring to simmer over medium-high
  heat. Pour into 8 large heatproof mugs. Float ice cream balls in
  cocoa. If desired, drizzle ice cream ball with chocolate sauce and
  top with a cherry.Makes 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Sweet Cream Base #1
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lg Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 c  Milk
 
  This is Ben and Jerry's most popular base, has creamy texture, medium
  body, and a subtle, understated taste. It's especially good as a
  background for fruit,cookies and candy. Whisk the eggs in a mxing
  bowl until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Whisk in the sugar, a
  little at a time, then continue to whisk until completely blended,
  about 1 minute more. Pour in the cream and milk and whisk to blend.
  Makes 1 quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Sweet Cream Base #2
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
    3/4 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Half & half
 
  This simple recipe is made with a minimum of ingredients and requires
  no cooking. It makes a very creamy ice cream with 25% butterfat, but
  it does not store well in home freezers, so be prepared to eat it
  all!! Pour the cream into a mixing bowl. Whisk in the sugar, a lttle
  at a time, then continue whisking until completely blended, about 1
  minute more. Pour the half and half and whisk to blend. Makes 1 quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Sweet Cream Base #3
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Light cream
      1 c  Sweetened condensed milk;
           - cold
 
  This recipe makes a less creamy, less rich ice cream. Ben likes the
  slightly cooked flavor of the sweetened condensed milk. Whisk the
  light cream and the sweetened condensed milk together in a mixing
  bowl until blended. Makes 1 quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Fresh Georgia Peach Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Ripe peaches; finely chopped
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2    Juice of lemon
      2 lg Eggs
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 c  Milk
 
  The best way to capture the elusive flavore of summertime. Ben and
  Jerry prefer small peaches because they have more flavor and less
  water than the larger ones. Combine the peaches, 1/2 cup of the
  sugar, and the lemon juice in a bowl. Cover and refrigerate for 2
  hours, stirring the mixture every 30 minutes. Remove the peaches from
  the refrigerator and drain the juice into another bowl. Return the
  peaches to the refrigerator. Whisk the eggs in a mxing bowl until
  light and fluffy, 1-2 minutes. Whisk in the remaining 3/4 cup sugar,
  a little at a time, then continue whisking until completely blended,
  about 1 minute more. Pour in the cream and milk and whisk to blend.
  Add the peach juice and blend. Transfer the mixture to an ice cream
  maker and freeze following manufacturer's instructions. After the ice
  cream stiffens (about 2 minutes before if is sone) add the peaches,
  then continue freezing until the ice cream is ready. Makes 1 generous
  quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Raspberry Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Fresh raspberries
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2    Lemon; juice of
      2 lg Eggs
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 c  Milk
 
  Compare to other fresh fruit, raspberries are intensely flavorful and
  very tart, so to make ice cream you need less fruit and more sugar.
  Toss the raspberries, 3/4 cup sugar, and the lemon juice together in
  a bowl. Cover and refrigerate for 2 hours, stirring every 30 minutes.
  Whisk the eggs in a mixing bowl until light and fluffy, 1-2 minutes.
  Whisk in thr remaining 3/4 cup sugar, a little at a time, then
  continue whisking until completely blended, about 1 minute more. Pour
  in the heavy cream and milk and whisk to blend. Drain the juice from
  the raspberries into the cream mixture and blend. Mash the
  raspberries until pureed and stir them into the cream mixture.
  Transfer the mixture to an ice cream maker and freeze following the
  manufacturer's instructions. Makes 1 generous quart.
   NOTE: If you prefer a chunkier raspberry ice cream, return the
  raspberries to the refrigerator after pouring off the juice. After
  the ice cream stiffens, about 2 minutes before it is done, add the
  whole raspberries.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Oreo Mint Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Oreo's; coarsely chopped
      2 lg Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 c  Milk
      2 ts Peppermint extract
 
  Ben and Jerry have been making Oreo Mint ever since they opened their
  first store in the gas station. it was their top-selling flavor for a
  long time and was only recently nudged out of first place by Heath
  Bar Crunch. Place the cookies in a bowl, cover and refrigerate. Whisk
  the eggs in a mxing bowl until light and fluffy, 1-2 minutes. Whisk
  in the sugar, a little at a time, then continue whisking until
  completely blended, about 1 minute more. Pour in the cream and milk
  and whisk to blend. add the peppermint extract and blend again.
  Transfer the mixture to an ice cream maker and freeze following
  manufacturer's instructions. After the ice cream stiffens, about 2
  minutes before it is done, add the chopped cookies, then continue
  freezing until the ice cream is ready. Makes 1 generous quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben's Chocolate Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
      1 c  Milk
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 pn Salt
 
  Ben's Chocolate Ice Cream is about as rich as they come. The pinch of
  salt helps to bring out the chocolate flavor. Melt the unsweetened
  chocolate in the top of a double boiler over hot, not boiling water.
  Gradually whisk in the milk and heat, stirring constantly, until
  smooth. Remove from the heat and let cool. Whisk the eggs in a mixing
  bowl until light anf fluffy, 1-2 minutes. Whisk in the sugar, a
  little at a time, then continue whisking until completely blended,
  about 1 minute more. Add the cream, vanilla and salt and whisk to
  blend. Pour the chocolate mixture into the cream mixture and blend.
  Cover and refrigerate until cold, about 1-3 hours, depending on your
  refrigerator. Transfer the mixture to an ice cream maker and freeze
  following the manufacturer's instructions. Makes 1 generous quart.
   VARIATION: Chocolate Almond- Add 1 cup roasted whole almonds (salted
  or unsalted) after the ice cream stiffens, about 2 minutes before it
  is done, then continue to freeze until the ice cream is ready.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jerry's Chocolate Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Heavy or whipping cream
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  The combination of cocoa powder and unsweetened chocolate creates an
  ice cream with a more complex testure.Jerry refers to this as
  "mouthfeel". Melt the unsweetened chocolate in the top of a double
  boiler over hot, not boiling water. Gradually whisk in the cocoa and
  heat, stirring constantly, until smooth. ( the chocolate may "seize"
  or clump together. Don't worry, the milk will dissovle it). Whisk in
  the milk, a little at a time, and heat until completely blended.
  remove from the heat and let cool. Whisk the eggs in a mixing bowl
  until light and fluffy, 1-2 minutes. Whisk in the sugar, a little at
  a time, then continue whisking until completely blended, about 1
  minute more. Pour in the cream and vanilla and whisk to blend. Pour
  the chocolate mixture into the cream mixture and blend. Cover and
  refrigerate until cold, about 1-3 hours, depending on your
  refrigerator. Transfer the mixture to an ice cream maker and freeze
  according to manufacturer's instructions.
   VARIATION: Chocolate Chocolate chip: Add 3/4 cup semisweet chocolate
  chips after the ice cream stiffens, about 2 minutes before it is
  done, then continue freezing until the ice cream is ready. The rick
  fully textured ice cream is a chocoholic's delight. Some of Ben and
  Jerry's friends take it a step further and serve it with hot fudge
  sauce!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Cantaloupe Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Cantaloupe, very ripe
      1    Lemon; juice of
           Sweet cream base #1
 
  This is one of Jerry's Favorite flavors, but they never figured out
  how to make it in large batches. It's sold only in their downtown
  store. Cut the cantaloupe in half and clean out the seeds. Scoop the
  fruit into a mixing bowl, add the lemon juice, and mash until the
  fruit is purred. Drain the juice into another bowl and reserve. Cover
  the melon puree and refrigerate. Prepare the sweet cream base and
  whisk in the fruit juice. Transfer the mixture to an ice cream maker
  and freeze following the manufacturer's instructions. After the ice
  cream stiffens, about 2 minutes before it is done, add the
  cantaloupe. if more juice has accumulated, do not pour it in because
  it will water down the ice cream. Continue freeziung until the ice
  cream is ready. Makes 1 generous quart.
   Variation: COCONUT CANTALOUPE: Use half the amount of cantaloupe and
  lemon juice asked for in step 1. Add 1 cup coconut cream, such as
  Coco Lopez, to the Sweet cream Base in step 2. Complete the recipe as
  directed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Orange Cream Dream Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Orange juice concentrate;
           - thawed
      2 ts Vanilla
           Sweet cream base
 
  This recipe for Orange Cream Dream is easy to make and very
  refreshing. it brings back memories of waiting for the ice cream man
  on warm summer evenings. Prepare the Sweet Cream Base. Add the juice
  concentrate and vanilla and blend. Transfer the mixture to an ice
  cream maker and freeze following the manufacturer's instructions.
  Makes one generous quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Kiwi Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Ripe kiwis
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
      2 c  Heavy or whipping cream
 
  Kiwi Ice Cream is one of Ben and Jerry's more exotic, subtle flavors
  for the true connoisseur. Peel the kiwis and mash them in a bowl
  until pureed. Stir 2 tablespoons sugar into the fruit, cover, and
  refrigerate 1 hour. Whisk the eggs in a mixing bowl until light and
  fluffy, 1-2 minutes. Whisk in 1 cup sugar, a little at a time, then
  continue whisking until completely blended, about 1 minute more. pour
  in the cream and whisk to blend. stir in the kiwis. Transfer the
  mixture to an ice cream Maker and freese following manufacturer's
  instructions. Makes 1 quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ben & Jerry's Plum Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Ripe plums; peeled, chopped
    1/4 c  Sugar
           Sweet cream Base
 
  If you really like plums, this is the flavor to try. The recipe works
  well with any variety of plum, as long as it's fresh ( and ripe!)
  Combine the plums and sugar in a bowl and mash until pureed. Cover
  and refrigerate 1 hour. Prepare the sweet Cream Base. Drain the juice
  from the plums into the cream base and blend. Return the plum puree
  to the refrigerator. Transfer the mixture to an ice cream maker and
  freeze following manufacturer's instructions. After the ice cream
  stiffens ( about 2 minutes before it is done) add the plum puree,
  then continue freezing until the ice cream is ready. Makes 1 generous
  quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Italian Ice
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Water
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
    3/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Combine water, sugar and lemon peel in medium saucepan. Bring to a
  boil on medium heat, stirring constantly. remove from heat and allow
  to cool.Pour mixture into canister of ice cream maker. stir in lemon
  juice. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions. Makes 1 quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Rum Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Chocolate, Microwave, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      2 c  Light cream; chilled
      1    Egg; slightly beaten
      2 oz Unsweeten baking chocolate;
           - (2 sq.) broken in pieces
    1/2 ts Rum extract
 
  In large microwave-safe bowl combine sugar and flour; gradually stir
  in milk. Blend in egg and baking chocolate pieces. Microwave at HIGH
  (100%) 2 to 2 1/2 minutes, stirring frequently, just until mixture
  boils and thickens. Add rum extract; blend with wire whisk until
  mixture is smooth. Chill thoroughly. Add light cream to chilled
  mixture; blend well. Freeze in 2-quart ice cream freezer according to
  manufacturer's directions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackberry Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Fresh Blackberries
      1 c  Water
           Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Whipping cream
           Blackberries for garnish
           Mint leaves for garnish
 
  Line strainer with two layers of dampened cheesecloth. Set over large
  bowl. Combine berries * and water in medium saucepan. Slowly bring to
  boil. Reduce heat and simmer gently until soft, about 10 minutes.
  Pour into cheesecloth-lined strainer. Let stand until juice has
  drained into bowl, about 30 minutes. Gently squeeze pulp to extract
  remaining juice. Measure berry juice into heavy medium saucepan. Add
  1 cup sugar for each cup juice. Cook over low heat, swirling pan
  occasionally, until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil syrup 2
  minutes. Cool completely. Mix 2 1/2 cups syrup with cream.
  Refrigerate until well chilled. Process blackberry mixture in ice
  cream maker according to manufacturer's instructions; ice cream will
  be soft. Freeze in covered container several hours to mellow flavors.
  Garnish with fresh berries and mint leaves.
   *Can substitute unsweetened frozen blackberries, thawed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cinnamon Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Half & half
      1 oz Cinnamon stick;
           - in small pieces
      1    Vanilla bean; split length
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
     12    Egg yolks
      4 c  Whipping cream
           Strawberry for garnish
 
  Combine half and half, cinnamon sticks and vanilla bean in heavy large
  saucepan. Scald over very low heat. Remove from heat, cover and let
  stand at room temperature at least 1 hour. Combine sugar and egg
  yolks in large bowl of electric mixer and beat at high speed until
  mixture forms slowly dissolving ribbon when beaters are lifted.
  Reheat half and half over low heat. Gradually beat 2 cups half and
  half into egg yolk mixture. Stir yolk mixture into remaining half and
  half. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until thermometer
  registers 180~ and custard coats back of spoon; do not boil.
  Immediately transfer custard to large bowl. Cool at least 2 hours. If
  possible, cover and refrigerate for several hours or overnight.
  Strain custard, discarding cinnamon and vanilla bean. Whisk in
  whipping cream. Transfer to ice cream maker (in batches if necessary)
  and freeze according to manufacturer's instructions. To serve, spoon
  into large bowl and garnish with fresh strawberries. Makes 1 gallon.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Double Almond Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3 c  Whipping cream
      1 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Sugar + 2 tbls; divided
      4    Egg yolks; beaten
      1 tb Vanilla
      2 ts Almond extract
      2 tb Butter
  1 1/2 c  Natural almonds; chopped
 
  Combine cream, milk and 3/4 cup sugar in medium saucepan. Cook and
  stir over medium heat until sugar is dissolved and mix is hot.
  Gradually add 1 cup cream mix to the beaten egg yolks, whisking
  constantly. When mix is smooth, strain into double boiler. Gradually
  pour in remaining cream mix, whisking constantly. Cook over simmering
  water, stirring, until mix thickens slightly and coats the back of a
  spoon, about 8 minutes. DO NOT BOIL. Stir in extracts. Cool.
  Meanwhile, melt butter and stir in remaining 2 tbls sugar in small
  saucepan. Cook and stir over medium heat until the sugar begins to
  bubble ( about 30 seconds). Add almonds and cook and stir over medium
  heat until golden and well coated; cool. Stir almonds into cream
  mixture. Pour into ice cream freezer container. Freeze according to
  manufacturer's directions. Makes 1 quart.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee Brickle Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 tb Instant coffee
      2 ts Water; hot
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      4 c  Half & half
    3/4 c  Almonds; chopped, toasted
    1/3 c  Brickle chips
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Almond extract
 
  In small bowl, dissolve coffee in water. In ice cream freezer
  container, combine all ingredients; mix well. Freeze according to
  manufacturer's directions. Makes 2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Cheesecake Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      2 c  Half & half
      2 c  Whipping cream, unwhipped
      1 tb Vanilla
    1/2 ts Almond extract
     17 oz Dark sweet cherries; pitted
           - well drained  -OR-
     10 oz Maraschino cherries; drained
           - chopped
 
  In large mixer bowl, beat cream cheese until fluffy. Gradually add
  sweetened condensed milk until smooth. Add remaining ingredients; mix
  well. Pour into ice cream freezer container. Freeze according to
  manufacturer's directions. Makes 1-1/2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackberry Lemon Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Unsweetened blackberries
           - Fresh or frozen; mashed
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Grated lemon peel (opt)
      3 c  Half & half
 
  In large bowl, combine blackberries, milk, lemon juice and elmon
  peel. Stir in half & half. Pour into ice cream freezer container.
  Freeze according to manufacturer's directions. Makes about 2 quarts.
   NOTE: 2 cups fresh or thawed frozen blueberries or raspberries,
  mashed, can be substituted for blackberries.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Cookie Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2    Bananas, ripe; peel, mashed
     10    Chocolate sandwich cookies;
           - finely chopped
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
    1/4 c  Chocolate syrup
           Additional chocolate syrup
           Banana slices
           Maraschino cherries
 
  Fold bananas and cookies into ice cream in large bowl. Pour into an 8"
  square pan. Drizzle with chocolate syrup. Run knife through mix to
  make swirls. Cover; freeze until firm. To serve, scoop into sundae
  glasses. Top with additional chocolate sauce, banana slices and
  maraschino cherries.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Pecan Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Nuts/grains, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
  1 1/2 c  Pecans; chopped, toasted
      3 tb Butter or margarine; melted
      1 ts Maple flavoring
      2 c  Half & half
      2 c  Whipping cream, unwhipped
 
  In large bowl, combine sweetened condensed milk, pecans, butter and
  maple; mix well. Stir in remaining ingredients. Pour into ice cream
  freezer container. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions.
  Makes 2 quarts.
   REFRIGERATOR-FREEZER METHOD: Omit half & half. Whip whipping cream.
  In large bowl, combine sweetened condensed milk, pecans, butter and
  maple; mix well. Fold in whipping cream. Pour into 9x5" loaf pan;
  cover. Freeze 6 hours or until firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kahlua-Colada Parfaits *
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      8    Macaroon cookies
    1/2 c  Kahlua
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
      8 ts Rum
     20 oz Crushed pineapple, in juice;
           - well drained
    1/4 c  Shredded coconut; toasted
 
  In each of 4 parfait glasses or 12oz wine glasses, crumble 1 cookie.
  Sprinkle each with 1 tbls Kahlua. Top with 1/4 cup ice cream in each
  glass, then spoon a layer of pineapple over ice cream and sprinkle
  with 1 tsp rum. Repeat layers using remaining ingredients, ending
  with ice cream and sprinkling toasted coconut over top. Serve
  immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Salsa Sundaes *
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Ice cream, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      4    6" flour tortillas
  1 1/2 c  Peaches; peeled, diced
  1 1/2 c  Strawberries; diced
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Crystallized ginger; finely
           - chopped
    1/2 ts Grated lime peel
      4 oz Vanilla ice cream
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Soften tortillas according to package
  directions. Press each one down in ungreased 10 oz custard cup. Bake
  10-15 minutes or until crisp. Set aside to cool. Combine peaches,
  strawberries, sugar, ginger and lime peel; mix gently until well
  blended. To assemble, remove tortillas from custard cups. Place each
  tortilla shell on dessert plate and fill with 1 scoop of vanilla ice
  cream. Spoon equal portions of fruit salsa over top of ice cream.
  Garnish with mint sprigs if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Bonanza Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Milk
      2 c  Whipping cream
      2    Eggs; beaten
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      2 md Bananas, extra ripe; peeled
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
 
  In saucepan, combine milk, cream, eggs, and sugar. Cook and stir over
  low heat until mixture thickens slightly and coats the back of a
  spoon. Cool to room temperature. Puree bananas in blender ( 1 cup).
  Combine cooled custard, bananas, vanilla, salt and nutmeg. Pour into
  freezer container. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Mocha Ice Cream *
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3 md Bananas, extra ripe; peeled
      4    Eggs; clean, uncracked
      2 c  Whipping cream
      1 c  Half & half
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Chocolate syrup
      2 tb Instant coffee crystals
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Slice bananas into blender; process until pureed (1-1/2 cups). Add
  eggs; process to blend. Pour banana mixture and remaining ingredients
  into ice cream freezer container. Stir until sugar dissolves and
  mixture is blended. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions.
  Makes 1-1/2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Creamsicle Pie *
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     18    Graham crackers; fine crush
           - about 1-1/4 cup crumbs
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Margarine; melted
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream; softened
      6 oz Orange juice concentrate;
           - thawed
           Cool Whip
           Orange slices
 
  In small bowl, combine crumbs, sugar and margarine; press onto bottom
  and sides of 9" pie plate. Set aside. In large bowl, with electric
  mixer on medium speed, blend ice cream and orange juice concentrate;
  spread in prepared crust. Freeze until firm, about 4 hours. Before
  serving, garnish with Cool Whip and orange slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Magic Pie *
 Categories: Pie/tart, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     42    Oreo cookies
      2 tb Margarine; melted
      1 qt Chocolate ice cream
      1 pt Vanilla ice cream; softened
    1/2 c  Whipped topping
           Chocolate fudge sauce
 
  Finely crush 22 cookies. Mix 1-1/4 cup crumbs and margarine; set aside
  remaining crumbs. Press onto bottom of 9" pie plate. Stand 14 cookies
  around edge of plate, pressing lightly into crust. Scoop chocolate ice
  cream into balls; arrange in prepared crust. Coarsely chop remaining 6
  cookies; sprinkle over ice cream scoops. Spread softened vanilla ice
  cream evenly over cookie layer; freeze 15 minutes. Top with a layer
  of reserved cookie crumbs, pressing gently into ice cream. Freeze
  several hours or overnight. To serve, garnish with whipped topping
  and chocolate sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Mountain Pie *
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Macaroon crumbs; soft
           - about 7, 2" cookies
    1/4 c  Butter flavor Crisco; melted

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 pt Lime sherbet; softened
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream; softened
  1 1/2 c  Macaroon crumbs; soft
 
   CRUST: Pregeat oven to 350~. Lightly grease 9" pie palte. Combine
  1-3/4 crumbs and melted butter flavor Crisco. Press into greased pie
  plate.
   FILLING: Spread 1 pint lime sherbet in cooled crust. Freeze about 1
  hour until firm. Combine ice cream and 1-1/2 cup macaroon crumbs.
  Spread vevnly over sherbet. Freeze about 1 hour until firm. Spread
  remaining sherbet over ice cream. Freeze several hours. Remove from
  freezer 10-15 minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kahlua Ice Cream Pie *
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream, Alcohol, Chocolate
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      9 oz Chocolate wafer cookies
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter; melted
     10 tb Kahlua; divided
      1 ts Expresso powder
      3 oz Semi-sweet chocolate; choped
      1 tb Unsalted butter
      1 pt Ice cream; vanilla, coffee,
           - or chocolate chip
      1 pt Chocolate ice cream
    3/4 c  Whipping cream; whipped
 
  In food processor, place half of cookies, breaking into pieces.
  Process to make fine crumbs. Repeat with remaining cookies. Add 1/2
  cup melted butter and process with on-off pulses, just to blend.
  Press crumbs evenly onto bottom and up side of 9" pie plate. Press
  crumbs evenly to rim. Bake at 325~ for 10 minutes. Cool completely.
  In small saucepan, heat 6 tbls Kahlua and expresso powder over low
  heat until warmed and powder is dissolved. Stir in chocolate and 1
  tbls butter and stir until melted and smooth. Cool completely.
  Transfer vanilla ice cream to electric mixer bowl and allow to soften
  slightly. Add 2 tbls Kahlua and beat on low speed to blend. Spread
  over bottom of cooled crust and freeze until firm. Spread cooled
  chocolate mixture over ice cream in plate. Freeze until firm.
  Transfer chocolate ice cream to mixer bowl; blend in remaining 2 tbls
  Kahlua as above. Spread chocolate ice cream over sauce in pie. Freeze
  until firm. To serve, pipe decorative border of whipped cream around
  inside edge of pie.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Style Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      4    Egg; separated
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      6 c  Light cream -OR- half & half
      2 tb Vanilla extract
 
  Beat yolks in a small bowl until foamy. Gradually add 3/4 cup sugar;
  beat until thickened. Beat egg whites in a large bowl until soft
  peaks form. Fold egg yolk mix into egg whites. Stir in cream and
  remaining 3/4 cup sugar. Transfer to 3 quart saucepan. Cook over
  medium heat, stirring constantly until mixture coats a spoon (DO NOT
  BOIL). Cool. Add vanilla. Chill well, churn then freeze. Makes about
  3 quarts.
   VARIATIONS: For variations reduce amount of vanilla to 1 tbls. Blend
  in additional ingredients after ice cream mix is cooled and before
  chilling, unless directed otherwise.
   1) BLACK WALNUT: Add 2 cups finely chopped black walnuts.
   2) MOCHA CHIP: Blend 1/4 cup instant coffee into a portion of the
  cream in recipe. Heat to dissolve coffee; cool. Stir in 1 cup
  minature chocolate chips.
   3) PUMPKIN: Combine and blend in 2 cups canned pumpkin, 1-1/2 tsp
  pumpkin pie spice and 1/2 tsp allspice.
   4) SPICE: Combine 4 tsp cinnamon, 1-1/2 tsp nutmeg and 1/2 tsp ground
  cloves with sugar in recipe.
   5) PEPPERMINT: Reduce sugar in recipes to 3/4 cup. Blend in 1 cup
  crushed peppermint stick candy. Add another 1/2 cup crushed candy
  after freezing but before ripening.
   6) TOFFEE CRUNCH: Reduce sugar to 1-1/4 cups. Blend in 1 cup crushed
  plain toffee candy. Add another 1 cup crushed candy after freezing
  but before ripening.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brach's Chocolate Rum Raisin Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Brach's chocolate covered
           - raisins
    3/4 c  Milk
      1    Egg
      2 ts Rum flavoring
 
  In small saucepan over medium heat, combine cream and chocolate
  covered raisins. Stir until chocolate has melted. Remove from heat.
  Whisk in milk, egg and flavoring. Chill. Freeze according to
  manufacturer's directions. Makes 1 pint.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brach's Chocolate Peanut Crunch Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1    Egg
      3 tb Sugar
      1 c  Whipping cream
    3/4 c  Milk
    2/3 c  Brach's chocolate covered
           - peanuts; finely chopped
 
  In small bowl, whisk together egg and sugar. Stir in cream, milk and
  peanuts. Freeze according to manufacturer's directions. Makes 1 pint.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brach's Choco-Mint Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1    Egg
      2 tb Sugar
      1 c  Whipping cream
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Brach's chocolate mints;
           - chopped, about 8 mints
 
  In small bowl, whisk together egg and sugar. Stir in cream and milk.
  Stir in chocolate covered mints pieces. Freeze according to
  manufacturer's directions. Garnish with additional mints. Makes 1
  pint.
   NOTE: Good way to serve is to serve in a parfait glass with layers of
  chocolate syrup in between ice cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Raspberry Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Egg
     16 oz Cran-raspberry sauce
      1 c  Light cream
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  In small saucepan, heat milk until warm. Stir in sugar and salt until
  dissolved. In a bowl, beat egg. Stir small amount of warm mixture into
  beaten egg; return to warm mixture, stirring constantly. Cook and
  stir over low heat for 5 minutes. Chill. In large bowl, break up
  cran-rapsberry sauce with a fork; stir in egg mix, cream and vanilla.
  Pour into 2-qt metal container of ice cream maker. Process according
  to manufacturer's directions. Makes 1 quart.
   NOTE: Can be made by pouring into freezer trays; place in freezer
  for 2 hours. Beat well in chilled bowl, cover and return to freezer.
  Repeat beating again in 2 hours. Re-freeze after each beating. Cover
  tray closely each time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Chocolate Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
      2 c  Milk
      4 oz Sweet chocolate; melted
      2    Eggs; beaten
    1/2 c  Shredded coconut
      2 c  Light cream -OR- Half & Half
    1/2 c  Pecans; chopped
 
  Combine sugar, flour, salt and cinnamon in a 2 qt saucepan. Gradually
  add milk. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until
  thickened. Cook additional 2 minutes. Remover from heat. Blend in
  melted chocolate. Blend a small amount of hot mixture into eggs;
  return all to pan, stirring constantly. Cook 1 minute (DO NOT BOIL).
  Remove from heat; add coconut. Cool. Blend in cream; chill. Stir in
  nuts. Churn-freeze. Makes 2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Milk; cold
    1/2 c  Milk; heated to boiling
      2 c  Fresh blueberries  -OR-
      2 c  Dry-pack frozen blueberries;
           - thawed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Whipping cream; whipped
 
  In 5 cup blender, sprinkle unflavored gelatin over cold milk; let
  stand 3-4 minutes. Add hot milk and process at low speed until
  gelatin is completely dissolved, about 2 minutes. Let cool
  completely. Add blueberrie and sugar; process at high speed until
  blended. Pour into a large bowl and chill, stirring occasionally,
  until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a spoon. Fold whipped
  cream into gelatin mixture. Pour into two 4x10" freezer trays or one
  8" baking pan; freeze until firm. Makes 1-1/2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Praline Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3    Eggs
  1 3/4 c  Light brown sugar; firm pack
      3 c  Milk
      3 c  Whipping cream
      1 tb Vanilla
    1/4 ts Maple flavoring (opt)
      1 c  Slated pecans; chopped
 
  Beat eggs until foamy in a large mixing bowl. Gradually add sugar;
  beat until thickened. Add milk, cream, vanilla, and maple flavor; mix
  well. Stir in pecans. Chill. Churn-freeze. Makes 3 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Apricot Ice Cream **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     12 oz Evaporated milk
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
    3/4 c  Sugar
     12 oz Apricot nectar
  1 1/2 c  Fresh apricots; diced
           - about 3/4 lb
    1/2 pt Plain yogurt
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine evaporated milk and gelatin in large saucepan. Heat, stirring
  often, until gelatin dissolves. Add sugar and heat until it dissolves.
  Using a wire whisk, stir in apricots, apricot nectar, yogurt and
  vanilla. Pour mixture into canister of ice cream machine. Churn 20-30
  minutes or until softly frozen. Pack into containers and freeze. For
  best flavor, let ice cream soften slightly before serving. Makes 2
  quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frozen Amaretto Zabagloine **
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert, Fruit, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3    Nectarines; cut in chunks
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 c  Half & half
      6    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Amaretto
           Almonds; chopped
           Additional nectarines; slice
 
  Puree nectarines to measure 2 cups. Combine sugar, half & hlaf and egg
  yolks in saucepan. Heat, beating constantly with wire whisk until
  slightly thickened and lemon-colored. Do not boil. Stir in nectarine
  puree and amaretto. Pour into iuce cream canister. Churn-freeze
  according to manufacturers directions. Pack into freezing containers;
  freeze until firm. To serve, allow to soften somewhat, then scoop
  over extra nectarine slices. Sprinkle with chopped almonds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kiwifruit Sorbet **
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      4    Kiwifruits; pared
      5 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Grated lemon peel
 
  Combine water, sugar and corn syrup in saucepan. cook and stir 2
  minutes or until sugar is dissolved. Puree kiwifruit in food
  processor or blender to equal 3/4 cup puree. Add lemon juice, lemon
  peel and sugar mixture. Pour into shallow metal pan; freeze about 1
  hour or until firm but not solid. Spoon into chilled bowl and beat
  with electric mixer until light and fluffy. Return to freezer; freeze
  2 hours or until firm enough to scoop.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Peppermint Dessert **
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Chocolate wafer crumbs
      3 tb Butter; melted
      1 qt Peppermint ice cream; soft
    1/2 c  Chocolate fudge topping
 
  Combine crumbs and butter. Press mixture onto bottom and part way up
  sides of 8" square baking pan. Freeze utnil firm. Spread ice cream
  over the frozen crumbs. Cover with chocolate topping. Freeze several
  hours or overnight. To serve, let stand at room temperature about 15
  minutes; cut into squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Parfait Ice Cream Pie **
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream; soften
           - slightly
      1    8" cookie crumb pie crust
      1 cn Cherry pie filling
           Whipped cream topping (opt)
 
  In mixing bowl stir half of the ice cream until of spreading
  consistency; spread evenly in pie crust. Top with half of the cherry
  pie filling. Freeze until filling is partially frozen, about 45
  minutes. Stir remaining ice cream to spreading consistency; spread
  over partially frozen pie filling in crust. Freeze until firm, at
  least 3 hours. Just before serving, top with remaining pie filling.
  Garnish with whipped topping if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vanilla-Limeade Ice Cream Pie **
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
     23    Chocolate wafer cookies
      3 tb Butter; melted

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 pt Vanilla ice cream; softened
      6 tb Limeade concentrate; thawed
      3 dr Green food coloring
 
   For crust, take 11 of the wafers and trim 1/4" from one end of each;
  set aside trimmed wafers. Crush remaining 12 wafers along with
  trimmed 1/4" pieces. Combine crumbs with melted butter; press onto
  bottom of 9" pie plate. Stand trimmed wafers upright around edge of
  pie plate. Freeze until crust is firm, about 1 hour.
   For filling, spread 1 pint vanilla ice cream over frozen crust.
  Combine limeade and food color. Drizzle 2 tbls mixture over ice
  cream. Return to freezer until firm, at least 1 hour. Repeat twice.
  Freeze completed pie several hours or overnight. If freezing longer,
  wrap pie in freezer paper. Remove from freezer and let stand 15
  minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tri-Color Cake **
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1    Angel food loaf cake
      1 pt Chocolate ice cream; soft
      1 pt Raspberry sherbet; soft
    1/2 ts Almond extract
      1 c  Whipping cream; whipped and
           - sweetened
 
  Cut cake lengthwise into 4 equal layers. Spread chocolate ice cream
  on 2 layers; spread raspberry sherbet on remaining 2 layers. Stack
  layers on serving platter, beginning with chocolate and alternating
  sherbet; freeze several hours or overnight. Fold almond extract into
  whipped cream. Frost sides of cake with whipped cream; decorate top
  and bottom edges of cake with whipped cream piped through decorator
  tube. Return to freezer until cream is firm, at least 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peachy Ice Cream Crown Cake **
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      6 oz Ladyfingers; split
    1/2 ga Vanilla ice cream
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Water
      3 md Peaches; sliced
 
  Line 9" springform pan with plastic wrap. Arrange ladyfingers to cover
  bottom and sides of pan. Layer half of the ice cream, remaining
  ladyfingers and then remaining ice cream into pan. Freeze. Combine
  sugar and cornstarch in saucepan; stir in wine and water. Cook over
  medium heat until mixture is clear and slightly thickened. Mash one
  peach and stir into wine mix. Cool. Place peach slices over ice cream
  layer of cake. Serve with wine sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peach Melba Dessert
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Peaches; sliced peeled fre
      2 c  Raspberry; fresh or frozen
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Water
           Ice cream; vanilla
 
  In a saucepan, bring peaches, raspberries, sugar & water to a boil.
  Reduce heat and simmer 5 minutes. Chill, if desired. Serve over ice
  cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sabayon
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Oranges
      2    Lemons
      6    Egg yolks
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Red wine
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Sherry
      1 qt French vanilla ice cream
     24    Strawberries
 
  Extract juice from the oranges and lemons. Grate the rinds on a piece
  of waxed paper or in a small bowl. In the top of a double boiler over
  water just under boiling, beat egg yolks for 1 minute. Add grated
  orange and lemon rinds and all other ingredients except ice cream and
  strawberries. Keep beating until mixture attains the consistency of
  Hollandaise sauce and foams up a bit. Remove from heat. Make
  individual strawberry sundaes and liberally top with the sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mocha Ice Cream Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Alcohol, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 oz Ladyfingers
    1/2 ga Coffee ice cream; softened
      1 qt Chocolate ice cream; soften
      2 tb Instant coffee granules
    1/2 c  Coffee flavored liqueur
      6    Toffee bars; crushed
           Chocolate sauce
      1 c  Heavy cream; whipped
 
  Line ladyfingers around side of 9" springform pan. Mix softened ice
  creams together. Add coffee granules, liqueur and crushed toffee
  bars. Pour into springform pan. Spread a thin layer of chocolate
  sauce on top. Freeze. Before serving, spread cake with whipped cream.
  Do not let this cake defrost before serving. Serve immediatly upon
  removing from freezer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snickers Ice Cream *
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     12 oz Vanilla ice cream
    1/4 c  Crunchy peanut butter
      1 c  Cool whip
      1 pk Instant chocolate pudding
 
  Mix all ingredients well. Pour into square pan and freeze. Serves 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butterfinger Dessert *
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 20 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      1 c  Soda cracker crumbs
    1/2 c  Butter; melted
      1 pk Instant vanilla pudding
      1 pk Instant butterscotch pudding
      2 c  Milk
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
      8 oz Cool Whip
      4    Frozen Butterfingers
 
  Combine cracker crumbs and butter. Press 2/3 into bottom of 9 x 13
  pan. Combine puddings and prepare using only 2 cups of milk. Blend in
  the softened vanilla ice cream. Beat until smooth. Pour over crumb
  mixture. Freeze until partly firm. Remove and cover with Cool Whip.
  Crush candy bars and mix with remaining 1/3 cup crumb mixture.
  Sprinkle on top of cool whip. Refrigerate -DO NOT FREEZE- several
  hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frozen Jack-O-Lanterns *
 Categories: Holiday, Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     12    Navel oranges
    1/2 ga Dark chocolate ice cream
     12    Cinnamon sticks
 
  Cut off tops of oranges. Gently hollow out pulp (reserve for another
  use), leaving a thick shell; hollow out pulp off tops also. Cut
  Jack-O-Lantern faces into each orange. Pack chocolate ice cream into
  shells, avoid letting ice cream come out of holes. Cut a hole into
  top of orange top. Set tops back on, over ice cream, and inset
  cinnamon stick stem through the hole. Place in freezer for at least 3
  hours, or until serving time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Mint Heaven
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 pk Oreo cookies; crush in chunk
      1 c  Butter; melted

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 ga Ice Cream; mint choco-chip
      8    Heath bars/Skors;crushed

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2    Jars hot Fudge Sauce
     12 oz Cool Whip; thawed
 
  Combine crushed oreos and place in botton of either a BIG glass bowl
  or 13x9" pan. Freeze until firm. Combine mint chocolate chip ice
  cream and crushed Heath bars. Reserve a few chunks of Heath bars for
  top. Combine and place on top of oreo base. Freeze until firm. Heat 2
  jars hot fudge sauce, so you can pour. Pour fudge over top in rippled
  pattern. Freeze. Just before serving top with cool whip & reserved
  Heath chunks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee-Toffee Ice Cream Cake *
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 lb Frozen pound cake; thaw
      2 pt Coffee ice cream; soft
  1 1/3 c  Hot fudge topping
      3    Heath bars; crushed
      1 c  Heavy cream; whipped
 
  Cut  cake into 1/3" slices and halve each slice diagonally. You will
  have triangular pieces of cake. Line bottom of 9" springform pan with
  cake, filling in any spaces by cutting some slices into small pieces.
  Spread half the ice cream over cake. Freeze until firm, about 1 hour.
  Spread half the fudge topping over ice cream and sprinkle with half
  the crushed Heath bars. Repeat layering with remaining cake, ice
  cream, fudge topping and candy. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and
  freeze until ice cream is set. Before serving, remove pan sides.
  Place cake on platter. Spread some whipped cream on sides of cake.
  Pipe rosettes of cream around edge of cake. Serves 8-10.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pears Belle Helene
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 qt Water
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Vanilla bean split
      4    Pears; peeled
      4 oz Dark sweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
           French vanilla ice cream
 
  Combine water,sugar and vanilla bean in large sauce pan and bring to
  boil. Add pears, reduce heat and cook gently until tender (30
  minutes). Refrigerate pears and syrup for 24 hours. Remove vanilla
  bean from syrup. Melt chocolate in heavy pan over low heat, stirring
  frequently until smooth and glossy. Scrape vanilla bean pulp into
  chocolate. Add cream and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Remove
  from heat. To serve, place scoop of ice cream in bowl. Place pear
  alongside ice cream and spoon chocolate sauce over top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sundae Apples
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Chocolate, Alcohol, Ice cream
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lg Red Apples
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      2 dr Red Food Coloring
    1/2    Lemon; sliced thin
    1/2    Orange; sliced thin
           Chocolate Liqueur Sauce
      1 pt Vanilla Ice Cream
    1/4 c  Walnuts; chopped

MMMMM------------------CHOCOLATE LIQUEUR SAUCE-----------------------
      2 tb Butter or Margarine
      2    Unsweetened Chocolate square
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Apple Brandy -OR-
           - Creme de Cacao
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Wash & core apples, but DO NOT PEEL. Cut apple
  1/3-1/2 of the way from top to bottom in 6 or 8 sections, depending
  on size of apple. Place in shallow, ungreased baking pan. Mix sugar
  and cinnamon together in small saucepan; add water, lemon and orange
  slices, and bring to a boil. Boil 7 mins. or until syrup is
  thickened. Discard lemon and orange slices. Pour this syrup over the
  apples, and bake for 30 minutes or until fork tender. Baste apples
  frequently during baking with syrup from the pan. They should be
  nicely glazed when done. To serve warm, let apples stand 10-15
  minutes before continuing. Also good served cold. Place apple in
  glass dessert bowl, opening the apple sectionsso they spread (like
  flower petals) to fit the bowl. Cut sections deeper if needed to open
  it more easily. Fill center of apple with scoop of ice cream. Drizzle
  the chocolate liqueur sauce over all, and garnish with chopped
  walnuts. Serve immediately.
   CHOCOLATE LIQUER SAUCE: Melt butter and chocolate in saucepan over
  low heat. Add sugar and water. Cook until sauce is thickened a bit,
  stirring frequently. Add liqueur and remove from heat. Cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frozen Lady Heath Dessert **
 Categories: Dessert, Alcohol, Ice cream
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     18    To 24 ladyfingers; split
      1 tb Instant coffee
      1 tb Water; boiling
      5    1.4oz Heath Bars; frozen
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream; softened
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Cream de cacao
 
  Line bottom and sides of 8" springform pan with ladyfingers, cutting
  to fit. Dissolve coffee in water. Cool. Crush 4 candy bars, careful
  not to smash. Combine with coffee and softened ice cream. Spoon
  mixture into pan and freeze until firm. Whip cream with cream de
  cacao until stiff. Spread over frozen ice cream mixture. Crush
  remaining candy bar and sprinkle over whipped cream layer. Cover with
  foil and freeze until firm. Cut into wedges to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Pecan Ice Cream Dessert **
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; softend
      1 pk Lorna Doone cookies
      1 qt Butter pecan ice cream
      2 sm Vanilla instant pudding
      2 c  Milk; cold
     13 oz Cool Whip
      4    Heath Bars; frozen
 
  Crush cookies and mix with softened butter. Pat into 9x13" pan and
  bake at 325~ for 12-15 minutes. In large bowl, at medium speed,
  soften ice cream and add dry pudding. Blend a little and add milk.
  Beat 2-3 minutes and pour into cooled crust. Frost with Cool Whip.
  Sprinkle with crushed Heath Bars and refrigerate. DO NOT FREEZE.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frozen Ho Ho Dessert **
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream, Chocolate
      Yield: 20 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 pk HoHo cakes
      2 qt Ice cream, 1 qt each of 2
           - different flavors, any
           - you choose
     13 oz Cool Whip
     16 oz Oreo cookies; crushed
     12 oz Hot fudge sauce
           Chocolate shavings
 
  Cut HoHo cakes in half lengthwise. Line sides, then bottom, of 9x13"
  baking pan with HoHos. Cover with one flavor of ice cream; spread
  crushed oreo cookies over ice cream. Freeze. Add second layer of ice
  cream. Freeze. Pour fudge sauce over this, then top with Cool Whip.
  Garnish with shaved chocolate. Freeze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pistachio Fluff **
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     56    Ritz crackers; crushed
    1/2 c  Margarine; melted
      2 sm Pistachio instant pudding
      2 c  Milk
      2 pt Vanilla ice cream; softened
           Cool Whip
 
  Mix together cracker crumbs and melted margarine. Pat into 9x13 pan.
  Bake at 325~ for 10 minutes; cool. Blend together dry pudding mix,
  milk and ice cream. Pour over cooled crust. Refrigerate until firm.
  DO NOT FREEZE. Cover with whipped topping. Refrigerate until serving
  time. Cut into squares. NOTE: Can use any flavor pudding.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Watermelon Sherbet
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      5 c  Watermelon; seeded & cubed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1    Envelope unflavored geletin
    1/4 c  Water
     12 oz Evaporated skimmed milk
 
  Combine first 3 ingredients; cover and chill 30 minutes. Place
  watermelon mixture in container of an electric blender or food
  processor. Top with cover, and process until smooth; set aside.
  Sprinkle gelatin over water in a small sauxepan; let stand 1 minute.
  Cook over medium heat, stirring until gelatine dissolves; remove from
  heat. Combine watermelon mixture, gelatin and milk. Pour into freezer
  container of a 5-quart hand-turned or electric freezer. Freeze
  mixture according to manufactuer's instructions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ice Cream with Black Cherry Sauce
 Categories: Dessert, Italian, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     10 oz Morello cherries; pitted
           - or other if these not
           - available (maybe Bing)
           - reserve the stones
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2    Lemon
      1    Vanilla bean
      4    Eggs; yolks only
      2 c  Milk
 
      - Gelato alle Amarene - Tie the cherry stones in a piece of
  cheesecloth. Put the cherries in a saucepan and add half the sugar,
  the cherry stones, the zest and juice of the lemon, vanilla bean and
  sufficient water to barely cover the cherries. Simmer for 30 minutes.
  Set aside to cool. Discard the cherry stones. Push the sauce through
  a sieve into a bowl. In the top of a double boiler, beat the egg
  yolks with the remaining sugar until the mixture falls from the
  beater in a ribbon. Add the milk. Place over simmering water and
  cook, without boiling, until the custard thickens enough to coat a
  spoon. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool. Freeze the mixture
  in an ice-cream machine and churn until set. Transfer the ice-cream
  to a shallow serving bowl. Pour the morello cherry sauce over it and
  serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creme De Menthe Parfait
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 oz Creme de Menthe
    1/2 c  Crushed Pineapple & Juice
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  White Corn Syrup
      1 ds Salt
      1 qt Vanilla Ice Cream
      3 dr Green Coloring
 
  Boil all ingredients except Creme de Menthe and ice cream. When
  pineapple is clear, add Creme de Menthe. Let cool and make parfaits
  in the usual manner, alternating sauce and ice cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Garden Mint Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Fresh pineapple;
           - crushed finely
      2 c  Mint leaves; crush finely
      1 c  Light corn syrup
      1 c  Unsweetened pineapple juice
      2 c  Milk
      2 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Creme de menthe
 
  Combine sugar and sater; cook and stir till mixture boils. Cook to
  soft ball stage (235~). Add mint leaves; cook about 10 minutes
  longer. Remove from heat; strain. Add corn syrup; let cool. Add
  remaining ingredients; freeze in hand-turned or electric ice cream
  freezer. Let ripen. Makes 2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pump House Peaches in Flame
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Alcohol, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Port wine
    1/2 c  Tart cherry jelly
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
        ds Salt
      1 tb Lime juice
  3 1/2 c  Peach halves; drained
    1/4 c  Brandy; heated
      1 qt Lemon ice cream
 
  Combine sugar, port wine, cherry jelly, cinnamon, salt and lime juice
  in a blazer pan or chafing dish. Heat and stir until smoothly
  blended. Add peach halves, cut side down, and prick rounded surfaces
  with a fork. Simmer 5 minutes, basting peach halves frequently with
  sauce. Add 1/4 cup heated brandy, set aflame and toss gently with
  silver fork and spoon until the flame dies. To serve, spoon peaches
  and sauce over individual servings of lemon ice cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Freezer Strawberry Sorbet
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 pk Unflavored gelatin
      1 c  Sugar
      3 c  Water
      1 qt Pureed strawberries
           -about 3 pints fresh
      1 c  Cranberry juice cocktail
    1/4 c  Fresh squeezed lemon juice
 
  Combine gelatin and sugar in a medium saucepan; stir in water. Let
  stand 2 minutes.  Cook over low heat, stirring constantly until
  gelatin dissolves. Remove from heat; cool. Stir in strawberry puree
  and remaining ingredients. Pour into a 13x9 pan. Cover and freeze 8
  hours or overnight. Spoon about 1/4 of frozen mixture into the
  container of a blender or food processor. Top with lid and process
  until smooth. Return to pan. Repeat until all the mixture has been
  processed. Return pan to freezer and freeze for 4 hours or until
  firm.  Let stand at room temperature 15-20 minutes before serving. If
  you have an ice cream freezer, at * pour into container and follow
  manufacturer's instructions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pralines & Cream Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------PRALINES-------------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
    3/4 c  Buttermilk
      2 c  Pecans; coarsely chopped
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 tb Vanilla extract

MMMMM-------------------------ICE CREAM------------------------------
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  All purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      3    Eggs; beaten
      5 c  Whole milk
      1 qt Whipping cream
  1 1/2 tb Vanilla
           Plus Pralines, above
 
  PRALINES: Combine first five ingredients in a large, heavy saucepan.
  Cook over low heat, stirring gently, until sugar is dissolved. Cover
  and cook over medium heat for 2-3 minutes to clear sugar crystals
  from sides of the pan. Uncover and cook to soft ball (234~), stirring
  constantly. Remove from heat and stir in soda and vanilla. Add butter
  and beat with a wooden spoon until mixture begins to thicken. Working
  quickly, drop by tablespoons onto buttered wax paper. Makes 1 1/2 - 2
  dozen pralines. BUT DON'T EAT THEM! Crumble coarsely and measure out
  3 1/2 cup of the crumblies for this ice cream.
    ICE CREAM: Combine sugar, flour, and salt in a Dutch oven. Add
  eggs, and stir until smooth. Stir in milk and cook over medium heat
  until thermometer reaches 165~, stirring constantly. Remove from heat
  and let cool slightly; Chill for 3 hours. Combine whipping cream and
  vanilla in a large bowl and whisk in chilled custard. Pour into
  freezer container of a 1 gallon ice cream freezer. Freeze according
  to manufacturer's instructions. Remove dasher and fold in 3 1/2 cups
  crumbled pralines. Let ripen for 1 hour before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rosy Rhubarb Sherbet
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Rhubarb; finely chopped
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Grated orange peel
    1/2 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
      2    Egg whites
      2 tb Sugar
           Toasted coconut or nuts,
           - if desired
 
  In large saucepan, combine rhubarb and 1 cup sugar, orange peel,
  orange juice and corn syrup. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly.
  Reduce heat and cook until rhubarb is tender, about 10 minutes; cool.
  Pour into laof pan or freezer trays; freeze to slush consistency,
  about 1-2 hours. Beat egg whites until foamy; gradually add 2 Tbls
  sugar, beating continously until stiff peaks form. Into large bowl,
  spoon partialyy forzen rhubarb mix; beat until light and fluffy. Fold
  in egg whites. Return to freezer container; cover with plastic wrap
  to prevent crystals from forming. Freese until firm, about 3-4 hours,
  stirring occasionally. Allow to soften slightly; spoon into sherbet
  glasses. Garnish with toasted coconut or nuts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Daisy White's Strawberry Ice Cream
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs; slightly beaten
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      2 c  Light cream
     20 oz Strawberry soda (Big Red)
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 pk Frozen strawberries; thawed
 
  Beat eggs; add all other ingredients, including strawberries. Pour
  into ice cream freezer and freeze as usual.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cantaloupe Sherbet
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 md Cantaloupe; peeled,
           - seeded, cubed
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Honey
      3 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  In blender or food processor fitted with metal blade, puree
  cantaloupe and lemon juice. In a large bowl, combine sugar, honey and
  milk. Add pureed cantaloupe mixture and vanilla. Stir until sugar
  dissolves. Pour into ice cream canister. Freeze in ice cream maker
  according to manufacturer's directions. Makes about 2 quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jello Ice Cream Pies
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream, Fruit, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pt Ice cream
      4 oz Jello; small package
      8 oz Fruit; frozen w/syrup
      1 c  Water; hot
 
  Disolve jello in 1 cup of hot water. Put ice cream in that mixture
  and stir until disolved. Then blend in fruit. Pour into a pie shell
  and refrigerate until set. You can do so many combos.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond-Snow Fruit Boats *
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      4    Apple; unpeeled, thin sliced
      3    Banana; peeled, thin sliced
      3    Pear; unpeeled, thin sliced
      2    Pineapple; fresh (with tops)
      2    Strawberry; halved, -tops
  1 1/2 lb Grape; halved, seeded
      1 pt Kumquat
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
  1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar; sifted
      4 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      2 qt Ice; finely crushed
    3/4 c  Almonds; toasted & slivered
    3/4 c  Fresh orange juice
    1/4 c  Kirsch
 
  Sprinkle bananas, apples and pears with fresh lemon juice. Cut
  pineapples in half. Using curved serrated knife, hollow out pineapple
  halves, leaving 1/2" shell (reserve shells and all juice). Discard
  core. Cut pineapple into 1/4" cubes. Transfer to large bowl. Add
  sliced fruit* and toss lightly. Cover and refrigerate up to 2 hours.
   For ice cream: Blend cream, powdered sugar and extracts in large
  bowl. Gradually fold in ice (or fresh clean snow) until mixture is
  consistency of ice cream. Fold in nuts. Add reserved pineapple juice
  to fruit. Blend in orange juice and kirsch. Spoon fruit into
  pineapple shells. Top with ice cream. Serve immediately.
   *Can substitute any fresh seasonal fruit and combination of purple
  and green grapes and red and green apples.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Chocolate Ice Cream *
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Half and half
     12 oz White chocolate;
           - coarsely chopped
      4    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Whipping cream
 
  Scald half and half in top of double boiler set over simmering water.
  Add chocolate. Reduce heat so water barely simmers and cook until
  chocolate is melted, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat. Using
  electric mixer, beat eggs in medium bowl to blend. Add sugar and beat
  until dissolved. Slowly mix in chocolate mixture. Beat in cream.
  Refrigerate until well chilled. Process chocolate mixture in ice
  cream maker according to manufacturer's instructions. Freeze in
  covered container at least 4 hours to mellow. If frozen solid, let
  ice cream soften slightly in refrigerator before serving. Makes 2
  quarts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Gelatin Dessert
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 cn Mandarin Oranges; drained
      1 lg Orange Jello
  1 1/3 c  Water; boiling
      2 pt Vanilla ice cream; softened
 
  Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add ice cream by spoonfuls, stir
  until melted. You can either layer oranges and mixture in 6-cup bowl
  or spread mix in 9x13" and put oranges on top. Refrigerate until set.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Decadent Ice Cream Cake *
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
  2 1/4 c  Macaroons; crumbled
      3 c  Chocolate ice cream;
           - slightly softened
      5    Heath bars; coarsely chopped
      4 tb Chocolate syrup
      3 tb Kahlua
      3 c  Vanilla ice cream; slightly
           - softened
 
  Layer the bottom of an 8" round springform pan with 1-1/4 cup of the
  macaroons. Spread chocolate ice cream evenly over the crumbs.
  Sprinkle 4 of the crushed Heath bars over the ice cream. Dribble 3
  tbls of the chocolate syrup and 2 tbls of the Kahlua over chocolate
  ice cream. Cover with remaining macaroons. Top evenly with vanilla
  ice cream. Sprinkle remaining crushed Heath bars over ice cream, then
  the chocolate syrup and Kahlua. Cover and freeze for at least 8 hours
  or overnught. When ready to serve, run the blade of a kitchen knife
  around the edges of the pan, remove the sides and place the ice cream
  cake on a serving paltter. Slice and serve.
   TIP: Place Heath bars in freezer till frozen. They are then easily
  broken with a mallet.
   VARIATIONS: Other cookies, such as chocolate wafers or vanilla
  cookies can be used instead of macaroons. Different variations of
  chocolate ice crem, such as chocolate-almond or others can be used.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Ice Cream Torte *
 Categories: Dessert, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 lg Egg whites
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Water; cold
      5    Egg yolks
    2/3 c  Sugar
      6 tb Sherry
      3 c  Whipping cream; whipped
      2 tb Cocoa
     10 oz Frozen red raspberries;
           - thawed and drained
      1 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/2 c  Whipping cream; whipped and
           - chilled
     12    Chocolate kisses
 
  Remove rim from a 9" springform pan. Cut brown paper to fit bottom.
  Beat egg whites and cream of tartar until foamy. Slowly beat in
  superfine sugar, beating until stiff. Spread evenly on paper. Bake 50
  minutes at 275~. Turn off heat. Leave meringue in oven 1 hour with
  door closed. Remove paper. Retun meringue to bottom of pan. Replace
  rim. Mix gelatin with cold water in top of double boiler. Let stand
  for 5 minutes. Add egg yolks, sugar, and sherry. Beat over simmering
  water until thickened. Cool. Fold egg mixture into the whipped cream.
  Divide into 3 equal parts. Add cocoa to 1 portion, raspberries to
  another and leave third plain. Spread cocoa mixture evenly over
  meringue. Freeze 10 minutes. Top with an even layer of the raspberry
  mixture. Freeze 10 minutes. Cover with plain mixture and freeze 8
  hours. To serve, remove rim and transfer torte to serving plate.
  Shave unsweetend chocolate over top and sides of the torte. Ring top
  of torte with 12 mounds or rosettes of whipped cream. Top each with
  candy kiss. Return unwrapped torte to freezer until 10 minutes before
  serving. Cut into wedges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Heath Bar Brownie Sundaes/caramel Sauce
 Categories: Ice cream, Dessert
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------ICE CREAM------------------------------
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
      1 c  Heath bars; chopped

MMMMM-----------------------CARAMEL SAUCE----------------------------
  1 1/3 c  Whipping cream
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Water
      2 tb Unsalted butter; cut into
           - 4 pieces

MMMMM--------------------------BROWNIES-------------------------------
      1 c  Unsalted butter; cut into
           - 1/2" pieces
      8 oz Semisweet chocolate; chopped
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate; chop
      3 lg Egg
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Heath bar; chopped
           -  + 2 tb
           - about 6 1/2 ounces
 
   FOR ICE CREAM: Place ice cream in medium bowl and soften slightly at
  room temperature. Stir in chopped Heath bars. Cover bowl with plastic
  wrap and freeze. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead) FOR CARAMEL SAUCE:
  Bring whipping cream to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Set aside.
  Combine sugar and 3 tablespoons water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir
  over medlium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to high and
  boil without stirring until caramel is deep amber color. brushing
  down sides of pan with wet pastry brush if sugar crystals form and
  occasionally swirling pan, about 8 minutes. Remove from heat and
  slowly add warm whipping cream (mixture will bubble vigorously).
  Return sauce to low heat and stir until smooth. Remove from heat and
  mix in butter. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
  FOR BROWNIES: Preheat oven to 350~. Butter 9" square baking pan with
  2" high sides. Combine butter and both chocolates in top of double
  boiler set over simmering water; stir until melted. Remove from over
  water and cool mixture slightly. Using electric mixer, beat eggs,
  sugar and vanilla in large bowl until slightly thickened, about 1
  minute. Beat in chocolate mixture. Add flour, baking powder and salt
  and mix until combined. Stir in 1 cup chopped Heath bars. Transfer
  batter to prepared pan. Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons chopped
  candy. For fudgy consistency, bake until tester inserted into center
  comes out with moist batter still attached, about 27 minutes; for
  cakelike texture bake until tester inserted into center comes out
  with a few moist crumbs attached, about 35 minutes. Cool. (Can be
  prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and store at room temperature.) Rewarm
  sauce over low heat. Cut brownie into 9 pieces. Spoon warm caramel
  sauce onto 8 plates. Place 1 brownie in center of each (reserve extra
  brownie for another use). Surround each with 3 small scoops of ice
  cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Devastation  (Part 1)
 Categories: Chocolate, Dessert, Alcohol, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------CHOCOLATE RAISIN ICE CREAM----------------------
      2 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Jack Daniel's whiskey
      8 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      2 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Half & half
      2 oz Unsweet chocolate
      8    Egg yolks
    1/4 c  Sugar

MMMMM-----------------------MOCHA MERINGUE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Unsweetened cocoa powder
      8    Egg whites
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Instant espresso
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/8 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------BITTERSWEET GANACHE-------------------------
      2 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Sugar
      8 oz Semi-sweet chocolate
      4 oz Unsweetened chocolate
 
  Combine the raisins and whiskey in a plastic container with a tight
  fitting lid. Allow to stand at room temperature for 6 hours or
  overnight. Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom half of a double boiler
  over medium heat. Place 8 ounces semi-sweet chocolate, 1/2 cup heavy
  cream, and 2 ounces unsweetened chocolate in the top half of the
  double boiler. Tightly cover the top with ilm wrap. Heat for 10
  minutes, then remove from the heat and stir until smooth. Transfer to
  a stainless steel bowl and set aside until needed. Heat the remaining
  1 1/2 c heavy cream and the half-and-half in a 2 1/2-qt. saucepan
  over medium-high heat. Bring the cream to a boil. While the cream is
  heating, place 8 egg yolks and 1/4 cup sugar in the bowl of an
  electric mixer fitted with a paddle. Beat the eggs on high for 2 to 2
  1/2 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl. Continue to beat on
  high until slightly thickened and lemon-colored, about 2 1/2 to 3
  minutes. (At this point, the cream should be boiling. If not, adjust
  the mixer speed to low and continue to mix until the cream boils. If
  this is not done, the egg yolks will develop undesirable lumps.) Pour
  the boiling cream into the beaten egg yolks and whisk to combine.
  Return to the saucepan and heat over medium-high heat, stirring
  constantly, until the cream reaches a temperature of 185~, 2-4
  minutes. Then pour into the melted chocolate mixture, and stir to
  combine. Cool the mixture in an ice-water bath to a temperature of
  40-45~, about 15-20 minutes. Line 2, 8" cake pans with enough film
  wrap to cover the insides of the pan. Set aside until needed. Fold
  the whiskey-soaked raisins and any residual liquid into the cooled
  chocolate custard mixture. Freeze in an ice cream freezer following
  the manufacturer's instructions. Transfer the semi-frozen ice cream
  to the 2 cake pans, evenly dividing the ice cream between the two
  pans. Use a rubber spatula to spread the ice cream evenly to the
  edges of the pans. Tightly cover the tops of the pans with film wrap,
  then place in the freezer for at least 12 hours before assembling the
  cake. See part 2 for rest of directions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Devastation (Part 2)
 Categories: Dessert, Chocolate, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           - directions continued
 
  MOCHA MERINGUE: Using a 9" cake circle (or cake plate) as a guide,
  trace a circle on each of 3 sheets of parchment paper (cut to fit the
  baking sheets) with a pencil. Turn each sheet of parchment paper over
  and place with the trace mark down on a baking sheet. Preheat the
  oven to 250~. Combine together in a sifter the confectioners' sugar,
  cornstarch, and cocoa. Sift onto the wax paper and set aside until
  needed. Heat 1" of water in the bottom half of a double boiler over
  medium-high heat. Place 8 egg whites, 3/4 cup sugar, the espresso
  powder, the cream of tartar, and the salt in the top half of the
  double boiler. Heat the egg white mixture to a temperature of 120~
  while gently and constantly whisking, about 2-3 minutes. Transfer the
  mixture to the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a balloon whip.
  Whisk on high until stiff but not dry, about 2 to 2 1/2 minutes.
  Remove the bowl from the mixer and use a rubber spatula to fold in
  the sifted dry ingredients. Fill a pastry bag (with no tip) with
  about a third of the meringue. Fill a traced circle with meringue:
  start in the center and pipe a 1/2" wide spiral toward the ouside of
  the circle. Fill the pastry bag again and repeat this procedure with
  each of the 2 remaining circles (each circle should be filled with
  about a third of the original amount of meringue.) Place the
  meringues in the preheated oven and bake for 1 hour. Reduce the oven
  temperature to 225~ and bake for an additional 2 hours. Cool on
  baking sheets for 30 minutes before handling.
    THE GANACHE: Heat 2 cups heavy cream, the butter, and 2 tablespoons
  sugar in a 2 1/2-quart saucepan over medium-high heat. When hot, stir
  to dissolve the sugar. Bring the mixture to a boil. Place 8 oz
  semi-sweet chocolate and 4 ounces unsweetened chocolate in a
  stainless bowl. Pour the boiling cream over the chocolate and allow
  to stand for 5 minutes. Stir until smooth. Reserve 1 cup of ganache
  and set aside at room temperature. Pour the remaining amount of
  ganache onto a baking sheet with sides and refrigerate for 35-40
  minutes. Pour 1/4 cup of the reserved room-temperature ganache onto
  the center of a baked meringue (supported by a cake circle). Remove
  an ice-cream disk from the freezer. Unwrap the disk and place it onto
  the puddle of ganache. Press down on the ice cream disk gently but
  firmly (this will spread the ganache). Fill a pastry bag fitted with
  a medium-sized star tip with one-third of the chilled ganache. Pipe
  about 28-30 individual vertical strips 1 1/2" long and 3/4" wide--all
  the way around the side of the ice cream disk (each strip should be
  touching the other, and each strip should also be wider at the base
  where it touches the meringue and tapered at the crest where it rises
  to the top edge of the ice cream disk). Place this section into the
  freezer and repeat the preceding procedure with another meringue and
  ice cream disk. Place in the freezer after completion for about 10-15
  minutes. Remove a meringue and ice cream section from the freezer.
  Pour 1/4 cup of room-temperature ganache onto the center of the ice
  cream. Remove the second section from the freezer, and center onto
  the first. Press down on the ice cream, gently but firmly, to spread
  the ganache. Pour the remaining 1/4 cup of room-temperature genache
  onto the top ice cream disk, and onto this ganache place the
  remaining baked meringue, once again pressing down gently but firmly
  to spread the ganache. Place the Devastation in the freezer for about
  10-15 minutes. Fill a pastry bag fitted with a medium-sized star tip
  with the remaining chilled ganache. Remove the Devastation from the
  freezer. Starting 1/2" inside the edge of the top meringue, pipe a
  ring of about 28-30 individual strips--1 1/2" long and 3/4" wide--all
  the way around the top (each strip should be touching the other, and
  each strip should also be wider at the point closest to the edge and
  tapered at the point closest to the center). Return the completed
  Devastation to the freezer for at least 1 hour before serving. To
  serve, cut the Devastation with a serrated slicer. Heat the blade of
  the slicer under hot running water before making each slice. Allow
  the slices to come
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey/chicken and Broccoli Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Poultry, Chicken, Turkey
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     20 oz Bag cut broccoli (not the
           -chopped kind), cooked 'til
           Crisp-tender and drained
           -well
      2 c  Turkey or chicken, cooked &
           -cut up
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 cn Cheddar cheese soup
    1/4 ts Curry powder
    1/4 ts Poultry seasoning
           Grinds black pepper
      1 c  Cheddar, shredded
 
  SOURCE: National Cooking Echo 05/21/90 Contributed to the echo by:
  Debra Heng
  
  your favorite casserole topping (cheese croutons, those "dreaded"
  crunchy onions, etc.)
  
  Heat soup (do not dilute) together with seasonings. In a 2 quart
  casserole, lightly oiled, layer the meat first, then the broccoli,
  the soup mixture, and the cheese. Cover and bake for 45-60 minutes at
  350F. When casserole starts to bubble, add the topping (generally
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 pk (10 oz) frozen chopped
           Spinach or equivalent
           Amount of fresh
      1 cn (10 1/2 oz) cream of
           Mushroom soup
      1 pk (8 oz) cream cheese
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 tb Margarine
      1 sm Can Durkee's French Fried
           -Onion Rings
 
  Cook the spinach according to directions, drain well. Saute onion in
  margarine, add the soup and cream cheese. Heat under low heat until
  the cheese is melted. Mix together with the spinach. Turn into a
  greased casserole.  Top with onion rings. Bake at 350 F for 30-35
  minutes.
  
  Note:  I substitute cooked mustard greens and can hardly tell the
  difference.  In fact most people still think they are eating spinach.
  
  Posted by Michael Hackmann 3/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jean Hardin's Potatoes
 Categories: Casserole, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     32 oz Frozen southern-style hash
           Browns
      1 c  Butter
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped onion (I use more)
      1 cn (10 1/2 oz) cream of
           Chicken soup
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Corn flake crumbs
 
  Cook onion in 1/2 the butter until onions are soft.  Add salt, pepper,
  soup, and sour cream.  Stir till mixed.  Pour mixture over the hash
  browns which have been placed in a greased 9x13 casserole dish. Melt
  the remaining butter and mix with the corn flake crumbs and top the
  casserole. Bake at 350 F for 35-40 minutes.
  
  Note:  I use 1/2 of the butter listed and usually use margarine. Also
  it is better to take a kitchen form and stir the mixture into the
  hash browns to sort of coat all of them.
  
  Source:  MYF Cookbook, Tice UMC, Tice, FL
  
  Posted by Michael Hackmann 3/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Chicken Bake
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Boneless Chicken Breasts,
           - split and flattened
      8    4-inch Slices of Swiss
           - Cheese
      1 cn (10-3/4 oz) Condensed Cream
           - of Broccoli Soup
    1/3 c  Milk
      1 c  Herb Stuffing Mix, crushed
    1/4 c  Butter or Margarine, melted
 
  Place chicken breasts in a greased 9 x 13-inch pan.  Top with cheese.
  Combine Cream of Broccoli Soup and milk and spread over cheese.
  
  Toss melted butter with stuffing mix and sprinkle over top of chicken.
  
  Bake in a 350-F oven for 30 minutes, or until tender.
  
  Makes 4-6 servings
  
  Source: Yankee Magazine's Great New England Food Festival Recipes
  Shared by: Norman R. Brown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Casserole Florentine
 Categories: Italian, Casserole, Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Frozen Chopped Spinach,
           - thawed and squeezed dry
      1 cn Condensed Cream of Mushroom
           - Soup
      1    Garlic Clove, minced
    1/2 ts Each:
           - Dried Tarragon
           - Marjoram
           Salt and Pepper, to taste
      4 c  Cooked Noodles, or other
           - cooked pasta
      1 lb Sweet Italian Sausage,
           - cooked, drained and
           - chopped
      1 lg Onion, coarsely chopped
      1    Egg
      1 pk (15-16 oz) Riccota Cheese
      1    Tomato, seeded and chopped
           Parsley, chopped
 
  Combine spinach, cream of mushroom soup, garlic and seasonings in a
  small bowl; spread evenly over noodles or other pasta in buttered
  3-quart flat casserole.  Distribute chopped sausage over the spinach
  mixture and sprinkle with chopped onion on top of sausage.  Blend egg
  into ricotta and spread over all.
  
  Bake in a preheated 375-F oven 25 to 30 minutes or until golden, then
  allow to cool slightly.
  
  Top with garnish of tomato and parsley.
  
  Source: Yankee Magazine's Great New England Food Festival Recipes
  Shared by: Norman R. Brown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Broccoli Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Divided margarine
      1 md Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
      3 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
      2    Chicken flavor bouillon
           Cubes
      2 cn (6.5-oz each) drained and
           Flaked tuna
      1 pk (10-oz) frozen chopped
           Thawed broccoli
      8 oz Elbow macaroni cooked 6
           Minutes and drained
  1 1/4 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
           Divided
    1/2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
 
  Spray 1 quart casserole with cooking spray. In 2 quart saucepan melt
  1/4 cup of the margarine over medium heat. Add onion; saute 3
  minutes. In small bowl stir corn starch, milk and hot pepper sauce
  until smooth; add to onions in saucepan. Add bouillon cubs. STirring
  constantly, bring to a boil and boil 1 minute. In large bowl combine
  sauce, tuna, broccoli, elbow macaroni and 1 cup of the cheese. Turn
  into prepared casserole. In small bowl combine bread crumbs,
  remaining 1/4 cup cheese and remaining 1/4 cup margarine, melted;
  sprinkle over casserole. Bake in 350 degree oven 25 minutes or until
  topping is lightly browned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato and Egg Casserole
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Green onions, chopped
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    3/4 c  Shredded sharp cheddar
           -cheese
      2 md Potatoes, cooked peeled and
           -sliced (12 slices)
      1    Hard boiled egg
      1    Tomato (6 slices)
    1/2 ts Chopped parsley
    3/4 c  Buttered bread crumbs
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 pk Graham cracker tarts (6)
 
  Saute onions in butter.  Blend in flour and cook at medium heat.
  Stir in sour cream, cheese, parsley, salt and pepper.  Layer potato
  slices in tarts.  Spread 1/2 the sour cream mixture over potatoes.
  
  Layer tomato slices and egg slices in crust. Layer the rest of the
  potatoes and sour cream mixture on top.  Sprinkle with bread crumbs
  and bake for 40-45 minutes at 350 degrees F. Before serving decorate
  with tomato and egg wedges.
  
  SOURCE: *Oneida Daily Dispatch POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 3/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach and Artichoke Casserole
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, Casserole
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Artichoke hearts, frozen
           (9oz), defrosted OR:
      1 cn Artichoke hearts (14oz)
      3 pk Chopped spinach, frozen
           (10oz), defrosted
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      4 tb Butter or olive oil
      6 tb Milk
           Pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Parmesan or romano cheese,
           -fresh grated
 
  If frozen artichokes are used, cook according to instructions. Do not
  overcook. Drain the artichokes, and place them on bottom of a 3-quart
  casserole. Squeeze as much moisture as possible from the spinach, and
  layer it on top of the artichokes. In an electric mixer blend the
  cream cheese, mayonnaise, and butter or oil until light and fluffy.
  Gradually beat in the milk, and spread this mixture over the top of
  the spinach. Sprinkle with pepper and the cheese.
  
  Bake, uncovered, at 375 degrees for 40 minutes, or until the top is
  lightly browned.
  
  You can refrigerate this dish after putting it together and before
  baking it, but if it is chilled, slightly increase the baking time.
  
  From: "The Frugal Gourmet" by Jeff Smith, Ballantine Books, 1984.
  
  Shared by June Hoffman 3/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese and Rice Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Brown Rice, cooked
      3    Green Onions (scallions),
           Chopped
      1 c  Lowfat Cottage Cheese -or-
           Hoop Cheese
      1 ts Dried Dill
    1/4 c  Parmesan Cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Lowfat Milk
 
  Combine all the ingredients in a mixing bowl.  Pour into a lightly
  oiled casserole.  Bake in a 350-degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes.
  
  Serves 4
  
  One Serving = Calories: 235 Carbohydrates: 35 Protein: 14 Fat: 4
  Sodium: 682 Potassium: 203 Cholesterol: 10
  
  Exchange Value: 2 Bread Exchanges + 1 Lean Meat Exchange + 1/2 Milk
  Exchange
  
  Source: Holiday Cookbook, American Diabetes Association, ISBN
  0-13-024894-0, by Betty Wedman, M.S.,R.D.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant/swiss Cheese Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
      6 oz Can Tomato Paste
  1 3/4 c  Water
      2 ts Dried Oregano
    1/4 c  Parsley Leaves, freshly
           -chopped -or-
      2 tb Dried Parsley Flakes
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 lg Eggplant -or- Zucchini
      1 lb Swiss Cheese, sliced
  1 1/2 c  Dry Bread Cubes
      1 c  Parmesan Cheese, grated
 
  Saute the onion in the oil in a saucepan until the onion is tender.
  Add the tomato paste, water, oregano, parsley and salt. Simmer over
  low heat for 10 minutes. Cut the eggplant (or zucchini) into
  1/4-inch-thick slices.
  
  Arrange one layer of eggplant slices in the bottom of a lightly-oiled
  9- by 13 inch baking pan.  Pour on about 1/3 cup of the tomato sauce.
  Top with the Swiss cheese slices.
  
  Add another layer of eggplant slices and pour on about 1/2 cup of the
  tomato sauce. Combine the rest of the sauce with the bread cubes and
  spoon over the eggplant. Sprinkle on the Parmesan Cheese. Bake in a
  325-degree oven for about 25 minutes.
  
  Serves 6
  
  One Serving = Calories: 385 Carbohydrates: 17 Protein: 26 Fat: 26
  Sodium: 497 Potassium: 471 Cholesterol: 72
  
  Exchange Value: 3 High-Fat Meat Exchanges + 1 Bread Exchange + 1 Fat
  Exchange
  
  Source: Holiday Cookbook, American Diabetes Association, ISBN
  0-13-024894-0, by Betty Wedman, M.S.,R.D.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus-Cheese Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      1 ts Unsalted butter
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 ts Ground mace
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
 10 1/2 oz Frozen asparagus spears
           Cooked according to the
           Package directions
           And drained well.
      2 lg Eggs, hard-cooked
           Peeled & coarsely chopped
    3/4 c  Grated sharp Cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Minced blanched almonds
      1 c  Soft white bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. In a medium saucepan set over moderate heat,
  melt the butter. Spoon 4 teaspoons of the melted butter into a bowl.
  Set aside. Blend the flour, salt, pepper and mace into the rest of
  the butter and let it sit over low heat for 1-to-2 minutes. Add the
  milk and cream and cook the sauce, stirring constantly for about 3
  minutes, until it has become thick and smooth. In a well-buttered,
  2-quart casserole, alternate layers of the asparagus, eggs, Cheddar
  cheese and almonds. Pour the cream sauce over the layers. Combine the
  reserved butter, bread crumbs and Parmesan cheese and scatter the
  topping over the layers. Combine the reserved butter, bread crumbs
  and Parmesan cheese and scatter the topping over the surface of the
  casserole. Bake the uncovered casserole for about 30 minutes, or
  until the sauce is bubbly and the topping is tipped with brown.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Ala Can-Can
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Ingredients:
      1 c  Diced or chopped chicken,
           -cooked
      1 cn Cream celery soup
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 cn Chicken broth
  1 1/3 c  Minute rice
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ds Of tabasco
    1/3 c  Sherry
           Salt and pepper
    1/2 cn French onion rings
 
  Directions: Mix all ingredients except french onion rings in
  casserole and place in oven heated to 325 degrees for 7 minutes.
  Sprinkle french onion rings on top and bake for 7 more minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Madras
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Ingredients:
      3    Onions sliced thinly
      4    Apples, peeled, cored and
           -thinly sliced
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Curry powder
      1    Frying chicken, cut up
 
  Directions: In 3 qt casserole, mix together onion and apples and
  sprinkle with salt and curry powder. Mix well. Arrange chicken skin
  down over mixture. sprinkle generously with paprika. Bake uncovered
  at 400 degrees about 45 minutes or until chicken is cooked through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Casserole
 Categories: Beef, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           *------Ingredients:*
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2    Onion, chopped
    1/2    Green pepper, chopped
      2 c  Raw egg noodles
      1    Jar pizza sauce (commercial
           -or your own)
      1 c  Water
      1 pk Pepperoni, sliced
 
  Directions: Layer in order ingredients listed above in casserole.
  Cover with plastic wrap and microwave for 5 minutes on high. Remove
  stir and replace and microwave 5 minutes on high. Sprinkle mozzarelli
  cheese liberally on top and let stand until cheese melts. Note: Can
  be prepared in oven by cooking noodles and omitting water. Cook at
  350 degrees until bubbly, about 40 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasticcio Di Maccheroni
 Categories: Greek, Casserole, Main dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1 md Onion; finely chopped
      1 sm Green onion; minced
      1    Celery stalk; finely chopped
      1    Carrot; finely chopped
      2 ts Salt
           A little pepper
 26 1/2 oz Ground beef
      2 md Tomatoes; chopped
      2    Egg whites
  1 1/8 lb #1 or #2 macaroni or pennaki
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2 c  Grated cheese

MMMMM-----------------------BECHAMEL SAUCE----------------------------
      3 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Flour
 2 3/16 lb Milk
           Salt & pepper
      2    Egg yolks
 
  Saute the onion, green onion, celery and carrot in the butter until
  tender. Add the salt, pepper, ground beef and a few spoons of water.
  Saute a few minutes and add the tomatoes.  Leave the meat with the
  sauce to simmer for 1/2 an hour.  Remove from the heat and add the
  lightly beaten egg whites.
  
  Boil 4 kilos water with a tablespoon salt.  Put in the macaroni and
  leave it to boil for 10 minutes.  Add one cup cold water and then
  drain the macaroni.
  
  While macaroni is cooking, prepare the Bechamel Sauce:  Put the 3
  tablespoons butter and the flour into a saucepan.  Stir over slow fire
  until smooth.  Add the milk, gradually, whisking with a wire whisk or
  electric mixer.  Continue cooking until sauce thickens.  Remove from
  the fire and add salt and pepper to taste (optionally, grated nutmeg
  is also good).  Lightly beat the egg yolks, then add a few spoonfuls
  of the hot sauce to them, and mix well.  Then add the egg yolks to
  the the rest of the Bechamel sauce, mixing them in well.  Set aside.
  
  Put the unsalted butter into the macaroni and then put half the
  macaroni into a rectangular baking pan.    Sprinkle with plenty of
  grated cheese and then cover with the meat.  Put the remaining
  macaroni on top and cover with cheese.  Pour the Bechamel Sauce over.
  Bake for about 40 minutes in a medium oven.  Cut into squares when
  slighly cooled and serve.
  
  Source: Misko Ltd. Athens Greece Translation by: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Casserole, Lone Star
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Chickens--breasts, thighs, &
           Drumsticks from both
           Flour, salt, & pepper mixed
           Ginger to taste
      6    Carrots, peeled & quartered
      4 tb Margarine
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Water
      1    (10-3/4) can beef bouillon
      1 tb Catsup
      1 tb Worscestershire sauce
      2    Bay leaves
      6    Small, peeled onions
      6    Potatoes, peeled & quartered
      8 oz Mushrooms, sauteed
      1    (8 oz) can english peas
 
  Mix flour, salt, pepper and ginger and dredge chicken pieces in the
  seasoned flour. Brown the floured chicken in a skillet with 4
  tablespoons of melted margarine. Remove pieces when brown and save
  the drippings. Put chicken pieces in a large casserole.
   Add flour to the drippings, making a paste.  Stir in water, beef
  bouillon, catsup, Worcestershire sauce, bay leaves and whole onions.
  Pour over chicken and bake at 350~F. degrees for 45 minutes. Add
  potatoes, carrots, and mushrooms.  Bake 35 minutes more.  Add peas
  and bake 10 minutes longer. SERVES 6
       SOURCE: Lone Star Legacy
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cottage Cheese Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Thinly sliced carrots
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 tb Reduced calorie margarine
    1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1    (8 ounce) package noodles,
           -cooked and drained
      2 c  Low-fat cottage cheese
    1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Yield 12 servings - 1/2 C ea. Each serving may be exchanged for: 1
  Bread, 1 Low-Fat Meat
  
  Parsley sprigs (optional)
  
  Combine carrots, onion and margarine in non-stick skillet; cook on
  medium heat until tender. Add mushrooms and cook 5 minutes; set aside
  Combine remaining ingredients, except parsley, in large bowl; stir in
  cooked vegetables. Turn mixture into nonstick 2 Qt. casserole. Cover
  and bake at 350 for 30 minutes or until bubbly. Garnish with parsley
  before serving, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ham and Corn Casserole
 Categories: Pork, Casserole
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 tb Reduced-calorie margarine
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1    (20 oz.) can whole kernel
           -corn, drained
    1/4 c  Shopped onion
    1/4 c  Shopped green pepper
      2 c  Cubed lean cooked ham
      1 c  Breadcrumbs
      1 c  Gratedlow-fat process
           -American cheese
           Make white sauce of
           -margarine, flour and milk
           -(see below)
           Stir in mustard, salt,
           -pepper, and Worcestershire
           -sauce
           Add corn, onion, green
           -pepper and ham
           Pour mixture into nonstick
           -casserole
           Top with breadcrumbs and
           -cheese
           Bake at 375 for 25 minutes
           -or until bubbly.
           ****************************
           -***************************
           -****
           White Sauce
           Yield: 1 cup
           Each serving: 2 Tbsp
           Free Food (1 serving per
           -day)
      1 tb Reduced-calorie margarine
      1 tb All purpose flour
      1 c  Skim milk
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Yield: 8 servings  3/4 C ea. Each serving may be exchanged for: 1
  Bread, 2 Medium-fat Meat, 1 Vegetable
  
  Melt margarine in saucepan
  
  Blend in flour slowly
  
  Remove from heat
  
  Add milk, stirring constantly
  
  Return to low heat and stir slowly but steadily until sauce boils
  
  Add salt
  
  Remove from heat
  
  Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quickie Pasta Bake
 Categories: Casserole, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Pasta; penne, rotini or she
      1 tb Oil; vegetable
      1    Onion; chopped
      1 cn Tomatoes; 28 oz, crushed or
      1 ts Oregano; dried
           -Salt & pepper
      2 c  Cheese; grated, any type
 
     Preheat oven to 325F. Cook on pasta on stove and drain. Meanwhile,
  heat oil in saucepan. Add onion and garlic, saute till soft (about 5
  minutes). Add tomatoes, oregano, salt and pepper, cook till heated
  through, about 5 minutes. Combine cooked pasta, sauce and 1 /2 cups
  grated cheese in ovenproof dish. Sprinkle remaining cheese on top.
  Bake 15-20 minutes at 350F. omit onions and garlic for even quicker
  rendition from The Toronto Sun posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice and Broccoli Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Celery; chopped
      2 tb Oleo
      1 c  Rice
      1 pk Broccoli; frozen
      1 cn Soup, cream of mushroom
      1 cn Soup, cream of chicken
    1/2 lb Pasteurized process cheese
 
  Servings:  6
  
  Saute onion and celery in oleo until soft.  Cook rice and broccoli
  sepa- rately according to package directions.  Mix all ingredients
  together in a two-quart baking dish.  Bake at 375 F. for 30 to 40
  minutes.
  
  This may be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator.
  
  Alda Arthur Comanche Study Club Cookbook Comanche, TX, 1987
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Squash Lasagna
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Squash,yellow crookneck
      1 lb Zucchini
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper
      6 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 lb Italian sausage,no casings
  1 1/2 c  Spaghetti sauce,canned
    1/2 c  Monterey Jack cheese,shreded
  1 1/2 c  Cottage cheese,low-fat
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese,grated
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs
      1 ts Butter,melted
 
  1. Slice squash into 1/2-inch-thick pieces; sprinkle with salt and
  pepper.
  
  2. Saute squash in butter in a skillet over medium heat; drain and set
  aside.
  
  3. Add sausage to skillet; cook until browned, stirring until crumbly.
  Drain of excess fat.
  
  4. Add spaghetti sauce to meat; simmer until thickened, about 10
  minutes.
  
  5. Layer half the vegetables, meat sauce, Jack cheese and cottage
  cheese in a 12x7-inck baking dish.
  
  6. Repeat layering; top with Parmesan cheese and bread crumbs mixed
  with melted butter.
  
  7. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 30 to 35 minutes, or until bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Briami - Greek Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Side dish, Casserole, Greek
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Eggplant
      2 lb Zucchini
      4 md Potatoes
      2    Green peppers
      1    Red pepper
      2 md Onions
      1 c  Olive oil
      4 md Tomatoes
      2    Garlic cloves
      1 ts Sugar
           Salt & pepper; to taste
 
  (1)  Prepare the vegetables: Cut the eggplant, zucchini  and  potatoes
     in  bite sized chunks (do not peel the zucchini or the eggplant).
     Remove the stems and seeds from the peppers and slice  them  into
     strips. Peel and slice the onions. Dice the tomatoes.
  
  (2)  Saute' the vegetables except the tomatoes  in  the  olive  oil
  in
     small  batches.  Saut' each batch for 2 or 3 minutes, then remove
     from the pan, trying to drain some of the oil so that enough  oil
     is  left  for the next batch. When you're done, most (if not all)
     of the oil should be gone from the pan.
  
  (3)  Place the saute'ed vegetables in a  baking  dish  and  toss  them
     briefly  so  that you won't get only one kind of vegetable in one
     place.
  
  (4)  Add the tomatoes into the pan and saut' for a couple of  minutes.
     Crush the garlic and add to the tomatoes. Add the sugar, salt and
     pepper to taste and simmer for another minute.
  
  (5)  Pour the tomato sauce on top of the vegetables and  bake  at  350
     deg. F or until the vegetables are tender.
  
  (6)  Serve with plenty of fresh bread and,  if  you  like,  some  feta
     cheese on the side.
  
  RATING Difficulty: easy. Time: 30-45 minutes preparation, 1 hour
  baking. Precision: No need to measure.
  
  CONTRIBUTOR Kriton Kyrimis Princeton University, Computer Science
  Dept., Princeton, New Jersey, USA kyrimis@princeton.edu
  allegra!princeton!kyrimis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Spinach
 Categories: Vegetable, Appetizer, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      8 oz Cream Cheese
      2 pk Frozen Spinach
      1 pk Lipton Onion Soup Mix
           Breadcrumbs
 
  Melt butter in a large frying pan.  Add 2 packages of spinach.  Break
  up and stir.  Add cream cheese and onion soup mix.  Stir well.  Place
  in a casserole.  Top with breadcrumbs and bake at 300oF for 45
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach and Artichoke Casseroles:
 Categories: Vegetable, Casserole
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Artichoke hearts, frozen
           -(9oz), defrosted
           OR:
      1 cn Artichoke hearts (14oz)
      3 pk Chopped spinach, frozen
           -(10oz), defrosted
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      4 tb Butter or olive oil
      6 tb Milk
           Pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Parmesan or romano cheese,
           -fresh grated
 
  Serves 10
  
  If frozen artichokes are used, cook according to instructions. Do not
  overcook. Drain the artichokes, and place them on bottom of a 3-quart
  casserole. Squeeze as much moisture as possible from the spinach, and
  layer it on top of the artichokes. In an electric mixer blend the
  cream cheese, mayonnaise, and butter or oil until light and fluffy.
  Gradually beat in the milk, and spread this mixture over the top of
  the spinach. Sprinkle with pepper and the cheese.
  
  Bake, uncovered, at 375 degrees for 40 minutes, or until the top is
  lightly browned.
  
  You can refrigerate this dish after putting it together and before
  baking it, but if it is chilled, slightly increase the baking time.
  
  Serves 10 to 12.
  
  From: "The Frugal Gourmet" by Jeff Smith, Ballantine Books, 1984.
  
  Shared by June Hoffman 3/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Beef
 Categories: Casserole, Beef
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------LISA HLAVATY-----------------------------
      2 lb Round steak;cut into 1/2
           Inch cubes
      3 tb Oil
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      1    Clove garlic; minced
      3 tb Flour
      3 oz Can of mushrooms; undrained
    1/2 c  Chopped celery
      1 c  Sour cream
      8 oz Tomato sauce
      1 ts Salt
           Pepper
           Chopped celery, for garnish
           Chopped chives; for garnish
 
  In a large saucepan, heat oil. Add beef. Brown. Add onion and garlic.
  cook, stirring, until onions are transparent. Add flour, stirring
  until beef cubes are coated. Add mushrooms with juice and celery. In
  a small bowl, combine remaining ingredients. Mix well. Pour over
  meat. Toss well. Remove from heat. Turn mixture into a greased 2
  quart casserole dish.Cover. Bake at 325 for 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours
  until meat is tender. Sprinkle with chopped celery and chives.
  Source: MGR recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tony's Manicotti with Four Cheeses
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Onion; minced
      1 lb Mushrooms, sliced
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Flour
      4 c  Milk
  1 1/2 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
     12    Manicotti shells
      1 lb Ricotta
      4 oz Mozzarella cheese, diced
    1/2 c  Romano cheese, grated
    1/4 c  Walnuts, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
      3    Eggs
      1 ds Nutmeg
 
  1. Saute onion and mushrooms in butter 5 minutes; stir in flour. 2.
  Gradually stir in milk; stir over low heat until sauce bubbles and
  thickens. 3. Stir in 1 cup Parmesan cheese and salt and pepper to
  taste; set aside. 4. Cook manicotti shells according to package
  directions; drain and cover with cold water. 5. Mix together ricotta,
  mozzarella, Romano and remaining Parmesan cheese; add walnuts,
  parsley and eggs. 6. Season to taste with salt, pepper and nutmeg. 7.
  Drain manicotti shells; stuff with cheese mixture. 8. Place shells
  side by side in a greased shallow baking pan; spoon sauce over all.
  9. Bake in preheated 400'F. oven 20 to 25 minutes, or until bubbly
  and golden.
  
  Posted by Fred Towner
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Viennese Puff
 Categories: Casserole, Pork
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 c  Bread crumbs
      1 lb Sausage meat
      3 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 sm Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Grated Cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Milk
      1    Egg, fork beaten
 
  Sprinkle crumbs evenly over bottom of baking dish about 8 x 8 inches.
  Pat sausage meat on waxed paper to size of dish. Invert over crumbs
  and remove paper. Cover. Bake in 350 F oven for 30 minutes. Drain off
  as much fat as you can manage without disturbing meat.
  
  While meat is cooking, melt butter in medium size saucepan. Add curry,
  salt, pepper, onion and cheese. Stir until cheese is melted. Stir in
  flour. Add milk and beaten egg. Stir vigorously until thickened. It
  will be thick. Remove from heat.
  
  When ready, remove sausage meat from oven. Drain. Spread mixture
  evenly over the meat. Leave uncovered. Return to oven and bake at 400
  F for 30 minutes until golden brown. Serves 3-4. Recipe can be
  doubled and baked in 9 x 13 inch pan.
  
  Source: Company's Coming: Casseroles By Jean Pare'
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Pacific
 Categories: Casserole, Beef
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Cooking oil
      2 lb Ground beef
      1 md Chopped onion
    1/4 ts Garlic powder or
           Minced garlic clove
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Pepper
     10 oz Sliced mushrooms, drained
     10 oz Cream of tomato soup
     14 oz Cream corn
      2 c  Fresh chop suey vegetables
      3 c  Cooked noodles
 
  Paprika
  
  Heat oil in frying pan. Add next 5 ingredients. Saute until no trace
  of pink remains in meat. Turn off heat. Drain and discard fat.
  
  Add mushrooms, soup and corn to meat. Stir. Empty in 2 quart
  casserole.
  
  Spread chop suey vegetables over meat mixture.
  
  Prepare noodles as directed on package. Drain. Arrange over
  vegetables. Sprinkle with Paprika for colour. Cover. Bake in 350 F
  oven for 40 minutes until hot. Serves 8.
  
  Source: Company's Coming: Casseroles By Jean Pare'
  
  Shared by Kaitiln Young
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Hash
 Categories: Casserole, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Cooking oil
  1 1/4 lb Ground beef
    3/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Sage
      3 tb All purpose flour
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Curry powder
 
  Combine oil, ground beef and onion in frying pan. Brown, stirring
  frequently to break up. Sprinkle with salt, pepper and sage.
  
  Stir in flour until well mixed with meat mixture. Add milk all at
  once. Stir as it boils and thickens. Stir in curry powder. Add more
  liquid if needed, especially when reheating. Ready to eat or put in
  casserole. Cover. Bake in 350 F oven for 20 minutes. Serve with rice
  or oodles of noodles.
  
  Source: Company's Coming: Casseroles By Jean Pare'
  
  Shared by Kaitlin Young
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Wild Rice Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Ingredients:
      1 c  Uncooked wild rice
      1    Stick margarine or butter
      1 sm Can sliced mushrooms
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 sm Jar pimento, diced
           -(optional)
           Salt and pepper
      1    Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      2 c  Pheasant, cooked, diced
      2 tb Parsley flakes
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds
 
  Directions: Prepare wild rice according to package directions. Saute
  onion in butter until tender. Remove from heat; stir in flour until
  smooth. Drain mushrooms reserving liquid. Add enough broth to liquid
  to measure 1 1/2 cups. Gradual stir into flour mixture, add milk,
  cook stirring constantly until thick. Add rice, mushrooms, pheasant,
  pimento, parsley, salt and pepper. Place in 2-quart. casserole.
  Sprinkle with almonds. Bake at 350 degrees for 25-30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Ribs Oriental
 Categories: Casserole, Meat, Pork
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Pork spare ribs
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1    Beef bouillon cube
    3/4 c  Water,boiling
      1 ts Oil
      1 cn Pineapple,crushed,undrained
    1/4 c  Brown sugar,dark,firm packed
      1 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Water,cold
 
  1. Cut ribs to form individual portions; sprinkle with 1 teaspoon
  salt.
  
  2. Place ribs on a rack in a shallow baking pan; bake in preheated
  375'F. oven until almost tender, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Drain off fat.
  
  3. Meanwhile, dissolve bouillon cube in boiling water in a medium-size
  saucepan.
  
  4. Add oil, pineapple, brown sugar, onion powder, garlic powder,
  Worcestershire sauce and remaining salt; bring to a boil.
  
  5. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 5 minutes.
  
  6. Combine cornstarch with cold water in a small bowl; stir into sauce
  mixture. Cook and stir until thickened.
  
  7. Spoon sauce over drained, baked ribs.
  
  8. Increase oven temperature to 425'F.; bake until nicely glazed,
  about 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Mushroom Pie with Dill Crust
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Chicken; diced cooked
      1 c  Cream of celery soup
      2    Jars Mushrooms; (2.5 oz. eac
    1/2 c  Celery; sliced
    1/2 c  Green pepper; diced
      1 ts Steak sauce
    1/2 ts Marjoram; crumbled
    1/2 pk Piecrust mix
    1/2 ts Dillweed
 
  DIRECTIONS: Combine chicken, celery soup, mushrooms with liquid,
  celery, green pepper, steak sauce and marjoram in a large skillet.
  Heat slowly until bubbly hot, about 10 minutes. Turn into a 4-cup
  shallow baking dish. Prepare piecrust mix, following label
  directions, adding dillweed with wa- ter.  Roll out to fit top of
  baking dish; cover pie; turn edge under, flush with rim; flute.  Cut
  a 6-inch "X" in center of pastry. Fold corners back. Bake in a very
  hot oven (450^F.) for 20 minutes or until crust is golden brown. Let
  stand 10 minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spam-Mac Casserole
 Categories: Meat, Casserole
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Ingredients:
      1    (7 oz.) pkg. elbow macaroni
      2 tb Margarine or butter
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Frozen peas and carrots
     14 ts Pepper
      2 c  Milk
      1 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
      1 cn (12oz.) Spam, cubed
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Dijon mustard
           Buttered bread crumbs
 
  Directions: Prepare elbow macaroni according to package directions;
  drain. In medium saucepan, melt butter. Add oni9n, cook until tender.
  Stir in flour, mustard and pepper.  Blend in milk.  Cook, stirring
  constantly, until thickened and bubbly.  Add cheese; stir until
  melted.  Combine macaroni, Spam, peas and carrots, and cheese sauce.
  Pour into a 3-quart baking dish.  Top with bread crumbs.  Bake in 350
  degree oven until hot and bubbly, about 30 minutes.  Refrigerate
  leftovers.  6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linda Kaysen's Mixed Bean Casserole
 Categories: Meat, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Ingredients:
      1 cn (16 oz.) French style green
           -beans, drained
      1 cn (16 oz.) lima or northern
           -beans, drained
      1 cn (16 oz.) kidney beans,
           -drained
      1 cn (16 oz.) pork and beans
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 cn (12 oz.) spam and cubed
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Ketchup
      1 tb Mollasses
      1    Green pepper, diced
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      4 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Dried mustard
 
  Directions: Combine all ingredients in a 3-quart casserole pan. Bake
  in a slow oven (about 300-325) for two hours. Cool for 10 minutes
  before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vericheesey Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Rice, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 ts Vegetable oil
      1 c  Chopped onion
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 c  Chopped mushrooms
      1 ts EACH dried basil, thyme,
           -marjoram, and cumin
      2 c  Cooked beans
      2 c  Cooked brown rice
      3    Eggs, slightly beaten
      2 c  Low fat cottage/ricotta
           -cheese (or combination)
    1/4 c  Crumbled Feta cheese
           -(optional)
      2 tb Soy sauce
           Salt
           Black pepper
           Cayenne to taste
      2 md Tomatoes, sliced
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
    1/2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Heat oil in large skillet; saute onion, garlic
  and mushrooms until onion is nearly soft.  Add all remaining
  ingredients except final three.  Mix well and spread mixture in a
  large greased or sprayed shallow baking dish. Arranged tomato slices
  over the top. Mix together parmesan and crumbs and sprinkle over
  tomatoes. Bake for 40 minutes. Makes 8 servings.
  
  Origin: Appeal, Quarterly magazine put out by Overwaitea and Save on
  Foods. Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Rice Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Rice, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Instant rice
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
    1/2 pk Dry onion soup
  1 1/2 cn Water
      1 c  Whole chicken
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Mix all ingredients except chicken in a 9 x 13-inch baking pan. Add
  cut up chicken parts, skin side up. Bake covered 2 hours at 350
  degrees or 3 hours at 300 degrees.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef, Brown Rice and Feta Casserole
 Categories: Beef, Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Dried mushrooms
      2 c  Cooked brown rice
  1 1/2 c  Cooked beef chunks
      3 oz Crumbled feta cheese
      6    Pitted black olives
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
      1    Chopped onion
      1 tb Oil
  1 1/2 c  Canned tomatos
      1    Minced garlic clove
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Freshly ground pepper
  
  Put the dried mushrooms in 1/2 cup hot water and let stand 20 minutes.
  Saute the onion in the oil slowly for 5 minutes, then add the tomatos
  and garlic, and let cook gently uncovered about 10 minutes. Pepper to
  taste, then add the dried mushrooms, cut in quarters if large, with
  any tough stems removed, and the mushroom soaking liquid. Cook
  another 5 minutes. Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Line the bottom of 1
  1/2 qt casserole with 1 cup of the rice, add the cooked beef, and
  strew over the top the feta cheese, the olives, and half the sauce.
  Add the remaining rice and the rest of the sauce, and sprinkle with
  Parmesan. bake 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corned Beef Casserole
 Categories: Beef, Casserole
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Uncooked elbow macaroni
      2 cn Chicken and mushroom soup
  2 1/2 c  Milk
     12 oz Canned corned beef
  1 1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
      2 sm Sauteed onions
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Mix all ingredients and let stand overnight in refrigerator or for at
  least 12 hours. Cover with buttered crumbs and pour into a large
  casserole. Bake 1 1/2 hours at 350 degrees.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Steak Casserole
 Categories: Pork, Casserole
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Cubed pork steaks
  2 1/2 ts Flour
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 c  Milk
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Carrots sliced thin Onions sliced thin Potatoes sliced thin
  
  Brown steaks well in frying pan. Remove meat - add flour, soup and
  milk to fry pan and simmer a few minutes. layer in casserole the
  potatoes and carrots and onions. Top with meat and season with salt
  and pepper. Top with soup mixture and bake at 350 degrees about 1 1/
  2 hour or until done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Corn Casserole
 Categories: Beef, Casserole
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Hamburger
      1    Diced medium onion
      8 oz Pkg cooked noodles
     12 oz Can corn
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Salt and pepper to taste
  
  Brown hamburger and onion. Layer noodles, corn and hamburger in
  buttered casserole. Cover with soup. Repeat layers. Season with salt
  and pepper. White sauce may be used with soup. bake for 1 hour at 350
  degrees. Makes 6-8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerkraut Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Italian sausage, mild
           -cut into 1-inch slices
      1    Onion, lg. -chopped
      2    Apples; peeled and quartered
      1 cn Sauerkraut, 27oz; undrained
      1 c  -water
    1/2 c  Brown sugar; packed
      2 ts Caraway seed
 
   In a skillet, cook sausage and onion until sausage is brown and
  onion is tender; drain. Stir in apples, sauerkraut, water, brown
  sugar and caraway seed. Transfer to a 2-1/2 quart baking dish.
   Cover and bake at 350F for 1 hour. Garnish with snipped parsley if
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Chicken Potpies
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Roasting chicken (OR two 2
           -1/2 Lb)
      1 lg Onion, peeled and quartered
      3    Leafy celery tops
      3    Sprigs fresh parsley
      1 ts Salt
     10    Peppercorns
      1    Bay leaf
      2 c  Water
           PASTRY:
      2 c  All-purpose flour, insifted
    3/4 c  Shortening
           Ice water
      1 lb Small carrots, pared, cut
           -1/2-inch long
    1/2 pk Frozen pearl onions (1/2 Lb)
      2 lg Celery stalks, diagonal cut
           -1/4-inch long
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour, unsifted
    3/4 ts Poultry seasoning
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lg Egg yolk, beaten with 1 Tbl
           -water
 
  STOCK:
  
  STOCK:  Place chicken in 6-quart kettle along with the rest of stock
  ingredients.  Bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce heat; simmer,
  covered, for about 1 hour, or until chicken is tender.  (About 45
  minutes with 2 smaller chickens.)
  
  Meanwhile, make pastry.  In medium bowl stir flour and salt together.
  With pastry blender, cut in shortening until mixture resembles coarse
  cornmeal. Sprinkle 1 tablespoon of ice water at a time, over all of
  pastry mixture, tossing lightly with a fork after each addition and
  pushing dampened portion to side of bowl; sprinkle only dry portion
  remaining. Pastry should be just moist enough to hold together, not
  sticky. (4 to 6 tablespoons ice water.) Shape into a ball; flatten
  and wrap in plastic wrap; refrigerate until ready to use.
  
  Remove chicken from kettle to bowl; cool until easy to handle.
  Discard skin and bones.  Cut chicken meat into 1-inch pieces (4 to 5
  cups). Strain stock into large saucepan.  Bring to a boil.  Add
  carrots, pearl onions, and celery.  Cook, covered, for 5 to 10
  minutes, until vegetables are just tender.  In 2-cup measuring cup,
  measure milk; whisk in flour, poultry seasoning, salt, and pepper
  until smooth.  Stir into vegetable-stock mixture; bring to a boil,
  stirring constantly.  Reduce heat; boil 1 minute. Add cut-up chicken;
  mix well.  Divide mixture among six 1 1/3-cup casseroles or seperate
  baking dishes.  Preheat oven to 400F.
  
  Remove pastry from refrigerator.  On lightly floured surface, cut
  pastry into 6 equal pieces.  Flatten and evenly roll each piece to a
  circle the same diameter as the top of a casserole.  Cut a cross, 1
  1/2 inch across, in the center of each.  Lightly moisten edges of
  casseroles with pastry brush and water.  Place pastry circles on top
  of each casserole. Use knife tip to turn back the four corners in
  center of pastry, exposing filling. Firmly press edge of pastry to
  casserole with table fork. Place casseroles on large baking tray or
  rimmed cookie sheet. Bake for 30 minutes or until filling is bubbly.
  Remove from oven. Brush crusts with egg yolk mixture. Return to oven;
  bake for 5 minutes longer, or until pastry is golden-brown.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
  
  [McCall's COOKING SCHOOL No 12] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mirliton El Casserole
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Beef, Casserole
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ground beef
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Onion,chopped
      1 tb Green bell pepper,chopped
      2 c  Mirlitons,chopped(2 med)
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Parsley,chopped
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs
 
  1. In skillet, brown meat in vegetable oil.
  2. Add onion, bell pepper, mirlitons, salt and pepper; cook slowly
  until well done (about 30 minutes).
  3. Fill buttered casserole with mirliton mixture, mixing in parsley.
  4. Top with bread crumbs and bake in preheated 350'F. oven 20
  minutes.
  NOTE: Squash may be substituted for mirlitons.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Delish
 Categories: Casserole, Main dish, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter
      1    Egg, unbeaten
    1/2 c  Milk

MMMMM----------------------CHICKEN FILLING---------------------------
      3 c  Chicken, cooked
      1 c  Ham, cooked
      8 oz Mushroom stems & pieces,
           Drained
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Almonds, toasted, sliced

MMMMM---------------------------BROTH--------------------------------
      2 c  Chicken broth, hot
      1 c  Cream, light
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Allspice
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Sift together flour, baking powder and salt into mixing bowl.  Cut in
  butter until particles are fine.  Combine egg with milk.  Add to dry
  ingredients; stir until dough is formed.  divide into 2 parts, one
  slightly larger.  Roll out larger piece on floured surface to a
  15X12-inch rectangle.  fit into an ungreased 12X8-inch baking dish,
  pressing dough against sides and bottom of dish.
  
  CHICKEN FILLING:  Combine chicken, ham, mushroom pieces, flour and
  almonds. Turn into pastry-lined pan.  Roll out remaining dough to a
  12X7-inch rectangle.  Cut lengthwise into 1-inch strips.  Place 4
  strips lengthwise over filling.  Cut remaining strips in half and
  place crosswise over filling making a lattice top.
  
  BROTH:  Combine broth, cream, salt, nutmeg, allspice and pepper.
  Pour over lattice top.
  
  Bake at 375 degrees for 45 to 50 minutes until golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Pot Pie
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole, Poultry, Turkey, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Mushroooms, sliced
  1 1/2 c  Dressing, Miracle Whip
      2 tb Dressing, Miracle Whip
      2 c  Chicken or turkey, cooked,
           Chopped
     10 oz Vegetables, mixed, frozen,
           Thawed and drained
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Basil, leaves, dried
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Cheese, cheddar, shredded
      2 c  Potatoes, mashed, hot
 
  Cook mushrooms and onions in 2 tb dressing over med-high heat.  Add
  flour and seasonings; gradually add milk, stirring until thickened.
  Stir in 1 cup dressing, turkey, vegetables and 1 cup cheese; cook 5
  minutes.  spoon mixture into 1 1/2 quart cassrole.  Stir 1/2 cup
  dressing into potatoes. Top casserole with potato mixture; broil
  until golden.  Sprinkle with remaining cheese; broil until cheese
  begins to melt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Auntie's Chicken Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Macaroni, uncooked
      4    Eggs, hardboiled, chopped
      2 c  Chicken, cooked, chopped
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 lb Cheese, velveeta or preferen
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
 
  Mix all the ingredients together and refrigerate overnight, be sure to
  cover.  take out 1 hour before cooking.  Bake 1 hour at 350.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pennsylvania Chicken Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 pk Noodles, egg, cooked
      3 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Pepper, green, chopped
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Cheese, cheddar, shredded
      2 c  Chicken, cooked, chopped
      1 cn Mushroom pieces, small
      4 oz Pimento, drained, diced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Almonds, toasted, slivere
 
  In a large skillet, heat oil.  Add celery, peppers and onion.  Cook
  until tender.  Stir in soup, milk, sour cream and cheese.  heat on
  low until cheese melts.  Combine noodles, cheese sauce, chicken,
  mushrooms, pimento and seasonings.  Pour into 3-qt baking dish and
  top with almonds.  Bake in 350 oven for 40 minutes or until hot and
  bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brisket of Beef
 Categories: Main dish, Beef, Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Brisket
      1 c  Stewed tomatoes
      1    Onion soup mix
      2 c  Water
      6    Ginger snap cookies.
           Salt & pepper; to taste
 
  Walt:  I have a great recipe for brisket of beef.  It is easy, makes
  its' own great gravy and tastes even better as leftovers. This can be
  cooked either in slow cooker or the oven. Either way, put in the
  brisket, mix the onion soup with 2 cups of water and pour it over the
  meat. Pour the can of stewed tomatoes over the brisket. Place the
  cookies in the liquid, not on the meat.  You can break them up to
  fit. Seal the pan securely with aluminum foil. (If in a slow cooker
  just put on the lid.) Bake at 325 for three hours without peeking !!
  Take out the meat, and slice it thinly against the grain and return
  it to the pan with the gravy. Reseal and bake at 225 for about one
  hour. Make sure all the meat slices are covered by the liquid so the
  meat does not dry out. This is tender and delicious. The gravy is
  great over rice or wide noodles. FROM: BARBARA ZEGER (BNTH32A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese-Beef Casserole Pie
 Categories: Beef, Casserole, Cheese/eggs, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 sm Package cream cheese
      1    Can mushroom soup
      1 c  Canned corn with pimento
      1 pk Refrigerated bisquits
 
  Brown ground beef in skillet; drain. Mix all but biscuits. Pour in 2
  quart casserole. Top with bisquits. Bake at 350 for about 20 minutes.
  Source: Nancy Alexander (PBJF04B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lavinna Chicken
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Boneless chicken breasts,
           Skinned
      1    Can cream of mushroom soup
    3/4 c  Broth
      1 c  Sour cream
           Dash of garlic
           Dash of onion
           Dash of curry
      1    Jar whole mushrooms
           Paprika
 
  In a bowl mix soup, broth, sour cream, spices and mushrooms (drained).
  Place chicken in a shallow baking dish, do not overlap. Pour sauce
  over top. Sprinkle with paprika. Bake at 350 for 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Breast of Chicken Excelsior
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Chicken breast halves,
           Boned and skinned
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine, melted
           Garlic salt
      1 ts Paprika
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Sour cream, room temp.
    1/2 c  Sherry or broth
      8 oz Canned mushroom pieces,
           Drained
           Dash of pepper

MMMMM----------------11/25 08:41 AM:  BEST TO YOU---------------------
 
  Preheat oven to 375. Sprinkle chicken with garlic salt to taste. Mix
  together melted margarine or butter, paprika and lemon juice. Brush
  chicken well with butter mixture and place in shallow baking pan.
  Bake, tented with foil, about 30 minutes or until tender, brushing
  with remaining butter mixture occasionally to keep from drying. In a
  bowl, blend together sour cream, sherry or broth, mushrooms, and
  pepper. Pour over chicken for last 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean and Sausage Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen
      1 pk Frozen Lima Beans; 10oz
      1 cn Baked Beans; 21oz
      1 cn Kidney Beans; Drained
      1 cn Great Northern Beans; 15-1/2
           -oz, Drained
      1 sm Onion; Chopped
      1 lb Smoked Sausage; Cut 1" Piece
    3/4 c  Ketchup
      2 tb Packed Brown Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry Mustard
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Heat oven to 400~. Rinse frozen lima beans with cold water to
  separate. Mix lima, baked, kidney and northern beans, onion and
  sausage in ungreased 2-1/2-quart casserole.  Mix remaining
  ingredients; stir into bean mixture. Cover and bake 40 to 50 minutes
  or until hot and bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey/chicken Tetrazzini
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Italian, Chicken, Turkey
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Chicken breast halves;cooked
           Or--
      3 c  Turkey, cooked and cubed
    1/2 lb Sliced mushrooms
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Margarine
      1 tb Tapioca flour
      5 tb Flour (wondra)
    2/3 c  1% milk
      1 cn Chicken broth (14.5 oz)
      2 tb Sherry
    1/2    Med. Onion, diced
    1/2 c  Celery, minced
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
    1/2 ts Dried parsley
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
           Salt, cayenne, to taste
      8 oz Vermicelli pasta--
           Broken and cooked
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
 
  Note:  1 more Tb flour can be substitute for tapioka flour but the
  sauce
         won't be as rich (note the 1% milk instead of half and half)
  
  Chop chicken (or turkey) and set aside. Saute mushrooms, onions,
  celery in 2 tbs olive oil. In a separate 9 or 10" fry pan, melt
  margarine and add flour and tapioka flour. Add broth and milk slowly,
  stirring constantly to keep smooth. When thickened add sherry and
  other seasonings. Mix together the chicken, sauce, mushrooms,
  vermicelli and parmesan cheese. Place in casserole and sprinkle
  lightly with parmesan cheese. Place under broiler until bubbly and
  slightly golden on top. DO NOT OVER BROWN: Sauce will become bitter!
  
   11/29 7:41 pm-- Ron in Seattle
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breakfast Casserole (Pensylvannia Dutch "Cowboy")
 Categories: Breakfast, Casserole, Beef
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Large eggs
      1 ts Salt
      2    Slices white bread, cubed
      1 c  Sharp/mild cheddar shreds *
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 lb Sausage browned
 
  *     Use either sharp or mild Shredded Chedder Cheese.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~--- Beat eggs, add milk, salt and mustard, mixing well.  Grease
  bottom of 9 x 13 baking dish.  Place in layer of bread cubes, the
  sausage, then cheese. Pour egg mixture over the top.  Refrigerate
  overnight. Bake at 350 degrees F. for 45 minutes.  Let stand about 5
  minutes before cutting. NOTE: For 8 people use 3 slices of bread and
  8 eggs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bacon and Egg Casserole
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Casserole, Breakfast
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/4 c  Margarine, melted
      2 c  Onion/garlic croutons
      2 c  Milk
      1 tb Prepared mustard
      2 c  Unseasoned croutons
      2 c  Cheddar cheese, grated
      6    Eggs
     10    Slices bacon
 
  Cook bacon cripsly and crumble Coat a 9x12x2 cassrole dish with
  vegetable spray.  Place croutons in casserole and pour margarine over
  them. Sprinkle grated cheese over all. Mix milk, eggs and mustard and
  pour over cheese. Sprinkle bacon crumbs over all. Bake at 325 degrees
  F for 45 minutes. Allow casserole to stand for 15 minutes. From the
  package of Bryan Bacon Posted by:  Grandma Sheila (Exner) July 1991
      Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple-Barbecued Lamb Spare Ribs
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Lamb spare ribs
      1 cn Pineapple,crushed(8oz)
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      1    Garlic clive,finely chopped
    1/4 c  Honey
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Ginger
 
  1. Place spare ribs on a rack in a shallow roasting pan; bake in
  preheated 325'F. oven 1 1/2 hours.
  
  2. Drain off drippings.
  
  3. Combine remaining ingredients, mixing well; pour over lamb.
  
  4. Bake 45 minutes, basing lamb with pineapple mixture frequently
  during baking period.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tangy Short Rib Barbecue
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Beef short ribs
      2 tb Oil
      1 c  Onions,chopped
  1 1/4 c  Catsup
    3/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Brown sugar
      2 ts Salt
 
  1. Cut ribs into individual portions, about 2 1/2 inches wide; trim
  excess fat.
  
  2. Place ribs on a rack in a foil-lined roasting pan; bake in
  preheated 450'F. oven until browned, about 20 minutes.
  
  3. Reduce oven temperature to 350'F.
  
  4. Remove beef and rack from the pan; pour off fat.
  
  5. Return beef to the pan without the rack.
  
  6. Heat oil in a saucepan; add onions and saute 2 minutes.
  
  7. Stir in remaining ingredients; bring to a boil.
  
  8. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 2 minutes; pour over beef to
  coat.
  
  9. Cover and bake in 350'F. oven until beef is fork-tender, about 2
  hours, spooning sauce over beef once.
  
  10. Skim excess fat from sauce in pan.
  
  11. Arrange beef on a platter; serve with pan sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven-Barbecued Turkey Legs
 Categories: Casserole, Poultry, Turkey
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6    Turkey legs,small
    1/4 c  Corn oil
    1/2 c  Barbecue sauce
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Chicken bouillon cube,crush
 
  1. Mix flour with salt, chili powder and pepper; dredge turkey legs
  with flour mixture.
  
  2. Heat oil in a large skillet; brown turkey, turning to brown all
  sides.
  
  3. Remove turkey to a 13x9x2-inch pan.
  
  4. Combine barbecue sauce, water and bouillon cube; spoon over turkey.
  
  5. Cover pan with foil; bake in preheated 325'F. oven 1 hour.
  
  6. Uncover and bake 1 hour, until turkey is tender, basting
  frequently.
  
  NOTE: Delicious teamed with pan-baked potato halves, fresh zucchini
  and a hot peach or pear half!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb Pork Chop Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Pork loin chops, 3/4 inch
           -thick
      1 tb Cooking oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
      3 c  Soft bread crumbs
      3 c  Sliced fresh or frozen
           -rhubarb, 1 inch pieces
    1/2 c  Packed brown sugar
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  In a large skillet, brown pork chops in oil and season with salt and
  pepper.  Remove to a warm platter.  Mix 1/4 cup pan drippings with
  bread crumbs.  Reserve 1/2 cup; sprinkle remaining crumbs into a 13"
  x 9" x 2" baking dish.  Combine rhubarb, sugar, flour and cinnamon;
  spoon half over the bread crumbs.  Arrange pork chops on top. Spoon
  remaining rhubarb mixture over chops. Cover with foil and bake at 350
  degrees for 30-45 minutes. Remove foil. Sprinkle with reserved bread
  crumbs. Bake 10-15 minutes longer or until chops test done. Yield: 4
  servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Jeanie Castor, Decatur, IL, Country Woman Magazine Mar/Apr 93
  POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 5/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy Noodle Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Side dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Skim milk
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Minced fresh parsley
      1 ds Of worcestershire sauce
      2 c  Tender cooked medium egg
           Noodles drained
     16 oz Low fat cottage cheese
    1/2 c  Plain low fat yogurt
      1 cn (4-oz) drained mushroom
           Pieces
      1    Minced onion
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 pn Cayenne pepper
      1 pn Dry mustard
      5 tb Grated sharp
           American cheese optional
      2 tb Seasoned bread crumb
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Blend milk and cornstarch in saucepan; cook mixture over low heat,
  stirring constantly, until it simmers and thickens. Stir in parsley,
  worcestershire, cayenne and mustard. In nonstick baking dish, combine
  milk mixture with noodles, cottage cheese, yogurt, mushrooms, onion,
  salt and pepper. Sprinkle top with grated cheese and bread crumbs.
  Bake uncovered, in preheated 350 degree oven for 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Orzo Casserole
 Categories: Side dish, Casserole
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Orzo
      2 tb Butter
      1    Fine chopped clove garlic
    1/2 pk Dry onion soup mix
      2 c  Water or leftover veal
           Stock
      6 oz Shiitake/white mushrooms
           Sliced
    1/4 c  Parsley chopped
 
  Brown the orzo and garlic in butter in a heavy casserole over medium
  heat, stirring constantly, 2 to 2 1/2 minutes until golden brown.
  Sprinkle on the onion soup mix and mix in. Add water or stock and
  stir well. Cover and simmer for 10 minutes. Add sliced mushrooms; do
  not stir. Cover and simmer for another 10 minutes. Sprinkle on and
  stir in parsley. Cover and let stand for 5-10 minutes until all
  liquid is absorbed into the pasta.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Hot Pot
 Categories: Casserole
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes peeled and sliced
           -thin
      2 md Onions sliced thin
      3    Carrots scraped and sliced
           -thin
    1/4 c  Cooked rice not instant
      1 cn (14.5-oz) peas with liquid
      1 pk (20-oz) sausage links/
           -ground chuck browned in
           -amounts you like
      1 cn (15-oz) condensed cream of
           -tomato soup diluted with a
           -soup
 
  can of water Salt and white pepper to taste
  
  In a buttered, 4 quart casserole layer the potatoes, onions and
  carrots, season each layer as you go with salt and pepper. Sprinkle
  with rice, then the peas with their liquid and top with the meat.
  Pour the diluted soup over all. Bake, covered, in a 375 degree oven
  for 1 hour. Remove cover, turn sausages and bake an additional hour,
  uncovered.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Nacho Casserole
 Categories: Beef, Casserole, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
     12 oz Chunky salsa (1 jar)
      1 c  Sweet corn
    3/4 c  Mircale Whip(R)
      1 tb Chili powder
      2 c  Tortilla chips (crushed)
      2 c  Colby/Monterey Jack cheese
 
  1>. Heat oven to 350F. Brown meat; drain. Stir in salsa, corn,
  Miracle Whip(R) and chili powder. 2>. Layer 1/2 meat mixture, chips
  and cheese in 2-quart casserole. Repeat layers. 3>. Bake 20 minutes
  or until thoroughly heated. Top with shredded lettuce and chopped
  tomato, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Spanish Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Casserole, Breakfast
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Corn tortillas, cut into
           -1-inch squares
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 md Onions, quartered and thinly
           -sliced
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 md Green pepper, diced
      2 md Tomatoes, diced
      6    Eggs, beaten
      3 tb Low-fat milk
      1 oz Can mild green chiles,
           -chopped
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
      2    To 3 tb minced fresh
           -cilantro or parsley
 
  Servings:  6
  
  salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
  
  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Heat a large skillet. Toast the cut
  tortillas on the dry skillet over moderate heat, stirring
  occasionally, until they are crisp. Transfer to a plate to cool. Heat
  the oil in the same skillet. Add the onions and saute over moderate
  heat until transplucent. Add the garlic and pepper and saute until
  the onion turns golden and the peppers soften. Add the tomatoes and
  saute for another 2 to 3 minutes, just until they soften a bit.
  Combine the beaten eggs with the milk in a mixing bowl. Stir in the
  mixture from the skillet, the tortilla bits, and all the remaining
  ingredients. Oil two 9-inch pie tins and divide the mixture among
  them. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until set and golden on top. Let
  stand for 10 minutes before serving, then cut into wedges to serve.
  Source: Vegetarian Celebrations by Nava Atlas
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Casserole #2
 Categories: Casserole, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Onions, sliced
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1 cn Sliced mushrooms, drained (2
           -1/2 oz.)
      1 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 c  Plain croutons
    1/2 c  Shredded carraway seed
           -cheese
    1/2 c  Shredded mild cheddar cheese
      3 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 cn Cream of chickem soup (10
           -3/4 oz.)
 
  Place onion and butter in a 3 quart casserole dish. Cook 7-10 minutes
  until tender. Stir halfway through cooking time. Blend in cream of
  chicken soup, paprika and mushrooms; cook two minutes more. Toss
  croutons with butter. Spoon over onion mixture. Sprinkle with
  cheeses, sprinkle with paprika as desired. Cook one to two minutes or
  until cheese is melted.
  
  SOURCE:* The Orignal Vidalia Onion Cookbook, compiled by Pam McIntyre,
  Published by: The Vidalia, Georgia Chamber of Commerce. POSTED BY: Jim
  Bodle 5/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vidalia Sweet Onion Chicken Breast Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Large chicken breast, split
           -and boned
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Medium-sized potatoes,
           -peeled and sliced
      2    Medium-sized Vidalia sweet
           -onions, peeled and
           Sliced
      1 cn (10 3/4-oz) cream of
           -mushroom soup, undiluted
           Paprika
 
  Brown breast in oil and drain on paper towel. Oil a 1 1/2-quart
  casserole. Layer potatoes on bottom; follow with a layer of onions
  and top with a layer of mushroom soup. Gently, place chicken breast
  over soup and sprinkle with paprika. Cover tightly and bake at 350
  degrees for 1 hour.
  
  Yield: 2 servings
  
  Source: The Berkshire Eagle  April 22, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peg's Pimiento Pigs
 Categories: Casserole, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Pork sausage links(12oz)
      1 cn Pimientos(7oz)
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Nutmeg,ground
           American cheese,shredded
           Parsley sprigs(opt)
 
  1. Brown sausage links in a skillet.
  
  2. Wrap each browned link in a strip of pimiento; arrange in a
  buttered shallow baking dish in a single layer.
  
  3. Melt butter in a saucepan; stir in flour to blend.
  
  4. Add milk, stirring constantly; cook until slightly thickened and
  smooth.
  
  5. Add salt, nutmeg and cheese.
  
  6. Pour sauce over sausage; bake in preheated 350'F. oven 15 minutes.
  
  7. Garnish with sprigs of parsley if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Potato Salad
 Categories: Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Potatoes,Idaho,medium-size
           Water
  1 1/3 ts Salt
      2 tb Salad oil
    1/2 c  Onion,chopped
      1 ts Mustard,prepard
    1/4 ts Celery seed
      2 tb Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Green pepper,diced
    1/4 c  Carrot,shredded
 
  1. Put potatoes in a large saucepan with 1 inch cold water and 1
  teaspoon salt; bring to a boil.
  
  2. Cover, reduce heat and simmer 25 minutes, until potatoes are
  tender; drain and cool.
  
  3. Peel potatoes and slice 1/4-inch thick; set aside.
  
  4. Heat oil in a medium-size skillet; saute onion until soft.
  
  5. Stir in flour, mustard, celery seed and remaining 1/3 teaspoon
  salt.
  
  6. Gradually add 1/2 cup water and vinegar; cook over low heat,
  stirring constantly, until mixture boils and thickens.
  
  7. Combine potatoes, green pepper and carrots in a bowl; add sauce,
  mixing well.
  
  8. Spoon half the mixture into a shallow 8x8-inch baking dish;
  sprinkle with 1/2 cup cheese.
  
  9. Cover with remaining potato mixture and cheese.
  
  10. Bake, uncovered, in preheated 350'F. oven 15 to 20 minutes, or
  until cheese is melted and vegetables are hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Schinkenfleckerln  (Ham and Noodle Casserole)
 Categories: Casserole, Main dish, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 c  Skim milk
      1    Egg, separated
      1 tb Margarine, melted, divided
    1/8 ts Pepper
      5 oz Boiled ham, cut into
           -1/2-inch cubes
      1 c  Cooked noodles (medium
           -width)
      1 ds Salt
 
  Preheat oven to 375F.  In small mixing bowl combine milk, egg yolk, 2
  1/2 teaspoons margarine, and the pepper, mixing thoroughly; add ham
  and noodles and stir well to thoroughly combine.  In separate bowl
  beat egg white with salt until stiff but not dry; gently fold into
  noodle mixture.
  
  Grease 2-cup casserole with remaining margarine and spoon noodle
  mixture into casserole.  Bake until browned on top, 45 to 50 minutes.
  
  Makes 2 servings.
  
  [WEIGHT WATCHERS NEW INTERNATIONAL COOKBOOK] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Best Broccoli Casserole
 Categories: Vegetable, Casserole, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Instant rice
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Chopped celery
      1 cn (10 3/4 oz.) cream of
           -mushroom soup
      1 cn (10 3/4 oz.) cream of celery
           -soup
     10 oz Pkg. frozen chopped
           -broccoli, thawed
    1/2 c  Diced process American
           -cheese
 
  Bring water and salt to a boil.  Add rice; cover and remove from
  heat. Let sit for 5 minutes.  Melt butter in skillet; saute' onion
  and celery until tender.  In large mixing bowl, combine rice, celery,
  and onion with remaining ingredients. Pour into a greased 1 1/2 qt.
  casserole. Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour.
  
  Serves:  6 From: "Taste of Home" Magazine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Rice Dinner
 Categories: Poultry, Rice, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb To 3 lb broiler/fryer
           -chicken, cut up
    1/4 c  (to 1/3 cup) flour
      2 tb Oil
  1 1/2 c  Long grain rice
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 c  Milk
  2 1/3 c  Water
 
  Chopped fresh parsley
  
  Dredge chicken pieces in flour.  In a skillet, heat oil on medium and
  brown chicken on all sides.  Meanwhile, combine rice, poultry
  seasoning, salt, pepper, milk and water. Pour into a greased 13x9x2"
  baking pan. Top with chicken. Cover tightly with foil and bake at 350
  degrees for 55 minutes or until rice and chicken are tender.
  Sprinkle with parsley before serving.
  
  Serves:  4 From: "Taste of Home Magazine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Dressing Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Casserole, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Chickens - cooked and diced
      1    6 oz pkg Stove Top herb
           -flavor
      1 cn Crm of mushroom soup
    1/4 c  Margarine (melted)
      2    Eggs - beaten
      2 c  Chicken broth
    1/3 c  Celery
    1/3 c  Onion
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  Combine all ingredients - mix well. Put in greased 13x9 dish or pan.
  Bake 45 min at 350. Let stand 15 min. 8-10 servings.
  
  "That's the official recipe but here's what I do. Since I'm so lazy I
  just buy the boneless skinned chicken breasts and poach them in the
  microwave. I don't use margarine, I use butter. It calls for 2 cups
  of broth but I just use one 14 1/2 oz can - works fine. And I don't
  put mine in a 13x9 pan - do you have any corning ware stuff? It fits
  real nice in their oval casserole ~ 2 quart I think." (Notes above by
  Chris)
  
  From:  Christiane Stakely (SBHR84A) - Prodigy
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Stuffing Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Casserole, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Pepper
  3 1/2 lb Broiler-fryer chicken, cut
           -up
      1 cn Condensed cream of chicken
           -or
           Cream of mushroom soup
      6 c  Soft bread cubes (about 10
           -slices)
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
      1 c  Milk
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Rubbed sage
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Lg. stalk celery, chopped
           -(about 3/4 cup)
      1    Med. onion, chopped (about
           -1/2 cup)
 
  Heat oil over medium heat in 10" skillet.  Mix flour, paprika and 1/4
  tsp. pepper.  Coat chicken with flour mixture. Cook chicken in oil
  over medium heat 15 to 20 minutes or until brown.
  
  Heat oven to 350 degrees.  Place chicken in ungreased 2 1/2 quart
  casserole or square baking dish, 9x9x2".  Pour soup over chicken.
  Toss remaining ingredients.  Mound mixture on chicken. Cover and bake
  1 hour to 1 hour 15 minutes or until chicken is done.
  
  Serves:  6 From: Betty Crocker Recipe Booklet
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Cheese/eggs, Vegetable
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Broccoli florets
  1 1/2 c  Sliced carrots
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 c  Shredded cheddar cheese (4
           -oz.)
      3    To 4 Drops Hot pepper sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Cooking sherry OR (optional)
    1/4 c  Dry white wine (optional)
  1 1/2 c  Sliced zucchini
      1 c  Sliced celery
    1/2 c  Diced green pepper
    1/2 c  Diced onion
      1 tb Minced fresh parsley
      1 tb Minced fresh basil
      3 tb Butter or margarine
     12    Saltines, crushed
    1/3 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Steam broccoli and carrots until crisp-tender; drain and set aside.
  In a large bowl, mix together mayonnaise, cheddar cheese, hot pepper
  sauce, pepper, and sherry if desired. Add broccoli, carrots,
  remaining vegetables, parsley and basil; stir gently to mix. Spoon
  into a greased 2 quart baking dish. Melt butter in a small saucepan.
  Add crushed saltines; stir until browned. Remove from heat and stir
  in Parmesan cheese; sprinkle over vegetables. Bake, uncovered, at 350
  degrees for 30-40 munutes. Yield: 6-8 servings.
  
  SOURCE:*Audrey Thibodeau, Lancaster, NH, Country Magazine June/July 93
  POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 6/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Braised Lamb & Potatoes
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole, Lamb, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 tb Olive oil
      1 kg Lamb, lean boneless from the
           - shoulder cut into 4cm pcs
      2    Brown onions
    1/2 bn Italian parsley, leaves only
           -chopped
      3    Garlic cloves crushed
      1    Capsicum red, cut into strip
    250 ml Lamb or beef stock
    500 g  Potatoes, peeled & cut into
           - 4cm pieces
     60 g  Pecorino, grated
 
  The potatoes should be yellow, waxy ones, such as Petrones or
  Desirees.
  
  Heat half the oil in a large heavy pot.  Brown lamb well in batches
  and, using a slotted spoon, remove to a plate.   Add remaining oil.
   Add onion and cook until softened.   Add parsley, garlic and
  capsicum.   Return lamb to pot, stir and add stock and freshly ground
  pepper to taste.   (Don't add salt yet as pecorino is a salty cheese)
    Reduce heat, cover, and simmer for 30 minutes.
  
  Add potato and simmer for another 20 minutes, or until lamb is almost
  tender.   Stir in cheese and cook for 10 minutes. Season with freshly
  ground pepper and salt to taste.
  
  Best if cooked 1 - 2 days ahead and refrigerated.   Like all
  casseroles, it will improve in flavour during the resting period.
   Great for entertaining, because it can be cooked well in advance,
  leaving you free to get on with the many chores involved in throwing
  a party.
  
  (Source:   Australian Gourmet Traveller magazine) (Posted by Mike
  Kear)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Cheese, Hazelnut and Herb Terrine
 Categories: Vegetarian, Vegetable, Cheese/eggs, Casserole
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           Radicchio leaves
 58 1/3 g  Creamy blue cheese
 91 2/3 g  Greek strained yogurt
    1/3 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Gelozone
 16 2/3 g  Toasted ground hazelnuts
    2/3    Hard boiled eggs
      2 tb Fresh mixed herbs

MMMMM-------------------SUGGESTIONS FOR HERBS------------------------
           Parsley
           Coriander
           Chives
   3/16 ts Paprika
           Seasoning
 
  1 Trim the stalks from the radicchio and use the leaves to line a 110g
    (for two servings) loaf tin.
  
  2 Mash the blue cheese with the yogurt and mayonnaise and warm gently.
    In a separate pan, whisk the Gelozone into two tablespoons of water
    and bring almost to the boil.
  
  3 Fold into the cheese mixture. Add the nuts, eggs, herbs, paprika and
    seasoning. Mix well and transfer to the loaf tin.
  
  4 Fold over the radicchio leaves and chill until set. Carefully turn
    out of the tin, slice and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clam and Potato Casserole
 Categories: Casserole, Potato, Clam/oyster
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Ingredients:
      1    Qt. clams, shucked
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 ds Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Clam liquid & milk mixed
      1 lg Onion chopped
           Paprika
      1    Stick butter or margarine
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 tb Curry powder
      6    Potatoes, boiled, sliced
      4 tb Parmesan cheese, grated
 
  Directions: Drain juice from clams and save liquid. Chop clams. Melt
  butter. Blend in flour and seasonings. Mix clam juice with milk to
  make 1 1/2 cups. Add to flour blend slowly while cooking over low
  heat. Stir constantly until mixture is thick and smooth. Add clams.
  Place half of potatoes in greased casserole, sprinkle half the onions
  over potoatoes and cover with half the sauce. Repeat. Sprinkle with
  cheese and paprika. Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lovage, Potato & Buttermilk Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 oz Finely chopped onion
     10 oz Corsely grated raw potato
           Fresh young lovage leaves
  1 1/4 pt Chicken or vegetable stock
    1/2 pt Buttermilk, more if desired
 
  Put the onion into a heavy-based saucepan.  Add the stock and bring to
  boiling point very slowly so the onion begins to soften a little.
  
  Meanwhile coarsely chop a small handful (5 or so tablespoons) of
  lovage. Add the potato and herbs to the pan and pour on 1/2 pint
  buttermilk. Increase the heat very slightly and bring the mixture to
  a bare simmer. Stir vigorously all the while as the potato starch
  will thicken the soup, which may stick to the pan base.  Half-cover
  the pan and reduce heat as low as possible once again.  Cook very
  gently indeed, stirring occasionally, until the potatoes are
  perfectly tender.
  
  Whizz the contents of the pan to a smooth puree.  Season with salt and
  pepper and with extra lovage if you like.  Whizz again and thin to
  taste with a little more stock or buttermilk.  Reheat gently or chill
  thoroughly before serving, then garnish with a swirl of buttermilk
  and a small flotilla of chopped fresh lovage.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Pork & Basil
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Fusilli or other fresh pasta
      6 oz Mushrooms
           Fresh basil, parsley, chives

MMMMM---------------------FOR THE MEATBALLS--------------------------
      1 lb Lean freshly minced pork
           Parmesan cheese
           Fresh basil
           Garlic
    1/2 sm Egg; lightly beaten
           A little butter or oil

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 oz Butter
  1 1/2 tb Plain flour
    1/4 pt Double cream
    1/2 pt (scant) stock
           Parmesan cheese
           Dijon mustard
 
  Mix all the meatball ingredients thoroughly; I season the meat with 1
  tablespoon grated Parmesan, 2 tablespoons basil and 1 smallish garlic
  clove, as well as salt and pepper.  Flour your hands and shape the
  mixture into about 32 small balls.  Fry in batches in a non-stick pan
  for 5 minutes or more until golden and cooked right through.  Shake
  the pan frequently so the meatballs keep in good shape and cook
  evenly.  Transfer to a casserole and keep hot.
  
      Slice the mushrooms thickly, saute' them well and add them to the
  meatballs.  Then "wash out" the frying pan with the chicken stock.
  Make a smooth rich sauce with the butter, flour, stock and cream.
  Add any juices that have collected in the casserole and simmer for
  several minutes. Away from the heat, season with salt and pepper, 2
  tablespoons Parmesan and 1 heaped teaspoon Dijon mustard.  Pour the
  sauce over the meatballs, cover and keep hot in a low oven.  The
  mixture can be kept hot for some time without spoiling, or it can be
  prepared ahead and reheated close to serving.
  
      Boil the pasta until al dente and drain well.  Add it to the
  casserole together with a small handful of fresh herbs -- about 2
  tablespoons each basil and chives, and 1 of parsley -- and toss
  gently to mix well. Garnish with more basil, and serve with an
  undressed salad.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts with Green Coriander (Cilantro)
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, British, Chicken
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Boneless chicken breasts
      1 bn Baby carrots
      1 bn Coriander (cilantro)
      2 tb Best quality olive oil
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  Skin the chicken breasts and dust them with a little salt and pepper.
  Lay each one on a square of baking parchment, flatten it lightly with
  the palm of your hand and lay a sprig of coriander on top.  Fold the
  sides of the paper over the meat, excluding as much air as possible,
  and roll up to make a neat flat parcel.  Then overwrap carefully with
  foil to make a waterproof package.  Trim and scrub the carrots.
  Measure the olive oil into a small saucepan and add a seasoning of
  salt and pepper.  Coarsely chop a tablespoon or two of coriander
  leaves (a little less for beginners, a little more for addicts) and
  reserve separately.  All these preparations can be done well ahead.
  
      About 20 minutes before you plan to serve the dish, start cooking.
  Steam the baby carrots.  Drop the chicken parcels, seam side up, into
  a large pan of boiling water and cook for 13 to 18 minutes depending
  on the size of the breasts.  Barely a bubble should disturb the
  surface of the liquid while the chicken cooks.  Transfer the parcels,
  still wrapped up, to a low oven for 5 minutes to let the meat set.
  
      Blot the carrots dry and arrange them on a warmed serving dish.
  Warm the olive oil.  Unwrap the chicken and add just 1 to 2
  tablespoons of the juices to the pan of warming olive oil.  Quickly
  carve the breasts into thin slices and arrange the meat beside the
  carrots.  Add the lemon juice to the hot olive oil and immediately
  pour the sizzling mixture over the chicken and carrots.  Scatter with
  chopped coriander and serve straightway with hot crusty bread to mop
  up the juices.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Potatoes with Salami & Sorrel
 Categories: Salad, Main dish, British
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Small new potatoes
      1 sm Handful of sorrel
      2 oz Italian salami (or more)
           -- thinly sliced
      1 sm Onion
           Coriander seed
           Wholegrain mustard
           Olive oil
           White wine vinegar
 
  Chop the onion roughly and partially soften it in 2 generous
  tablespoons of the oil.  Do not let it brown.  Scrub the potatoes
  (but on no account peel them) and steam them.  Wash and dry the
  sorrel, discarding tough stalks. Roll up the leaves tighly in your
  fingers, just a few at a time, as though making a cigarette, and snip
  across into fine ribbons.
  
      Tip the softened onion and its juices into a big bowl.  Stir in
  1/2 teaspoon each vinegar and mustard, some salt and lots of pepper
  and coriander seed.  The coriander seed should be freshly toasted and
  ground coarsely using a pestle and mortar or a spare peppermil.  Add
  the potatoes to the bowl while still piping hot, so they drink up the
  flavours of the dressing.  Cut each potato in half or into quarters
  depending on size, and toss gently.  Scatter some of the sorrel over
  the base of a shallow serving dish.  Pile the potatoes into the
  centre, encircle them with the sliced salami and scatter the
  remaining ribbons of sorrel over the top. Serve while potatoes are
  still warm.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Steaks in Herb Blankets
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Salmon steaks, 3/4" thick
      4 oz Butter
      1    Lemon
           Fresh parsley, chives, mint,
           Lemon thyme and tarragon
           -- (or herbs of your choice)
 
  Choose a gratin or baking dish which will take the steaks side by
  side and use some of the butter to grease it thickly.  Put the fish
  into it and season with a squeeze of lemon, a generous grinding of
  black pepper and a little salt.  Cover and set aside in a cool place
  until ready to cook.
  
      To cook, simply dot the fish with the remaining butter, cover
  with foil and bake at 375-400 F (190-200 C) gas mark 5-6 for 20 to 25
  minutes until the fish is hot and tender.  While it cooks, chop
  coarsely and mix together heady handfuls of aromatic herbs.  I would
  probably use something like 8 tablespoons parsley, 6 of chives, 4 of
  mint and no more than 2 teaspoons each of lemon thyme and tarragon.
  You may prefer to use a little dill or fennel in place of tarragon,
  or to concoct some quite different cocktail of your own.
  
      Scatter nearly half the herbs on a warm serving dish and lay the
  fish steaks on a bed of herbs.  Scatter more herbs over the fish,
  spoon on the buttery cooking juices then the remaining herbs.  Serve
  with wedges of lemon and steamed new potatoes.  (Other vegetables are
  best served as a separate course.)
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbolace Pie
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Cheese/eggs, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Shortcrust pastry
           -- (see note)
      6 oz Curd cheese
      4 oz Cottage cheese
      2 oz (generous) mature cheddar
      4    Eggs
      2 tb Milk (or more)
           Fresh mint, parsley & chives
           Beaten egg to glaze
 
  *Note: Shortcrust pastry should be made with 8 oz flour, preferably
  whole wheat.
  
  Sieve both the soft cheeses to make a smooth mixture.  Beat in about 2
  tablespoons each coarsley chopped parsley, mint and chives to make a
  prettily green-flecked mixture.  Add salt, pepper and the milk.
  
     Use half the pastry to line a pie plate measuring about 8 1/2
  inches across the top.  Put the cheese mixture into it, make four
  hollows with the back of a spoon and break an egg into each.  Season
  the eggs with a pinch of salt, a good grinding of pepper and scatter
  more herbs over the top--at least 3 tablespoons of mint and perhaps 1
  of chives.
  
      Cover with remaining pastry.  Seal, flute, glaze and make a few
  steam slits in the usual way.  Bake on a preheated baking sheet at
  425 F (220 C) gas mark 7 for 25 minutes, then at 375 F (190 C) gas
  mark 6 for 15 minutes. Cool for 5-10 minutes before serving with a
  tomato salad or a green salad.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beekeeper's Cabbage
 Categories: Vegetable, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Red cabbage (1-1/2 to 2 lbs)
      1    Onion
      1    Parsnip
      1 lg Apple
      1 tb Honey
    1/2 oz Butter
      2 tb Fruit vinegar (or more)
           -- preferably raspberry
           Caraway seeds
    1/4 pt Yoghurt or sour cream, opt.
 
  Cut cabbage into quarters.  Remove and discard the tough central
  stalk. Shred the cabbage and put it into a large mixing bowl.  Peel
  and finely chop the onion and add it to the cabbage.  Cut the parsnip
  and apple into small pieces, peeling them first if you wish, and add
  them to the bowl. Drizzle on the honey.  Add a good seasoning of salt
  and pepper and scant 1/2 teaspoon caraway seeds.  Sprinkle on the
  vinegar , use 3 tablespoons if the apple you are using is the dessert
  variety, just 2 tablespoons if it is a cooking apple.  Mix everything
  together well using your hands -- a little messy, but spoons are not
  as effective -- then pile the mixture into a buttered casserole.  Lay
  a sheet of thickly buttered greaseproof paper directly on top of the
  vegetables and cover the casserole with a well fitting lid to prevent
  drying out.
  
      Cook at 300 F (150 C) gas mark 2 for about 2-1/2 hours until the
  vegetables are beautifully tender, if possible stir the mixture once
  or twice as it cooks.  Remove the greaseproof paper and check
  seasoning immediately before serving.  Serve the vegetable mixture
  just as it is, or top at the last minute with 1/4 pint cold creamy
  yoghurt or soured cream into which you have stirred a few bruised and
  lightly crushed caraway seeds.  Or hand round the bowl of flavoured
  cream separately, so that those who want it can help themselves.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elizabethan Orange Tart
 Categories: Dessert, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    10" shortcrust pastry case
           -- thoroughly blind-bakec
      2    Thin-skinned oranges
           Honey and sugar
           Stick cinnamon
           Ground cinnamon
           Allspice
    1/4 pt Double cream
    1/4 lb Fromage blanc (or see note)
           -OR- Low-fat soft cheese
      2 tb Ground almonds
 
  Measure 2 tablespoons sugar into a bowl and stir in 4 tablespoons
  boiling water. Add a cinnamon stick and 1/4 pint cold water. Scrub
  the oranges, flute the peel lightly with a citrus zester and slice
  the fruit thinly, discarding the ends. Remove pips (seeds), put the
  orange slices into the sweetened water and leave to soak overnight.
  Next day, turn the oranges and their liquid into a saucepan. Cover
  and cook very gently for about 30 minutes. Carefully turn the slices
  once they cook. Lift the cooked orange slices from the pan one at a
  time, shaking to let the syrup drip back into the pan, and put them
  on a rack to drain and become cold. Remove the cinnamon stick, then
  boil the syrup until reduced to a few sticky spoonfuls. Cool slightly
  then stir in the 1 tablespoon honey. Assemble the tart just before
  serving. First sprinkle the ground almonds over the base of the cold
  pastry shell. Sweeten and flavour the soft cheese by stirring into it
  1 teaspoon or so of honey and a little each of ground cinnamon and
  allspice. Whip the cream, fold in the sweetened and flavoured cheese,
  then spoon this mixture into the pastry shell. Arrange the orange
  slices on top, overlapping them slightly in decorative circles, and
  glaze with the gently re-warmed syrup.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golden Wardens
 Categories: Fruit, Dessert, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Pears
      1    Lemon
           Honey
      8 fl White grape juice
 
  Warden is the old name for the small hard cooking pear that used to
  grow in many country gardens.  The best way to cook them was slowly
  with honey and fruit juice to warm and round out their thin colour
  and flavour, but this recipe works well for dessert pears too.
  
  Choose a casserole or baking dish with just enough room to lay pears
  head to tail in  single layer.  Peel the pears thinly, leaving the
  stalks on, then immediately roll each one in a saucer containing the
  juice of the lemon.  Put the pears into the dish.  Spoon on scant 4
  tablespoons honey and add any lemon juice remaining in the saucer.
  Bring the grape juice to simmering point and pour it over the pears.
  Cover the dish and bake at 325-350 F (160-180 C) gas mark 3-4 until
  the fruit is beautifully tender. How long this will take varies
  enormously - 1 hour is enough for semi-ripe dessert pears; 3 hours or
  more may be needed for pears so hard that they seem to be carved from
  wood.  Baste the pears frequently as they bake and turn them
  occasionally to encourage even cooking.
  
      When the pears are ready, transfer them to a serving dish,
  standing them upright.  Boil the cooking liquid until it turns syrupy
  and is reduced by about half.  Stir in an extra tablespoon or two of
  honey if you think a little more sweetness is desirable but avoid the
  temptation to make the juices too sweet; the appeal of the dish lies
  in its fruitiness. Spoon the syrupy glaze over the pears.  Serve warm
  or cold.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrots with Ginger and Orange
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb (scant) maincrop carrots
      3 sm Oranges
           Fresh ginger root
      1 sm Garlic clove
      1 oz Walnut kernals
      1 sm Bunch of mint
      1 ts Honey
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Olive oil
 
  First make the dressing.  Finely grate the zest of 1 orange into a
  bowl. Add its juice, the honey and lemon juice and 1 tablespoon olive
  oil.  Peel 1/2 inch or so of ginger and chop it as finely as
  possible; then crush the small garlic clove.  Add both these
  ingredients to the bowl with a little salt and pepper.  Mix well then
  push 2 sprigs of mint into the liquid.
  
  Scrub and scrape the carrots, or peel them if you insist, then grate
  them coarsely and add to the dressing.  Peel the remaining 2 oranges
  and cut into segments; be ruthless about cutting away all traces of
  pith and the membrane that divides one segment from the next.  Remove
  pips (seeds) with the tip of a knife and add the oranges to the salad
  bowl.  Mix all the ingredients together gently, then cover the salad
  and set it aside for 2 hours or a little longer to allow flavours to
  blend and develop.
  
  Close to serving time, remove and discard the tired sprigs of mint,
  stir in the walnuts and scatter with fresh torn mint leaves.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb Sorbet
 Categories: Dessert, Fruit, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Rhubarb (trimmed weight)
      4 tb Honey
      1    Orange (zest only)
      2    Egg whites
 
  Prepare and cook the rhubarb at least a day ahead of serving the
  sorbet. Wipe and trim the fruit, then slice it quite thinly into a
  flameproof casserole.  Sprinke the finely grated orange zest over it
  and drizzle on 2 tablespoons of the honey.  Cover and leave in a cool
  place for 2 hours or more until the sweetener has drawn out some of
  the rhubarb juices; this liquid will prevent sticking during cooking.
  
      Cook the rhubarb in the covered dish until perfectly tender - I
  think this is best done in a low oven but you can use a very gentle
  flame on top of the stove if you prefer.  Let the cooked rhubarb cool
  slightly, then add the remaining 2 tablespoons honey and whizz to a
  very smooth puree in a food-processor.
  
      When the puree is quite cold, freeze it in a chilled loaf tin, or
  other suitable container, until firm round the edges.  Beat the
  half-frozen sorbet until slushly.  Whisk the egg whites and fold them
  in so the mixture looks like a pale pink snow.  Cover and freeze
  until solid. Beat to break up ice crystals and to increase bulk, then
  freeze the sorbet again until you are ready to serve it.  Shortbread
  fingers make a good crunchy accompaniment.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greenhouse Kebabs
 Categories: Vegetable, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Aubergine (eggplant)
      1 lg Red or yellow pepper
      3    Courgettes (baby zucchinis)
      6 sm Onions
     12 sm Cap mushrooms

MMMMM------------------------FLAVOURINGS-----------------------------
      4 tb Lemon juice
      4 tb Peanut oil
      2 tb Honey
           Coriander seed,coarse ground
           Coarsely ground black pepper

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SAUCE----------------------------
  2 1/2 oz Peeled onion
      2    Garlic cloves
      5 tb Peanut butter
      2 tb Peanut oil
  1 1/2 tb Honey
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Coriander seeds
    3/4 ts Chili powder
      2 ts Anchovy essence
 
  Cut the aubergine and pepper into chunks; cut the onions into wedges;
  slice the courgettes into 1-to 1-1/2-inch lengths; leave the
  mushrooms whole. Mix together all flavouring ingredients.  Toss the
  vegetables in the flavourings and marinate for 2 to 4 hours.
  
     The sauce should be part-prepared well ahead.  Chop the onion and
  garlic roughly, then whizz them in a food-processor or blender with
  the coriander seeds.  Add the chili, oil and anchovy essence and
  whizz again. Add the peanut butter, lemon juice and honey and process
  once more. Scrape the puree into a small saucepan, cover and set
  aside for at least 1 hour before cooking.
  
     Thread the vegetables on to skewers and grill under moderate heat
  for 10-15 minutes, basting with the marinade liquid as necessary.
  Meanwhile, add 5 tablespoons warm water to the pan of sauce and set
  it over medium heat.  Cook at a steady bubble, stirring often, until
  the sauce is hot and aromatic.  Reduce heat to a very low and cook
  for a few minutes longer, adding more water if necessary to achieve a
  good creamy consistency, and adjust seasoning to taste.  Hand round
  the sauce separately.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Skewered Fish with Honey-Mustard Sauce
 Categories: Fish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Firm white fish fillets
           -- (very thick),
           -- preferably halibut,
           -- turbot or monkfish
    1/4 lb Streaky bacon
    1/4 lb Mushrooms
      2 sm Onions (or more)
      8    Cherry tomatoes
      1    Lemon
           Oil

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SAUCE----------------------------
      2 ts Honey
      1    Egg yolk
      1 tb (rounded) French mustard
  1 1/2 tb Tarragon vinegar
    1/4 pt Sunflower or safflower oil
 
      Cut the fish into large cubes, put it into a dish and sprinkle
  with lemon juice, salt and pepper.  Cut the onions into wedges, put
  them into a separate bowl with the mushrooms, add a good grinding of
  pepper, and oil and lemon juice - in the ratio of 2 tablespoons oil
  to 1 tablespoon lemon. Leave to absorb flavours for an hour or more.
  Halve the bacon rashers, de-rind them, stretch and roll them up
  loosely.
  
      The sauce can also be made in advance.  Beat the honey, mustard
  and egg yolk together in a small bowl.  Add the vinegar, a spoonful
  at a time, whisking it in with a balloon whisk or fork.  Then add the
  oil, pouring it from a jug in a thin stream and whisking the contents
  of the bowl all the time as you pour.  Continue whisking for about a
  minute until the sauce is a homogeneous thick cream, then season to
  taste with salt and pepper.
  
      Close to serving time, thread the fish, onions and mushrooms on to
  skewers, adding the bacon rolls and tomatoes here and there.  Grill
  for 10 minutes or so under medium-high heat, turning and basting
  occasionally with the marinade liquid.  Serve immediately with a dish
  of rice and hand round the sauce separately.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lincolnshire Plum Bread
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Strong white bread flour
    1/4 oz Easy-blend yeast
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Ground allspice
      4 tb Sugar
      1 pn Salt
      2    Eggs; lightly beaten
    1/4 lb Butter; melted
      8 tb Milk; warm
    1/2 lb Prunes; cut into
           - sultana-size pieces
      2 oz Currants
      2 oz Sultanas
 
  Using a food-mixer or processor or your hands, mix and knead all the
  ingredients except the dried fruits to a smooth and elastic dough.
  Cover and leave to rise until doubled in size - about 1 hour in a
  warm room.
  
      Knock back the risen dough and knead again briefly, gradually
  working in the dried fruits until evenly distributed.  Divide the
  dough in two, shape and put into two small (1 lb) greased and lined
  loaf tins.  Cover and leave to prove (rise) until puffy and light.
  
      Bake on a preheated baking sheet at 375 F (190 C) gas mark 5 for
  40-50 minutes.  Take the loaves out of the tins and return them to
  the oven for a further 10 minutes or so as necessary - the bread will
  sound hollow when tapped on the base if it is properly cooked.  Makes
  2 small loaves.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scotch Pancakes
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 lb Plain white household flour
      1 ts Bicarbonate of soda
  1 1/2 ts Cream of tartare
      1 oz Caster sugar
      1    Egg
    1/4 pt Milk or cream
 
  Sift the flour with the raising agents and stir in the sugar.  Make a
  well in the centre and break the egg into it.  Whisk the milk into
  the egg, then gradually incorporate the dry ingredients to make a
  very smooth, thick batter.  Alternately, simply mix everything
  together in a food processor. If time permits let the batter stand
  for 30 minutes before cooking.
      Heat a griddle, bakestone or cast-iron frying pan until very hot
  ~ or cook direct on the hot plate of an Aga.  Grease your chosen
  surface lightly with buttered paper, using just enough fat to prevent
  the pancakes from sticking.  Using a large metal spoon held point
  downward, drop a few small rounds of batter on to the hot surface.
  Space them well apart. Cook over steady heat until bubbles rise to
  the surface and the underside of the pancakes are browned - about 2
  minutes.  Loosen them gently with a palette knife, then flip them
  over and cook for about 1 minute longer.
  
  Makes about 16 pancakes.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wiltshire Lardy Cake
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Strong white bread flour
      1 ts Easy-blend yeast
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 oz Melted lard
    1/4 pt Warm water (or milk & water)

MMMMM-------------------------TO FINISH------------------------------
    1/4 lb Pure pork lard; diced
           Lard for greasing the pan
           Cinnamon
           Allspice
           Demerara sugar

MMMMM-----------------MIX TOGETHER THE FOLLOWING----------------------
      1 oz Sultanas; chopped
      1 oz Raisins; chopped
      1 oz Currents; chopped
      1 oz Chopped candied peel
 
  Using a food-mixer or processor or your hands, mix and knead the
  dough. Cover it with oiled polythene and leave to rise until doubled
  in size; this will take about 1 hour in a warm place.
  
  Knock back the dough, knead it again briefly and roll out to an
  oblong. Mix together 1-1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon
  ground allspice and 2 ounces sugar and sprinkle half of this mixture
  over the dough.  Add half the dried fruits and half the diced lard.
  Roll up the dough, like a swiss roll, give it a quarter turn and roll
  it out to an oblong again. Sprinkle with sugar and spices, dried
  fruits and fat exactly as before. Then roll up and roll out the dough
  to an oblong once again, but this time make it the right size to fit
  a shallow baking or roasting tin about 7-inches square. Grease the
  tin and put the dough into it, pressing it well into the corners.
  Cover and leave to prove (rise) until the dough is light, puffy and
  well risen.
  
  Score the top of the dough with a diamond pattern, brush with melted
  lard and sprinkle on 1 ounce of sugar.  Bake at 425 F (220 C) gas
  mark 7 until cooked to a golden brown and smelling delicious, 35-40
  minutes.
  
  Cool the cake briefly in the tin so that the melted fat is
  re-absorbed, then serve it while still warm, cut into large sticky
  fingers.   Makes 1 cake
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Devonshire Splits
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 lb Stong white bread flour
      1 ts Easy-blend yeast
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar
      1 oz Butter; melted
    1/4 pt Milk; warmed

MMMMM-------------------------TO FINISH------------------------------
           Icing sugar
           Clotted cream
           Good jam
 
  Using a food-processor, a food mixer with a dough hook, or your
  hands, mix the dry ingredients, add the warm milk and melted butter
  and mix and knead to a smooth elastic dough.  Cover with lightly
  oiled polythene and leave to rise until doubled in size - about 1
  hour in a warm place.
  
      Knock back and knead again briefly.  Divide the dough into eight
  and shape into small round buns.  Space them well apart on a greased
  baking tray.  Cover and set aside to prove (rise) until light and
  puffy - about 20 minutes.
  
      Bake at 425 F (220 C) gas mark 7 for 15-20 minutes until golden
  brown. Cool, then cut each bun down the middle, from top to bottom
  but not all the way through.  Split open and fill with cream and jam.
  Be generous, allowing plenty of jam and no less than 1 oz clotted
  cream per bun.  Then dust with icing sugar.  Makes 8 buns.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grasmere Gingerbread
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 18 servings
 
      1 lb Fine oatmeal
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      4 ts Ground ginger
      1 pn Allspice
    1/2 lb Pale muscovado sugar
    1/2 lb Butter
      2 tb Golden syrup
 
  Line a swiss roll or baking tin measuring about 9 x 13 inches with
  bakewell or greaseproof paper and grease it well.  Stir the dry
  ingredients together.  Melt the butter and syrup over low heat, pour
  on to the dry ingredients and stir well to make a fairly stiff
  mixture. Spread the mixture evenly over the base of the prepared tin
  and bake at 350 F (180 C) gas mark 4 for 25-30 minutes.  Do not be
  alarmed by the fact that the mixture will look a little runny when it
  emerges from the oven; this is normal.  Mark the biscuits into
  fingers or squares while still warm but leave in the tin until
  completely cold.  Don't make the biscuits very big ~ they are chewy
  and very filling.  Good exercise for the jaws and high in calories.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nier Beurre (Channel Islands Fruit Butter)
 Categories: Fruit, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Dessert apples
      1 lb Cooking apples
           Granulated sugar
      2 pt Dry cider
    1/2    Orange
    1/2    Lemon
           Ground cinnamon & allspice
 
  Fast boil the cider until reduced by half.  Peel, core and slice HALF
  of each sort of apple; add them to the pan, pushing them well down
  into the liquid.  Half-cover the pan and simmer gently until the
  fruit is soft.
  
      Add the remaining apples, prepared in the same way, together with
  the juice and zest of the citrus fruits.  Half-cover the pan and
  continue simmering until all the fruit is well reduced, pulpy and
  tender. Stir occasionally and crush the fruit down into the pan with
  a potato masher as it cooks.  Measure the pulp and process it to a
  puree if it is at all lumpy.  Add sugar at the rate of 10 oz for
  every pint of apple pulp, and stir in about 1 teaspoon ground
  allspice.
  
      Simmer, stirring frequently, until most of the moisture has been
  driven off.  The readiness of a fruit butter is judged by its
  consistency, not by set or temperature.  It is ready when it is
  nearly dry - a spoon drawn across the mixture should leave its own
  impression.  Pot in small, clean, warm jars and store in a very cold
  larder or fridge.  Once jar is opened, the contents should be eaten
  up within 3 or 4 days. Makes enough to fill 4 or 5 small jars.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Teisen Mel (Traditional Welsh Honeycake)
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Plain white household flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 lb Runny honey
      1 tb Runny honey
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/4 lb Caster sugar
      2 lg Eggs
      1 tb Milk (or double this amount)
 
  Sieve the flour, raising agent and spice into a bowl. Lightly grease
  a tin pie plate measuring about 8-1/2-inches across the top.
  
  Cream the butter with 3 oz sugar until creamy and light. Add the egg
  yolks then the 1/4 lb honey, gradually. Gently mix in the flour, then
  the milk. Spread the mixture in the prepared tin, mounding it
  slightly in the centre, and then bake at 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6 for
  about half an hour.
  
  Let the cake rest in its tin for 2 minutes before turning it out on
  to a wire rack. Let it cool for 10 minutes then slide it on to a
  baking tray and brush the top with 1 tablespoon warmed honey - or
  redcurrant jelly if you prefer. Whisk the egg whites and the
  remaining 1 oz sugar to make a glossy meringue mixture. Swirl this
  over the top of the cake and bake at 325 F (160 C) gas mark 3 for
  about 20 minutes. Serve the cake when it is cold. Makes 1 cake.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot, Orange & Almond Jam
 Categories: Fruit, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Dried apricots
      2 oz Split almonds
      3    Oranges
      2    Lemons
  2 1/2 lb Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  Chop the apricots roughly.  Put them into a large bowl, sprinkling
  the fine grated zest of the oranges and the cinnamon between layers.
  Squeeze the juice of the oranges, measure and add enough water to
  make 3 pints in all. Pour the liquids over the fruit and leave to
  soak overnight in a cool place.
  
  Slide the contents of the bowl into a preserving pan and simmer gently
  until the fruit is beautifully tender.  Check the fruit occasionally
  as it cooks and crush it down into the pan with a potato masher.  It
  may need 1-1/4 hours to become really soft.
  
  Warm the sugar.  Add it to the pan together with the juice of the
  lemons and the almonds.  Cook gently until the sugar is melted, then
  fast-boil until the saucer test shows that the preserve will set.
  Pot, tie down and label the preserve in the usual way.  Makes enough
  to fill 5 jars.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Welsh Cakes
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 lb Self-raising flour
      2 oz Butter
      4 oz Sugar
      4 oz Sultanas and raisins
      2    Eggs
    1/3 pt Water
 
  cOn sale in every Welsh bakery, these are one of the great delights of
  teatime.  The are easy to make.  The Welsh use a flat iron "planc" (a
  griddle) to bake the cakes, which are cooked on top heat like Scotch
  pancakes.  A heavy frying pan will do fine if you don't have a
  griddle. Makes 15-18 cakes.
  
  Rub the fat into the flour and add the fruit and sugar.  Mix the
  water with the eggs and use to make a soft dough just a little firmer
  than that for the scones.  Tip on to a well-floured board and roll
  out to a thickness of 1/2-inch.  Cut out circles with a 2-1/2-inch
  shell-edged cutter.
  
  Heat a planc or heavy iron frying pan - get the heat up into it
  gently and thoroughly, and do not let it overheat.  If the pan is not
  well-seasoned or non-stick, slick it with a little butter or
  vegetable oil.
  
  Bake the cakes on the pan, turning them once, until well-risen and
  lightly browned.  They will take about 5 minutes each side.  Eat hot
  or cold, with or without salty butter, but always with a cup of
  piping-hot tea.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Home-Made Ginger Beer
 Categories: Beverage, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 oz Fresh ginger
      2    Lemons
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      1 lb Sugar
      1 ga Boiling water
      1 oz Yeast
 
  This home-brew remains a favourite party drink in a Welsh household
  for both adults and children.  You will need eight pint bottles or
  four quart bottles.  They should be of a strong material and have
  firm caps with metal springs to imprison the effervescent liquid -
  it's more explosive than champagne.  Makes 1 gallon.
  
  Roughly crush the ginger root.  Wash and slice the lemons into thick
  rings. Put the ginger, lemon, cream of tartar and sugar in a large
  bowl. Pour the boiling water over.  Stir and leave to cool to blood
  temperature. Stir in the yeast.  Leave to ferment for 24 hours.  Skim
  off the yeast. Strain and bottle the liquid.  Leave for three days
  before broaching it.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bacon Cawl with Three Sauces
 Categories: Soup/stew, Salsa/sauce, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------THE CAWL-------------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Collar bacon with rind
      3 pt Water

MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes
      1 sm Swede (rutabaga)
      3    Mature carrots
      2 lg Leeks (or spring onions)
      2 tb Chopped parsley

MMMMM--------------------SAUCES FOR THE MEAT-------------------------

MMMMM-------------------MUSTARD AND EGG SAUCE------------------------
      2 oz Butter
      1 oz Flour
      1 ts Dry mustard powder
    1/2 ts Powdered tumeric
    1/2 pt Cawl stock & milk mixed
      1    Hard-boiled egg
      1 tb Vinegar

MMMMM-------------------SPICED TOMATO KETCHUP------------------------
      1 lb Ripe tomatoes
      1 sm Onion
      1 ts Ground ginger
    1/4 ts Powdered cloves
      1 oz Sugar
      1 tb Malt vinegar
           Salt and pepper
      1 sm Green chili (optional)

MMMMM------------------PARSLEY-AND-CHIVE SAUCE-----------------------
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Flour
    1/2 pt Cawl stock and milk mixed
      2 tb (heaped) chopped parsley
      1 tb (heaped) chopped chives
           Salt and pepper
 
  Wash the joint to remove surface blood.  Put the meat into a large
  clean pan and cover well with water.  Bring to the boil, then turn
  the heat down, cover with lid and simmer for 2 hours. Top up if the
  water sinks below the level of the meat - at the end of the cooking
  you should have 2 pints of liquor.  Leave it to cool, meat and all,
  and lift off the white hat of grease (it makes good dripping after
  heating gently to drive off the water).  Some families like the fat
  left in.
  
  Prepare the vegetables - scrub, peel and cut them into bite-sized
  chunks as appropriate.  Wash and slice the leeks into 1/2-inch rings.
  Then make the sauces.
  
  For the MUSTARD AND EGG SAUCE: Melt 1 oz butter in a small pan.  When
  it froths, sprinkle in the flour and fry for a moment until mixture
  is sandy. Stir in the mustard powder and tumeric and immediately
  whisk in the broth and milk.  Whisk till the mixture thickens.  Chop
  the egg and stir in. Finish with the vinegar and beat in the extra
  ounce of butter.  Taste and add salt and pepper.
  
  For the SPICED TOMATO KETCHUP: Chop the tomatoes, skin and chop the
  onion. Put all the ingredients except the optional chili into a
  lidded saucepan. Bring to the boil, turn down the heat, leave to
  simmer gently for 30 minutes.  Push the contents of the pan and boil
  it fiercely for a few minutes.  Taste and adjust the seasoning.
  Serve either hot or cold. Finish with a few slices of deseeded chili
  if you like it hot.
  
  For the PARSLEY-AND-CHIVE SAUCE: Melt the butter in a small pan, stir
  in the flour and let it cool for a moment.  Whisk in the liquid
  gradually and stir over the heat until the mixture thickens.  Mix in
  the herbs, taste and add salt and pepper.  Reheat the meat in its
  broth (the cawl).  Remove the meat and keep it warm while you cook
  the root vegetables in the broth. Five minutes before you are ready
  to serve, add the leeks.  While the vegetables simmer, plain-boil the
  potatoes separately.  Stir the chopped parsley into the soup just
  before you bring it to table.
  
  As a second course, serve the meat with the potatoes, and the three
  sauces.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gooseberry Burnt Creams
 Categories: Fruit, Dessert, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Tart green gooseberries
      4 oz Caster sugar (or more)
      5 oz Granulated sugar
    1/2 lb Fromage blanc or quark
           -OR- creamy Greek yoghurt
    1/2 pt Double cream
 
  Choose a heavy-based saucepan with a large surface area.  Put the
  topped and tailed gooseberries into it, still moistened by the water
  in which they have been rinsed.  Cover and cook over very low heat
  until the fruit is perfectly tender.  (It does not matter if the
  berries collapse in cooking here as they will be crushed to a pulp
  for serving.)
  
  Crush the cooked fruit with a potato masher and cook for several
  minutes more, without the lid but just stirring occasionally, until
  most of the juices have evaporated leaving a thick fruit puree.  Add
  caster sugar to taste and stir until melted.  Spoon the puree into 8
  individual cocotte dishes and leave until cold.
  
  Beat the fromage blanc, quark or yoghurt into the cream until smoothly
  mixed then whisk until fairly stiff.  Spoon the creamy mixture over
  the cold puree and level the tops.  Cover and chill in the freezer
  for about 45 minutes until the cream firms up.
  
  Dissolve the granulated sugar in 1 tablespoon warm water in a pan
  placed over low heat.  Then turn the heat up and cook until the sugar
  carmelises to a rich shade of gold.  Quickly pour the burnt sugar
  evenly over the chilled creams and set aside for 20 minutes or so
  until the caramel sets in thin brittle sheets of gold.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wiltshire Whitsun Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 lb Sm. tart green gooseberries
      5    Elderflower blossoms*
    1/2 lb Plain wholemeal flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      2 lg Eggs
      6 oz Butter
      6 oz Pale muscovado sugar
           Demerara sugar
           Flowers & leaves to garnish
 
  *Note: A handful of sweet geranium or lemon balm leaves may be
  substitued for elderflower blossoms if desired.
  
  Top and tail the gooseberries into a mixing bowl.  Add the finely
  chopped leaves or the florets of elderflower carefully stripped from
  the stalk, and stir to mix with the fruit.  Sift the flour and baking
  powder into a separate bowl.  Cut then rub in the butter.  Stir in
  the muscovado sugar then the lightly beaten eggs. Finally, stir in
  the gooseberries and their flavourings.
  
  Grease the base of an 8-inch spring-clip cake tin, line and grease
  again. Turn the cake mixture into it and mound it up in the middle.
  Bake at 350 F (180 C) gas mark 4 for about 1 1/2 hours.  Unlike most
  cakes, this one does not come away from the sides of the tin when it
  is cooked.
  
  Cool for a few minutes before unmoulding.  Sprinkle with demerara
  sugar and decorate with fresh elder blossom or sweet geranium or
  melissa leaves, and serve the deliciously moist cake while it is
  still warm - as a pudding, with plenty of cream.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Muscat Ice
 Categories: Dessert, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Tart green gooseberries
      3    Heads elderflower blossoms*
      6 oz Caster sugar
    225 g  Greek strained yoghurt
 
  *Note: You may use 3 OR 4 heads of elderflower blossom.
  
  Put the gooseberries into a heavy-based saucepan or casserole.  The
  fruit should be still damp from rinsing under the tap but there is no
  point in spending time topping and tailing it as it is going to be
  sieved.  Add the florets of elder blossom, stripped from their
  stalks, and bury them among the fruit.  Cover tightly and cook in a
  low oven until the fruit is tender and pulpy - I allow 1 hour or so
  at 275-300 F (140-150 C) gas mark 1 or 2. Or cook over a very gentle
  flame if preferred.
  
  Add the sugar and stir until it no longer feels gritty.  Then rub the
  fruit and every drop of its sugary juices through a sieve to make a
  perfectly smooth seeless puree.  As soon as it is cold, spoon the
  pale aromatic puree into a chilled loaf tin, cover it and freeze.
  
  About an hour later, when the ice is firm around the edges but still
  soft in the centre, beat it or whizz it in a food-processor until
  mushy. Gently fold in the yoghurt, cover and freeze until solid all
  the way through.
  
  Then turn out the ice-cream, beat it again to break up any ice
  crystals and transfer it to 8 petit pots de chocolat.  Cover and
  freeze until about 1 hour before serving, when the ice-cream should
  be placed in the fridge to "ripen" it.  Amaretti biscuits go very
  well with this.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb Crumble-Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Fruit, British
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     14 oz Rhubarb, trimmed weight
     10 oz Self-raising flour
      7 oz Butter
      4 oz Caster sugar
      3 oz Pale muscovado sugar
      1    Orange
  1 1/2 oz Chopped hazelnut kernels
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      2 lg Eggs
 
  First make the nutty crumble topping.  Sift 4 oz flour into a bowl,
  and add 3 oz butter.  Do not rub in the fat but cut it in with a
  pastry blender or a pair of knives used like scissors.  Stir in the
  muscovado sugar and nuts and set aside.
  
  Sift the remaining 6 oz flour and the cinnamon into a separate bowl
  and reserve.  Slice the rhubarb into 1-inch chunks and finely grate
  the zest of the orange over it.  Cream the remaining 1/4 lb butter
  with the caster sugar until pale, creamy and light.  Break up the
  eggs with a fork and add them to the butter mixture a little at a
  time, alternating with spoonfuls of the flour and cinnamon and add 2
  tablespoons of orange juice.
  
  Spoon the cake mixture evenly over the base of a 9-inch spring-clip
  tin that has been greased, lined and greased again.  Scatter the
  rhubarb and orange mixture evenly over the top then cover the fruit
  with the nutty crumble mixture.  Bake at 350 F (180 C) gas mark 4 for
  about 1 1/4 hours.
  
  Leave in a warm draught-free place to cool down slowly after baking
  and wait until the crumble-cake is completely cold before taking it
  out of the tin.  Wait until the next day before eating.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb, Rose, & Strawberry Jam
 Categories: British, Can/preserv, Fruit, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Rhubarb, trimmed weight
      1 lb Small strawberries
           -- slightly underripe
    1/2 lb Highly scented rose petals
  1 1/2 lb Sugar
      4 sm Juicy lemons
 
  Rhubarb is an unreliable setter so the inclusion of lemon juice in
  this recipe is essential and I like to play it safe by cooking the
  lemon pips with the fruit in order to extract their pectin.  Slice
  the rhubarb and layer it in a large bowl with the whole hulled
  strawberries and the sugar. Pour on the lemon juice, cover and leave
  overnight.
  
  Tip the contents of the bowl into a preserving pan.  Add the lemon
  pips tied in a muslin bag and bring gently to a boil.  Boil for 2
  minutes then tip the contents of the pan back into the bowl.  Cover
  and leave in a cool place over night once more.
  
  Put the rhubarb and strawberry mixture back into the pan.  Pinch out
  the white tips from the bases of the rose petals and add the petals
  to the pan, pushing them well down among the fruit.  Bring to the
  boil and fast boil until setting point is reached, then pot in warm
  sterilised jars in the usual way. Makes enough to fill 6 or 7 jars.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boxwallah's Chutney
 Categories: Relish, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Rhubarb, trimmed weight
      1 lb Onions
    1/2 lb Raisins
    1/2 lb Sultanas
    1/2 oz Coriander seeds
      2 ts Curry powder
      6 oz Granulated sugar
    3/4 pt Raspberry vinegar
           -OR- red wine vinegar
 
  Cut the trimmed rhubarb into short lenghths and chop the onions quite
  finely.  Put both ingredients into a large pan and pour on the
  vinegar. Then lightly bruise the whole coriander seeds.  Add the
  seeds direct to the pan if you want to include them in the chutney.
  I love their spicy bite but some people complain that the seeds stick
  between their teeth, so you may prefer to tie them in a piece of
  buttermuslin and remove before potting.  Bring the contents of the
  pan slowly to boiling point, cover and simmer gently for 20 minutes
  or so to start softening the onion.
  
  Add the dried fruits, sugar, curry powder and 1 1/2 teaspoon salt.
  Stir to mix well.  Then continue simmering - this time without a lid
  ~ for 1 1/2 hours or so until the rhubarb has pulped down completely,
  the flavour is mellow, and the colour is rich and the consistency is
  thick. Stir the chutney occasionally as it cooks to prevent sticking,
  particularly towards the end.  Pot in warm sterilised jars and allow
  to mature for at least one month before eating.  The longer you can
  resist eating this chutney the better it seems to taste.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Croustades
 Categories: Vegetarian, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Wholemeal cottage loaf rolls
      1 lb Small cap mushrooms
    1/4 pt Double cream
      3 oz Butter
      1 sm Garlic clove
           Fresh rosemary
 
  Cut the knobs off the rolls and reserve as lids.  Scoop out most of
  the crumb from the rolls, taking care not to pierce the crusts.
  Crush the garlic with a pinch of salt, about 1/2 teaspoon fresh
  chopped rosemary and a good grinding of black pepper.  Mash these
  flavourings into 2 1/2 oz butter and spread it thickly over the
  insides of the hollowed-out rolls.
  
  Season the cream generously with salt and pepper, add 1/2 teaspoon
  fresh chopped rosemary and leave in a cool place to infuse.  Slice
  the mushrooms thickly, and heat the oven to 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6.
  
  Sit the rolls on a baking tray and put the lids beside them.  Bake
  for 10 minutes until heated through and slightly crisp.  Meanwhile
  heat a large frying pan.  Add 1/2 oz butter (don't be tempted to use
  more) and, when the foam dies down, saute the mushrooms. Cook them,
  stirring frequently, for 4-5 minutes to reduce them and intensify
  their flavour.  Pour on the cream and let it bubble up for a few
  seconds.  Turn and stir the mushrooms for a minute or so until every
  slice is coated with the scant but richly flavoured sauce.
  
  Away from the heat, check and adjust seasoning.  Pile the creamy
  mixture into the freshly baked croustades, top with the lids and
  serve straight away with a large green (or tomato) salad on the side.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), September
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quails on Mushrooms
 Categories: Poultry, British, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Plump young quails
      6    Big flat mushrooms; plus...
      6 oz Mushrooms for the stuffing
      6 oz Butter
      3    Garlic cloves (or more)
           Lemon juice
           Parsley
           Chives
           Tarragon
 
  To make the duxelles, first chop the 6 oz mushrooms plus the stalks
  from the big flat mushrooms on which you will sit the quails.  Chop
  finely, using a knife, not a food processor.  Mix in 1 very finely
  chopped garlic clove, about 9 tablespoons chopped fresh parsley, 3
  tablespoons snipped chives and 1 heaped tablespoon fresh tarragon (or
  a generous 1 1/2 teaspoon dried tarragon if fresh is not available).
  Cook the mixture in a little butter over moderate heat for 3 minutes
  or so, stirring often. Season well with salt, pepper and about 2
  teaspoons lemon juice.
  
  Let the duxelles cool before using it to stuff the birds.  Spread it
  gently between the flesh and the skin, all over the breast area, to
  plump up the quails prettily.  Secure the flap of neck skin under
  each bird with a wooden toothpick.  If the skin is torn, put the
  stuffing into the body cavities instead.  Tie up the legs of each
  bird to keep it neatly shaped.
  
  Make about 5 oz garlic butter and reserve it.  Choose a roasting tin
  or baking dish just large enough to take the 6 flat mushrooms side by
  side.
  
  When ready to cook, melt a nugget of the garlic butter in the
  roasting tin. Turn the birds in it to coat them with fat, then
  arrange them, breast down, on a rack suspended across the roasting
  tin.  Bake at 425 F (220 C) gas mark 7 for 15 minutes.
  
  Put the mushrooms in the tin, arranging them gill side up, and dot
  them with the rest of the garlic butter.  Put the rack of quails back
  on top of the tin and turn the birds breast side up. Position the
  birds carefully, placing each one above a mushroom so that the meat
  juices will drip on to the mushrooms during cooking.  Bake for 20
  minutes or so until the birds and mushrooms are perfectly cooked.
  
  Sit the birds on the mushrooms and serve straight away, or cover and
  keep hot at 250 F (120 C) gas mark 1/2 until ready to serve.  Rice,
  couscous or burghul, and crisp peppery watercress go well with this
  dish.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), September
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stewed Mushrooms & Queens
 Categories: Appetizer, Seafood, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Mushrooms
    1/2 lb Queens (bay scallops)
    1/4 pt Milk
    1/4 pt Single cream or jersey milk
           Tarragon vinegar
           Anchovy essence
      1 sm Bay leaf
           Fresh parsley
  1 1/2 tb Butter
  1 1/2 tb Flour
           Fried breadcrumbs; -OR-
           Triangles of fried bread
 
  Slice the mushrooms thickly.  Put them into a pan with the cold milk
  (and cream if using).  Three-quarters cover the pan and bring quickly
  to a fast simmer.   Add the bay leaf and a little salt and reduce the
  heat to very low.  Three-quarters cover the pan again and leave to
  stew gently for 5-6 minutes.  Strain to separate the liquid from the
  mushrooms, discard the bay leaf and keep the mushrooms warm in a very
  low oven.
  
  Make a smooth rich sauce with the butter, flour and creamy mushroom
  cooking liquor.  Stir in at least 1/2 teaspoon each tarragon vinegar
  and anchovy essence.  Leave to simmer for 2-3 minutes then season to
  taste with salt and pepper.  Quickly stir in the queens and
  immediately reduce heat to low. Half cover the pan and cook for just
  5 minutes.  Stir occasionally during this time and be sure to keep
  the heat very low - only a very occasional bubble should break the
  surface of the sauce or the shellfish may toughen.
  
  Draw the pan away from the heat, quickly stir in the mushrooms and
  check seasoning.  Then turn the contents of the pan into a warmed
  gratin dish (or divide it between warmed scallop shells for an
  elegant first course). Sprinkle with parsley and garnish with fried
  crumbs or triangles of fried bread.  Serve alone as a first course,
  or as a main course accompanied by some green beans and a little rice
  or a loaf of warm French bread.
  
  Serves 2 as a greedy feast, 3 as a main course, or 6 as an appetizer.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living", September 1988. Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Filo Mushroom Pies
 Categories: Appetizer, British
      Yield: 42 servings
 
      1 pk Filo pastry sheets
    3/4 lb Flat mushrooms (w/o stalks)
    1/2 lb Onions
      7 oz Feta cheese
      2 ts Whole cumin
      2 ts Coriander seeds
           - toasted & lightly crushed
           Butter or oil
      2 sm Eggs
 
  Chop the onion finely and soften it in a little butter or oil, then
  fry hard until frazzled.  Remove and reserve.  Dice the mushrooms and
  fry them in the fat remaining in the pan; stir and turn them as
  necessary to drive off most of their moisture and to concentrate
  flavour.  Mix the two vegetables together and season with plenty of
  salt and pepper.  Stir in the cumin, coriander and grated cheese.
  When cool bind with the beaten eggs.
  
  Unwrap the pastry one sheet at a time.  Keep the rest covered with a
  damp cloth to prevent drying out.  Cut each sheet into strips about 3
  x 10 inches long and brush on one side only with melted butter.  Put
  one rounded metal teaspoonful of the mixture near the short edge of
  the buttery side of the first pastry strip - about 1 inch from the
  bottom and slightly to the left-hand side.  Fold the bottom
  right-hand corner of the pastry diagonally over the filling to make a
  triangle.  Continue folding the pastry at right angles up the whole
  lenghth of the strip so you end up with a neat little triangular
  parcel.  Make more little pies in the same way until all the filling
  is used up.
  
  To cook, simply brush the pies all over with melted butter or oil,
  arrange them side by side on baking trays and bake at 350-375 F
  (180-190 C) gas mark 4/5 for about 20 minutes, until the pastry is
  golden and crisp.  It is best to turn the pies over after the first
  10 minutes and brush with more butter or oil.  For even crisper
  results the pies can be deep-fried.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), September
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach, Mushroom & Anchovy Salad
 Categories: Salad, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 oz Spinach
     10 oz Small cap mushrooms
      2 oz Anchovy fillets (canned)
      2    Lemons
      1    Mozzarella cheese
      6 tb Olive oil
     12 sl French bread, 1/2" thick
 
  Wash and dry the spinach, discard the stalks and put the leaves into a
  shallow salad bowl.  Put the canned anchovies and their oil into a
  large saucepan.  Add the olive oil, warm very gently and crush the
  anchovies with a wooden spoon so they dissolve and disintegrate.
  Lightly toast the French bread on one side only.  Paint the untoasted
  side with a little of the anchovy oil, then grill until gilded.
  
  Add 2 teaspoons lemon juice and a good grinding of pepper to the
  anchovy mixture remaining in the pan.  Slice the mushrooms thickly
  and add them to the salad bowl.  Pour on the anchovy dressing while
  still warm (use a plastic-bladed spatula to get every last drop formt
  he pan) and toss gently.
  
  Slice the mozzarella and add it to the salad just before serving.
  Garnish with the toasts or hand round separately, and offer wedges of
  lemon as well.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), September
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crowdie Butter with Garlic and Parsley
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pt Full cream milk
      2 ts Rennet (or follow instruct.)
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1    Garlic clove
      1 tb Parsley
      2 oz Butter
 
  This is not the usual oat gruel, but a fresh white cheese, naturally
  soured, or turned with rennet.  It needs a little livening - with
  herbs or spark it up with wild garlic.
  
  Heat the milk (100 F, 40 C).  Stir in the rennet.  Leave in a warm
  place until the milk junkets.  Line a sieve with muslin wrung out in
  boiling water. Set over a bowl and let it drain until crumbly.  Work
  in the seasoning, herbs and butter.  Yields 5-6 oz.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Skirlie with Mushrooms
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Mushrooms (wild if possible)
      5 oz Good meat dripping
      2    Onions
      1 lb Medium oatmeal
           Salt and black pepper
 
  Skirlie is only worth making with good drippings from roasted meat.
  Chrissie remembers that sometimes the cook at the big house would
  dole out, to people who wanted it, the wonderful dripping that had
  been used for the umpteen big roasts.  I like skirlie as a kind of
  risotto, with wild chanterelles that grow in profusion all over the
  island.  The mixture makes an excellent stuffing for a boned shoulder
  of lamb.
  
  Wipe and slice the mushrooms.  Skin and slice the onion thinly.
  
  Fry the mushrooms in 1 oz dripping in a wide frying pan.  Remove them
  and reserve.  Heat the rest of the dripping.  Fry the onion.  When
  the onions are soft but not brown, turn up the heat.
  
  Add the oatmeal, turn it in the drippings and brown a bit.  Throw in
  the mushrooms.  Add salt and black pepper to taste.  Serve hot.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Highland Oatcakes
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Medium oatmeal
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 oz Dripping or lard
      3 tb Hot water (or more)
 
  Sift salt and oatmeal in a roomy bowl.  Put on the gridle or a heavy
  frying pan to heat.  Bring the water to the boil with the fat.  Pour
  into a well in the oatmeal.  Work into a stiff dough and cut in half.
  Roll out on a floured board to the size of a dinner plate and about
  1/8-inch thick. Cut into quarters or farles.
  
  Test the gridle's heat by holding your hand over it.  Lay on one of
  the quartered rounds.  When the farles are ready, the surface stops
  steaming and begins to look dry and white.  Turn them and do the
  other side.  Dry off the oatcakes and lightly brown the edges in a
  hot oven or under the grill - they should curl up to the fire to
  prove that you have made your own.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poached Salmon with Lobster Butter
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, British
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Whole 7-8 lb. salmon
           Salt

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE BUTTER----------------------------
    1/2    Lemon (juice only)
      1    Green-black lobster brain OR
      4 tb Reduced lobster stock *
      6 oz Butter
 
  *Note: Lobster stock should be made from shells and heads, then
  heavily reduced to make 3-4 tablespoons.
  
  Scale, gut and wipe the fish.  Rub the inside cavity with salt.  If
  you have a fish kettle, steam the salmon whole over boiling water for
  30-35 minutes (making sure the water is kept topped up).  Or wrap the
  fish in lightly oiled foil and bake it in the oven for an hour at 325
  F (170 C) gas mark 3.  Leave it to rest while you make the butter.
  
  Warm the lemon juice in a small basin over a saucepan of simmering
  water. Beat in the nuggets of cold butter, adding more as each one
  melts.  Do this gently - it can split if you overheat it (revive it
  with a quick splash of cold water).  When you have an unctuous smooth
  sauce like thin cream, sieve and whisk in the green goo from the head
  of the lobster - which immediately turns the butter a wonderful
  orange-pink.
  
  Serve the salmon when it is just cool but still sweet-flavoured and
  full of its own juices, with piping hot baked potatoes and warm
  lobster butter.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lobster Tart
 Categories: Seafood, British, Pie/tart
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------THE PASTRY------------------------------
      8 oz Flour
      3 oz Cold lard
      3 oz Cold butter
      3 tb Ice-cold water (or more)

MMMMM------------------------THE FILLING-----------------------------
      1    Live lobster *
      5    Eggs **
    1/2 pt Milk
    1/2 pt Single cream
 
  *Note: the lobster should be good and lively.  A "cripple" - that is,
  one with only one claw for which you should pay less - will do fine
  for this dish. ** Leave out one of the egg whites, it is not needed
  for this recipe.
  
  Make the pastry first.  Sieve the flour with the salt into a roomy
  bowl. Chop the lard and butter into the flour with a sharp knife.
  Finish rubbing in the fat to flour with the tips of your fingers.
  Work in enough ice-cold water to give you a ball of soft (but not
  sticky) dough.  Cover with cling-film and leave the dough to rest in
  a cool place for half an hour or so.  Bring a panful of salted water
  to the boil - enough to swim the lobster.  Kill the lobster (or have
  you fishmonger do so) with a knife slipped in behind its head.  Or
  plunge the creature in the boiling water and hold it under with a
  wooden spoon (lobsters do drown).
  
  Cook the lobster for 3-4 minutes - just long enough to turn the shell
  scarlet and make the lobster easier to skin.  Drain it, sever the
  head and cut in half, taking care to save the greenish black brain
  (rather like liquid seaweed).  This will turn anything into which it
  is stirred wonderful sunny scarlet as it cooks.  Reserve the brain
  for making lobster butter.  Otherwise it can go into the tart filling.
  
  Remove the lobster meat from the body, claws and head (leave out the
  dark intestine which runs right down the body - and the stomach at
  the top of the head).  Slice the body meat into medallions.  Leave
  the claw meat whole.
  
  Bake the tart-case blind (lined with foil weighted with dried beans
  instead of filling) in a medium oven, 375 F (190 C) gas mark 5, for
  10 minutes.
  
  Beat the milk, cream and eggs together and season.  Pour the mixture
  into the cooled tart tin.  Arrange the lobster pieces over all.  Bake
  at 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6 for 30 minutes, until the egg-filling is
  set.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Herb Tart
 Categories: Vegetarian, Pie/tart, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Tart pastry
      3 oz Grated cheese*
      2 oz Fresh leaf spinach
      2 oz Greens **see note
      1 lg Leek
      4    Spring onions
      4 tb (heaped) chopped parsley
      5    Eggs (less 1 white)
    1/2 pt Milk
    1/2 pt Single cream
 
  *Note: Scottish Cheddar is excellent used in this recipe. ** Greens
  may be sorrel, dandelion, nettle tops and/or watercress.
  
  Make the tart as in the Lobster Tart recipe, replacing the lobster
  with the greens, washed and shredded, but not cooked.  Stir in the
  cheese before cooking.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hebridean Scotch Broth
 Categories: Soup/stew, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Neck of mutton *
      3 pt Water
      1 ts Salt
      3 oz Barley
      1 oz Onion
      1    Piece Swedish turnip (5 oz)
      1 lg Carrot
      1 sl White cabbage (1/2")
      1 lg Leek
           Black pepper
           Parsley; to finish
 
  *Note: Neck of mutton may be either whole or in chops (use lamb only
  if you have to).
  
  Start to cook this dish the day before serving.  Boil the neck of
  mutton in a large covered pan in 2-1/2 pints lightly salted water for
  2 hours (or more if the meat needs it).  Skim off all the scum and
  the excess fat as it rises to the surface of the water.
  
  Take out the meet when it is tender.  Put in the barley and leave it
  soaking in the stock overnight.  Next day, bring the stock and barley
  back to the boil.  Prepare and dice all the vegetables except the
  leeks to the stock and cook for another 60 minutes.  Add the leeks,
  cut into fine rings, 10 minutes before the end of cooking.
  
  If you want to have the meat in the stew, strip it off the bones, cut
  into small pieces and return it to the soup before reheating
  thoroughly.
  
  Put a tablespoon of parsley in each plate, and pour in the soup.  If
  you prefer a two-dish meal, serve the meat as a main course
  afterwards with potatoes - Golden Wonder are Chrissie's preferred
  variety.  Bake the potatoes if they are mature.  Or boil them in
  their jackets if they are new.  For really fluffy, floury boiled
  potatoes, Chrissie cooks hers whole and unpeeled (never cut a Golden
  Wonder) for 12-15 minutes, depending on average size.  Then drain out
  all but a little of the water, lid the pan tightly and steam the
  potatoes for another 10 or 15 minutes, shaking regularly, until they
  are dry and floury in texture.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrageen Pudding with Rhubarb and Rosehip Jelly
 Categories: Dessert, Pudding, Can/preserv, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 pt Milk
      1    Strip lemon peel
    1/2 oz Prepared dried carrageen *
      1 tb Sugar
      1    Egg
      2    Sticks rhubarb **
      4 tb Rosehip or redcurrant jelly
 
  *Note: Carrageen is a purple-brown or green fronded seaweed common on
  Scottish beaches on the mid-tide line.  It can be used to set and
  delicately flavour a jelly or thicken a soup.  If you gather your own
  fresh, you will need about 2 oz to set a pint of milk.  Dried
  carrageen is available in health-food stores, or Chinese supermarkets
  in processed form, as agar-agar. **Rhubarb sticks should be sliced
  and lightly poached with additional sugar.
  
  Bring the milk to the boil with the lemon rind.  Stir in the
  carrageen and cook for a couple of minutes until the milk thickens
  enough to coat the back of a wooden spoon.  Add sugar.
  
  Allow the mixture to cool until it is at blood temperature (100 F, 40
  C). Whisk the egg till frothy and then whisk in the warm milk until
  smooth. Pour the mixture through a sieve into a cold-wetted
  ring-mould.  Then put it in the fridge to set - it will only take
  about 1/2 hour.
  
  Run hot water over the outside of the mould and turn out the jelly.
  Fill the middle of the ring with a ladleful of rhubarb compote and
  surround with a little scarlet sauce of rosehip or redcurrant jelly
  melted in a little hot water.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cloutie Dumpling with Ginger Cream
 Categories: Dessert, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------THE DUMPLING-----------------------------
      1 lb Self-raising flour
      6 oz Fresh brown breadcrumbs
      4 oz Soft brown sugar
      1 ts Mixed spice
           A little extra cinnamon
      5 oz Vegetable fat or butter
      1 tb Black treacle
      2    Apples
           - cored, unpeeled, grated
      1    Carrot; grated
      8 oz Currants
      8 oz Sultanas
      1    Egg
    1/4 pt Milk
      1    18" sq. clean cotton sheet

MMMMM------------------------GINGER CREAM-----------------------------
      8 oz Crabbe's Green Ginger Wine
      3    Egg yolks
    1/4 pt Single cream
 
  Sieve the flour and mix it with the breadcrumbs, brown sugar and
  spices. Melt the butter or vegetable fat gently with the treacle.
  Mix the breadcrumbs, currants and sultanas.  Beat the egg and milk
  together and add to the dry ingredients, with the grated carrot and
  apple - use you hands. Add more milk if necessary to give a soft
  mixture which drops easily from the spoon.
  
  Put a square of cotton sheet in the pot of boiling water with an
  upturned plate on the bottom.  Take out the scalded cloth, spinkle it
  with flour and put in the dumpling.  Draw up the edges, and tie up
  firmly with white string, leaving enough room for the pudding to
  expand.  Lower the dumpling back into the boiling pan.  Keep water
  topped up.  Bring back to the boil. Boil steadily but gently for 4
  hours.  It can be longer but it shouldn't be less.
  
  Remove the dumpling and dip it staight in and out of cold water.
  Unwrap the dumpling on to a serving plate.  The skin will initially
  be white from the flour.  Put the dumpling on its plate in a very low
  oven to dry off for 20 minutes, when it will develop a fine, dark
  glossy skin.
  
  Meanwhile, make the ginger cream.  Beat the wine with the egg yolks
  over hot water until the mixture is thick, white and fluffy.  Stir in
  1/4 pint single cream.  Serve it in a pretty glass jug, with the hot
  pudding.
  
  The dumpling cuts wonderfully rich and dark.  Leftover slices are
  delicious fried in butter - lovely with cream for a special tea-time
  treat.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), February 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polenta with Tomatoes & Olives
 Categories: Vegetarian, Side dish, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Polenta
      3 oz Stoned olives (optional)

MMMMM--------------------FOR THE TOMATO SAUCE-------------------------
  1 1/4 lb (generous) canned tomatoes
      1 lg Onion
      1 tb Olive oil
           Garlic, bay, rosemary, thyme
           -- (or herbs of your choice)
 
  Bring 1-3/4 pints salted water to the boil.  Reduce the heat to low
  and add the grain as though you were making porridge: let the polenta
  trickle slowly through your fingers and stir the contents of the pan
  very vigorously all the time to prevent lumps forming.  Cook over the
  gentlest possible heat for about 20 minutes, stirring more or less
  continuously - like porridge and semolina, polenta is a great
  sticker.   The mixture is ready when it begins to come away from the
  sides of the pan, is perfectly smooth and so thick that your wrist
  aches from stirring.  Away from the heat beat in 1 tablespoon oil,
  the stoned olives if using them, and some salt and pepper.  Use the
  remaining 1 tablespoon oil to grease the interior of an 11-12 inch
  frying pan.  Turn the polenta into the frying pan, pack it down
  smoothly and level the top with an oiled spoon.  Set aside for a
  couple of hours until the polenta is cold and solid.  Loosen it with
  a palette knife, turn it out of the pan and cut into 6-8 wedges.
  
  To make the sauce, chop the onion finely and sweat it in the oil for
  10-12 minutes.  Add the roughly chopped tomatoes and their juices,
  several cloves of finely chopped garlic and a little bouquet of
  rosemary, bay and thyme, or plenty of well-flavoured herbs of your
  choice.  Let the mixture bubble away gently for 40 minutes or so,
  just stirring occasionally, until reduced to a rich and fragrant
  sauce.  Remove the bouquet of herbs, season with salt and pepper and
  add extra fresh chopped herbs to taste.
  
  Fry the wedges of polenta in very hot olive oil or unsalted butter,
  or a mixture of the two, for 4-5 minutes on each side until lightly
  crusted and heated right through.  Serve piping hot with the garlicky
  tomato sauce, and with a bowl of olives or grated Parmesan if you
  wish.  In the Veneto polenta sometimes accompanies small silvery
  fried fish, or a dish of Fergato alla Veneziana.  Quail or other tiny
  game birds threaded on to skewers and cooked on a spit, or a saute of
  chicken livers, and grilled sausages, are other good choices but
  polenta can be served on its own just as well.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), February
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oat & Onion Tarts
 Categories: Main dish, British, Pie/tart
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE PASTRY----------------------------
      5 oz Oat flakes (rolled oats) *
  2 1/2 oz Wholemeal flour
  2 1/2 oz Plain white flour
  2 1/2 oz Butter
  2 1/2 oz Lard
  2 1/2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
           Paprika & cayenne pepper

MMMMM----------------------FOR THE FILLING---------------------------
      1 lb Onions
    1/4 pt Soured cream
  2 1/2 oz Butter
  2 1/2 oz Cheddar cheese
      1    Whole egg
      1    Egg yolk
 
  *Note: Medium oatmeal may be used instead of oat flakes if preferred.
  
  Mix the oats, flours, cheese and a pinch each of salt, paprika and
  cayenne. Cut then rub in the fat, bind with water and leave out to
  rest.
  
  Peel, quarter and slice the onions wafer thin.  Turn them in melted
  butter, cover and leave to sweat over very gentle heat for 20 minutes
  or so until meltingly tender, just stirring occasionally.
  
  This pastry is rather difficult to handle so it is best to divide it
  in half and roll out in two batches.  Keep the other half covered
  meanwhile. Use the pastry to line little mincepie tins (or individual
  4-inch fluted flan tins if you prefer).  Don't worry too much if the
  pastry tears; patch it together by pressing it with your fingertips.
  Blind bake on a pre-heated baking sheet at 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6,
  allowing 12 minutes with greaseproof paper and beans, then 12 minutes
  without the lining.
  
  When the onions are beautifully soft, remove the lid and cook over
  increased heat for several minutes until they are a rich golden brown.
  Season generously with salt and black pepper, add a dash of cayenne
  and paprika and mix well.  Then tip the contents of the pan into a
  sieve placed over a bowl to drain off the buttery juices and to cool
  the onions slightly.  When the pastry cases are cooked, beat the eggs
  with the soured cream, add onions and check seasoning.  Spoon the
  mixture into the tarts, sprinkle the grated cheese on top and bake at
  400 F (200 C) gas mark 6 for 20-25 minutes until the filling is
  deliciously puffed up and golden.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), February
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley Broth with Chicken
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, British, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 oz Pot barley
  2 1/2 pt Good quality chicken stock
      1    Lemon
      1    Fat garlic clove
      2    Leeks
    1/4 lb Mushrooms
      2    Chicken livers, if available
           Cold cooked chicken meat *
      5 tb Coarsley chopped parsley
      1 sm Knob butter
 
  *Note: The recipe calls for 1-2 chicken livers, if available, and
  "shreds of cold cooked chicken meat, if available".
  
  Grate the zest of the lemon very finely and reserve it.  Put the
  barley into a soup pan, add 1 tablespoon lemon juice and cold chicken
  stock. Bring to the boil, cover and simmer for about 40 minutes until
  the barley is tender with just a hint of bite to the centre of the
  grain.  Add the chicken meat, if used, to the pan towards the end of
  this time to heat it through gently but thoroughly.
  
  When the barley is nearly ready, slice the mushrooms thickly, and
  slice the leeks (tender green parts as well as the white) very thinly
  indeed so that the leaves fall into ribbony shreds.  Cut the chicken
  livers, if available, into 2 to 3 pieces and saute them briefly in
  the butter until crusty on the outside but still pink within.  Fry
  the mushrooms in the fat remaining in the pan then reduce the heat
  and cook the leeks gently for 2 to 3 minutes, just shaking
  occasionally.  Then add contents of the frying pan to the soup pan.
  Add the mushrooms and check seasoning.
  
  Put the chicken livers into a warmed soup tureen and crush with a
  fork to make a coarse paste.  Add the finely chopped garlic, the
  lemon zest and most of the parsley.  Pour on the piping hot soup,
  stir to mix well, sprinkle the rest of the parsley on top and serve.
  
  Note: If the soup is not served straight away, but allowed to get
  cold, the barley will go on swelling and softening; when reaheated
  the dish then seems more like a stew than a soup.  I like it this way
  but you may prefer to lift out the grain and cool it down separately
  from the rest of the soup.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), February
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach & Stilton Pancakes
 Categories: Pancakes, Cheese/eggs, Vegetarian, British
      Yield: 18 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE PANCAKES---------------------------
      2 oz Buckwheat flour
      2 oz Plain white flour
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Butter; melted
    1/4 pt Milk
    1/4 pt Water

MMMMM----------------------FOR THE FILLING---------------------------
      2 lb Fresh spinich
      1 lg Onion
      3 oz Stilton cheese
      2 oz Walnut pieces
           Butter
      1    Garlic sliver

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SAUCE----------------------------
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Plain white flour
    1/2 pt Stock
    1/4 pt Double cream
      2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
      1 ts (heaped) Dijon mustard
 
  Make a smooth batter with the flours, eggs, milk and water, then stir
  in the cool melted butter for extra richness and to prevent sticking
  during cooking.  Use a 6-inch pan and make thin pancakes in the usual
  way, but be sure to stir the batter vigorously in between making each
  pancake or all the buckwheat flour will sink to the bottom of the
  mixture.  If preparing ahead, cool the pancakes then stack them
  (interleaved with greaseproof paper) and wrap in a foil parcel.
  
  To make the filling, wash and boil or steam the spinach until just
  tender. Chop it and squeeze out all the liquid (save the juices for a
  soup).  Chop the onion finely and sweat it in a knob of butter until
  it's deliciously soft.  Stir in the spinach, season with a little
  salt, lots of pepper and the garlic.  Toast the walnuts and crumbled
  Stilton into the spinach mixture to give it savoury flavour and bite.
  Stuff the pancakes with the mixture, roll them up neatly and pile
  them into a lightly buttered gratin dish.  Cover with foil and heat
  through in the oven for 25-30 minutes at 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6.
  
  Make a smooth rich sauce with the butter, flour, stock (preferably
  good chicken stock) and cream.  Let it simmer for about 5 minutes,
  stirring once or twice, then season with the cheese, mustard and salt
  and pepper. If the sauce is made ahead, reheat it in a double-boiler
  for serving, then pour it over the dish of pancakes just before
  bringing to table.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), February
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocktail Crunch
 Categories: British, Snack, Appetizer
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 oz Rye flakes
      3 oz Jumbo oat flakes
      3 oz Barley flakes
      3 oz Wheat flakes
      3 oz Peanut kernals
           -- not salted or dry-roast
      2 oz Flaked almonds
      2 oz Sunflower seeds
      1 ts (heaped) coriander seeds
      1 ts (heaped) cumin seeds
      1 tb Garam marsala
      1 ts Tumeric
      3 tb Sesame oil
      3 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Soy sauce
      5 tb Water
 
  Crush the coriander and cumin - lightly.  Mix them with the nuts and
  seeds on two baking trays.  Set the oven to 375 F (190 C) gas mark 5
  and put the baking trays into the oven while it heats up.  Meanwhile
  measure the flaked grains and mix them together in a large bowl.  Put
  into a cup the garam marsala, tumeric, a good grinding of black
  pepper, a scrunch of sea salt, the soy, both sorts of oil and the
  water.
  
  When the oven has reached the required temperature, stir the nut and
  seed mixture with the flaked grains.  Beat the spicy oil-and-water
  mixture with a fork to emulsify it, pour it on to the dry ingredients
  and stir for 2 minutes.  Spread the mixture out on to the baking
  trays and bake for 40 minutes until golden.  Swap the positions of
  the trays in the oven at least once during this time and stir the
  mixture occasionally to encourage even cooking.  Let the mixture
  become cold and crunchy before storing in an airtight jar.  It keeps
  well for about a month.  Makes enough to fill one jar.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), February
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Trout with Yoghurt and Herbs
 Categories: Fish, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    6-8 oz trouts
  7 1/2 fl Greek strained yoghurt
  2 1/2 fl Whipping cream
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
      2 tb Chopped chives
      2 tb Chopped fennel
      1 ts Fresh chopped thyme
      1 ts Fresh chopped oregano
      1 ts Fresh chopped tarragon
           Clarified or unsalted butter
 
  Choose a baking dish or other shallow oven-proof dish suitable for
  bringing to table, which is just large enough to take the trout in a
  single layer when they are arranged head to tail.  Thoroughly dry the
  fish with plenty of kitchen paper.  Make a frying pan very hot,
  barely smear it with fat and fry the fish briefly, one or two at a
  time, just long enough to brown their skins well on both sides.
  Transfer the fish to the ovenproof dish, arranging them neatly.
  Cover and store in a cool place.
  
  Chop the herbs and mix them gently in a small saucepan.  Measure the
  yoghurt and cream and pour them over the herbs.  Add plenty of pepper
  and some salt and stir to mix well.  Cover and leave to infuse.
  Everything up to this stage can be done in advance, but be sure to
  bring both the pan of sauce and the dish of trout back to room
  temperature about 1 hour before they are to be put back into the oven
  for cooking.  (Foods that are transferred straight from the fridge to
  cooker take a very long time to heat through properly.)
  
  About 1/2 hour before you plan to serve the trout, bring the
  yoghurt-and- herb mixture very slowly to simmering point, stirring
  all the while.  Pour the aromatic mixture over the fish, cover the
  dish and bake at 350 F (180 C) gas mark 4 for 20-25 minutes until the
  fish are piping hot and cooked through.  (To check a trout for
  readiness, insert the tip of a knife into its flesh just behind the
  head.)  Serve with steamed new potatoes and other young summer
  vegetables such as carrots and peas.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kennet Fried Trout
 Categories: Fish, British
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 sm Trout, (6-8 oz each)
      2    Rashers streaky bacon
      1 tb (heaped) coarse oatmeal
      2 oz Unsalted or clarified butter
      1    Lemon
           A little plain flour
 
  Rub the skins of the cleaned and dried trout very gently with a good
  grinding of pepper - this makes the rich skin deliciously piquant when
  crisply fried - then dust lightly with flour and salt.  Warm a frying
  pan large enough to take the two fish.  Toast the oatmeal in it, or,
  for a richer dish, fry it.  Remove and reserve.  Cut the bacon into
  snippets; fry gently until the fat runs, then increase heat to crisp
  the bacon a little. Remove and keep hot.  Dice the butter and add
  1-1/2 oz of it to the pan. When the butter foam dies down add the
  fish.  Press them down lightly to ensure they lie very flat, touching
  the pan base everywhere. After 4-5 minutes steady cooking in the
  bubbling butter, the skin on the underside of the fish should be
  crisp and golden brown.  Turn them carefully and fry on the second
  side in the same way.  Put the cooked fish on to warmed plates,
  scatter the bacon and oatmeal over them and keep hot.
  
  Wipe out the pan with kitchen paper.  Melt the remaining butter and
  cook to a rich shade of gold.  Quickly add generous 1 teaspoon lemon
  juice and a little salt and pepper.  Swirl to mix well, pour over the
  trout and serve immediately with wedges of lemon.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Riverside Kedgeree
 Categories: Fish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Cold cooked salmon or trout*
      1 lg Cucumber
      1 bn Watercress
    1/4 lb Shelled young peas
      8 oz Brown rice
      2 oz Butter
           A little caster sugar
           A little tarragon vinegar
 
  *Note: Salmon, sea trout or river trout may be used (farmed trout is
  unsuitable - its texture is too soft).
  
  Peel and seed the cucumber and cut the flesh into pieces no larger
  than matchsticks.  Sprinkle with 1/2 teaspoon each salt and caster
  sugar and 1 teaspoon tarragon vinegar.  Toss lightly and set aside
  for at least 40 minutes, or all day if you prefer, to draw out some
  of the cucumber juices. Drain well and pat dry.
  
  Cook the rice in double its volume of boiling salted water or, better
  still, in fish stock.  It will take about 35 minutes to become tender.
  Towards the end of this time cook the vegetables.  Boil the peas in a
  little lightly sugared water.  Melt the butter in a flameproof
  casserole, add the sticks of cucumber and cook over medium-low heat
  for 2 minutes, just stirring occasionally.  Break the skinned and
  boned fish into big flaky chunks.  Lay the fish on top of the
  cucumber - don't stir it in. Cover the casserole and reduce heat as
  low as possible.  Leave to cook, just shaking the casserole
  occasionally, until the cucumber is tender and the fish is well
  heated through - 4 minutes or so.  Meanwhile put the watercress into
  a food-processor and reduce it to green flecks.
  
  To assemble the kedgeree, add the prepared watercress, peas and
  cooked rice to the buttery fish and cucumber mixture.  Immediately
  draw the casserole away from the heat and season it generously with
  sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.  Toss the ingredients
  gently but thoroughly to mix them well and serve straight away with a
  large fresh green salad, or with a tomato salad if you prefer. Serves
  4-6.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Trout Mousse
 Categories: Appetizer, Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2    Trouts (6 oz ea. cleaned) *
      1    Whole egg
      1    Egg white
    1/4 pt Olive or sunflower oil
      5 tb Creamy yoghurt
      1 ts Dijon mustard
  1 1/4 ts Gelatine powder (or more)
           Fresh parsley & tarragon
    1/2    Cucumber
           Caster sugar
           Tarragon vinegar
 
  *Note: In lieu of fresh trout, 1/2 lb cooked and flaked fish may be
  used. Serves 6 as an appetizer, or 3 as a light lunch.
  
  If using fresh trout, poach them in the oven at 350 F (180 C) gas
  mark 4 for 30 minutes, then cool, skin, bone and flake - there should
  be about 8 ounces of cooked flesh.
  
  Separate the egg and use the yolk to make mayonnaise: season it with
  salt and pepper, gradually beat in the oil, then 1 teaspoon or so of
  vinegar to thin and flavour the sauce.
  
  Put the prepared fish into a food processor.  Add the mustard,
  yoghurt and 1 heaped teaspoon each fresh chopped tarragon and
  parsley, and whizz to a perfectly smooth puree.  Soak the gelatine
  (more may be necessary in hot weather) in 3 tablespoons cold water,
  let it soften and swell, then dissolve over low heat.  Cool for a
  minute or two before adding the liquid gelatine to the fish puree:
  pour it on in a thin stream while the machine is running.  Carefully
  and gradually beat the fish puree into the mayonnaise.  Quickly whisk
  the egg whites to snowy peaks and fold them into the fish puree.
  Taste and adjust the seasoning.  Divide the mixture between 6
  ramekins or 3 small souffle dishes.  Cover and chill for 2-3 hours
  until set to a soft cream.
  
  Seed the cucumber but do not peel.  Chop it finely, sprinkle it with
  1/4 teaspoon each salt and caster sugar and 1/2 teaspoon tarragon
  vinegar, and set aside for a couple of hours to draw out some of the
  cucumber juices. Drain and pat dry.  Top each mousse immediately
  before serving with a small spoonful of the cucumber - a good crunchy
  contrast to the soft textured mousse - and garnish with a tarragon
  leaf.  Oatcakes that have been gently warmed in the oven go well with
  this dish.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti with Salmon and Sorrel (Or Spinach)
 Categories: Fish, Pasta, British
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 oz Cooked and flaked salmon
      1 oz Fresh sorrel (or spinach) *
      2 oz Broccoli florets
      8 oz Fresh spaghetti
           Lemon juice and butter
      2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
 
  *Note: Amount given for sorrel (or spinach) is for trimmed weight.
  
  Take some sorrel or spinach leaves and roll them up tightly, a few at
  a time.  Snip across with scissors to make fine green ribbony shreds.
  Chop the broccoli florets into very small pieces indeed, and bring a
  large pan of salted water to the boil for cooking the pasta.
  
  Melt 2 oz butter in a flameproof casserole suitable for bringing to
  table. Add the broccoli, stir to coat with fat, cover with a lid and
  cook gently for just 1 minute.  Add a very generous grinding of
  pepper, some salt and 2 teaspoons lemon juice (or quite a bit more
  lemon if using spinach). Shake the casserole to distribute the
  flavourings, then scatter the flaked fish over the broccoli but do
  not stir it in.  Cover and leave over very gentle heat for just 3
  minutes or so.  Meanwhile cook the pasta.
  
  Draw the casserole away from the heat.  Add the well drained pasta,
  the Parmesan and most of the sorrel or spinach ribbons.  Toss
  quickly, gently and thoroughly so that every strand of pasta is
  anointed with butter and prettily flecked with the pink and green of
  the salmon and vegetables. Check the seasoning, sprinkle the
  remaining ribbons of greenery over the top and serve straight away,
  accompanied by wedges of lemon instead of the ubiquitous bowl of
  grated Parmesan cheese.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living", June 1987. Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scalloped Salmon or Trout
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Cold cooked salmon or trout
           - (sea or river trout)
    1/2 lb Florentine fennel
           - (trimmed weight)
    1/2 lb Steaky bacon
      2 oz Butter
  1 1/2 oz Flour
    1/2 pt Whole milk
    1/4 pt Fish stock
           Lemon juice
           Dijon mustard
           Toasted or fried breadcrumbs
 
  Serves 8 as an appetizer, or 3-4 as a main course.
  
  Trim the fennel in the usual way, scraping away fibrous threads with a
  potato peeler, or remove and discard the outer layers if they are
  tired-looking or tough.  Chop the flesh into small chunks and toss in
  1/2 oz melted butter.  Half cover the pan and leave to cook gently
  for 10 minutes just shaking the pan occasionally.  Add the bacon, cut
  into snippets, increase heat and cook, stirring frequently, for
  several minutes until the bacon is cooked and the fennel is steaked
  with gold.  Season with a good squeeze of lemon and plenty of pepper,
  and set aside to cool before mixing with the fish, which should be
  broken into large chunks.
  
  Make a sauce with 1-1/2 oz each butter and flour, the milk and the
  stock, and simmer gently, half covered, for about 10 minutes.  Away
  from the heat, season with scant 1 teaspoon mustard, a little salt
  and plenty of pepper. Gently fold in the fish mixture and divide
  between 8 small scallop shells or cocottes or put it all into one
  large gratin dish. Cover with foil and reheat in the oven straight
  away, or if preparing ahead, set aside in a cool place until close to
  serving time.  If the mixture is cold when it goes into the oven, it
  will probably need 25 minutes or so at 425 F (220 C) gas mark 7 to
  become thoroughly heated through. Stand the dish(es) on a pre-heated
  baking sheet to help speed things up. When thoroughly hot, remove the
  foil and sprinkle the fish mixture generously with freshly toasted or
  fried breadcrumbs immediately before serving.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Little Parcels of Trout
 Categories: Fish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Trout (8-9 oz ea cleaned wt)
    1/2 lb Courgettes
    1/2 lb Carrots
    1/4 lb Mangetout peas
  2 1/2 oz Butter
    1/2    Lemon
           Fresh mint & chives
 
  Cut the courgettes and carrots into matchstick shapes about 1 1/2
  inch long and less than 1/4 inch wide.  Steam them, and the
  mangetout, but only briefly, not enough to tenderise them fully.  Use
  kitchen paper to blot surface moisture from the partially cooked
  vegetables and set aside ot become cold.
  
  Season the softened butter with sea salt and black pepper.  Beat in
  1/2 teaspoon lemon juice and 1 tablespoon or so each chopped chives
  and mint. Use some of the flavoured butter to grease sheets of
  greaseproof or bakewell paper.
  
  Clean and fillet the trout, remove any little bones and cut the flesh
  of each fish into four long strips.  Lay three strips side by side
  down the centre of each sheet of buttered greaseproof paper.  Dust
  with sea salt and grind some pepper over the fish.  Add a squeeze of
  lemon butter.  Lay the mixed vegetables on top, spreading them thinly
  and seasoning with salt and pepper between layers.  Dot with the rest
  of the butter and, finely, add a sprig or two of mint to each parcel.
  
  To close the parcels, first draw two sides of the paper up over the
  filling and fold into a double pleat on top.  Then "hem" the raw
  paper edges at the sides by turning them over twice, and secure with
  staples. The parcels should be fairly baggy.  Put each parcel on to
  an oeuf sur le plat dish or space them out in large gratin dishes or
  on baking trays. Chill until about 1 1/2 hours before cooking, then
  bring back to room temperature.
  
  To cook, bake at 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6 for about 15 minutes.  Let
  each person unwrap his or her parcel at table.  Hand round bowls of
  new potatoes steamed in their skins, plain undressed watercress, and
  Hollandaise sauce so that everyone can help themselves.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), June 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Mackerel with Nuts, Grapes & Brown Rice
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 sm Smoked mackerel
           -OR- smoked trout
  2 1/2 oz Chopped, toasted hazelnuts
           -OR- walnuts
      1 lb Seedless grapes
    1/2 lb Brown rice
           Fresh mint or watercress
      2    Lemons
           A little sunflower oil
    1/2 pt Creamy yoghurt (or more)
 
  Cook the rice in double its volume of fast boiling salted water.
  Refresh it and dress it with 3 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 tablespoon
  oil and plenty of salt and pepper.  Stir in the nuts and 5-6
  tablespoons chopped mint or watercress.  (Watercress is good but mint
  is even better for this dish.) Press the mixture firmly into a
  lightly oiled ring mould, cover and chill for a couple of hours or
  more.
  
  Close to serving time, halve the grapes and toss them in the juice of
  half a lemon plus scant 1 tablespoon oil.  Add some mint or
  watercress sprigs. Skin, bone and flake the fish and mix it in
  gently.  Unmould the ring of rice, put some of the fish and grape
  mixture into the centre and garnish with sprigs of mint or
  watercress.  Serve the rest of the fish mixture in a separate bowl,
  and hand round the well-chilled yoghurt in a second bowl.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), January
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkish Chicken with Walnut Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, British, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    3-1/2 to 4 lb chicken

MMMMM--------------------POACHING FLAVOURINGS-------------------------
      2    Onions; sliced, unpeeled
      1    Bouquet garni
    1/2    Lemon (juice only)
           A few peppercorns
           Coriander seeds

MMMMM------------------------WALNUT SAUCE-----------------------------
      6 oz Walnut kernels
  1 1/2 oz Crustless bread
  1 1/2 ts Well-toasted corinader seeds
      1 bn Fresh coriander
      2 tb Walnut oil
      1 tb Paprika
 
  Put the bird into a pan, add the flavourings and enough hot (not
  boiling) water to cover the thighs.  Poach for 1-1/4 to 1-1/2 hours
  until tender. Let the bird cool in the pan, then skin and bone it.
  Wrap the flesh to keep it succulent.  Return the chicken skin and
  bones to the pan and simmer for 2 hours more.  Strain and de-grease.
  Reduce to 3/4 pints and cool.
  
  Scald or lightly toast the nuts and rub off the papery thin skins.
  Then, using a spice or coffee mill, reduce the nuts and coriander
  seeds to a fine powder.  Process in small batches, adding the bread
  to minumise stickiness. Transfer the aromatic powder to a bowl and
  gradually blend in as much of the stock as is needed to make a
  creamy-textured masking sauce ~ you probably won't need it at all.
  
  Cut the meat into small strips.  Put them into a pretty dish, adding
  some of the sauce and a little fresh chopped coriander between
  layers.  Spoon the rest of the sauce over the top to cover the meat
  completely.  Just before serving, stir ther walnut oil into the
  paprika.  Drizzle the mixture over the dish in a decorative red
  pattern and place a little bouquet of fresh coriander in the centre.
  Serve with rice and a green salad.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), January
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Love in Disguise
 Categories: Meat, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Pigs' hearts
      1 sm Onion
      4 oz Fresh breadcrumbs
           Bay leaves
           Parsley
      2    Lemons (zest only)
      1    Egg; beaten with milk
      2 tb Milk; to beat with egg
      2 ts Wine vinegar
           French mustard
     15 oz Canned tomatoes
           A little stock
      2 oz Butter
      1 oz Well-seasoned flour
           Few spoonfuls yoghurt (opt.)
 
  You may get 2 or 3 large hearts for this weight or several smaller
  ones. Whatever the size, they will be slashed; this is normal.  Wash
  the hearts and trim away waste - fat, membrane, gristle and arteries.
  Soak in lightly salted water for 10 minutes then rinse, drain and dry
  well.  Chop the onion finely and soften it in 1 oz butter.  Away from
  the heat stir in the breadcrumbs, lemon zest, 4 tablespoons parsley
  and lots of salt and pepper. Bind with the egg and milk.  Use the
  mixture to stuff the heart cavities, and secure the openings with
  toothpicks or cocktail sticks - there is no need to make perfect
  closures.
  
  Whizz the tomatoes in a blender, stir in the vinegar and add enough
  stock to make up to 1 pint.  Dust the hearts thoroughly with the
  well-seasoned flour.  Melt 1 oz butter in a flameproof casserole,
  stir in the leftover flour and let it brown a little.  Blend in the
  tomato mixture and make a smooth, bubbling hot sauce.  Lay the
  prepared hearts in the sauce and tuck the bay leaves among them.
  Cover with greaseproof paper and the lid, and cook at 325 F (160 C)
  gas mark 3 for 1 hour.  Turn the hearts gently and continue cooking
  for 1 to 1-1/2 hours more until meat is beautifully tender.
  
  Transfer the hearts to a warmed serving dish.  Stir the mustard into
  the sauce, add salt and pepper to taste - and carefully blend in the
  yoghurt if liked.  Pour the sauce over the hearts, scatter lavishly
  with chopped parsley and serve with boiled potatoes or noodles.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British) October 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork with Celery & Orange
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 3/4 lb Lean end belly of pork
      2    Pig's kidneys, (5 oz each)
      3 sm Oranges
      1    Head of celery
      1    Onion
      2    Garlic cloves; crushed
           Parsley and rosemary
      1    Bay leaf
           A little yeast extract
           Flour and dripping
 
  Halve and core the kidneys.  Soak them in acidulated water for 1 hour
  then drain and dry.  Bone the pork, reserve the rind and cut the
  flesh (there should be at least 1 lb.) into large cubes.  Grate the
  zest of all 3 oranges and squeeze the juice from 2.  Measure the
  juice and add enough yeast extract dissolved in hot water to make 8
  fl. oz. of liquid in total.
  
  Seal the pork briskly in a little hot fat and transfer to a casserole.
  Slice the kidneys thickly, dust with flour, brown in the hot fat and
  add to the casserole.  Tie together 3 sprigs of rosemary, 6 bruised
  parsley stalks and a bay leaf, and bury the bouquet among the meats.
  Roughly chop the onion and fry it briefly.  Sprinkle on 1-1/2
  tablespoons flour and pour on the liquid.  Bring to the boil,
  stirring, and add to the casserole. Add plenty of salt and pepper,
  the crushed garlic and orange zest. Cut the celery into large chunks
  and add it to the casserole - do not stir it in. Lay the pork rind,
  fat side down, on top of the celery, and put a sheet of greaseproof
  paper over that.  Cover with the lid and cook at 325 F (160 C) gas
  mark 3 for 1-1/2 hours, then at 300 F (150 C) gas mark 2 for a
  further 45 minutes.
  
  Remove and discard the paper, rind and bouquet of herbs.  Stir the
  casserole to mix the ingredients and add the flesh of the reserved
  orange, cut into V-shaped segments and ruthlessly stripped of all
  membrane.  Cover with fresh greaseproof paper and the lid; cool
  quickly and chill overnight.
  
  Remove surface fat and reheat the casserole gently but thoroughly for
  serving.  Check seasoning and garnish with fresh chopped parsley.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British) October 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cottagers' Meatloaf
 Categories: Meat, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/8 lb Lean belly pork *
    3/4 lb Pig's liver
      6 oz Lean green streaky bacon
      6 oz Grated carrot
      6 oz Fresh brown breadcrumbs
      2 sm Onions
      1 lg Green pepper
           Fresh chopped parsley
      1    Garlic clove; crushed w/salt
      4 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Lemon zest
    1/4 ts (generous) dried thyme
    1/4 ts (generous) dried marjoram
 
  *Note: Weight of pork is after trimming away bones, rind and excess
  fat.
  
  Mince the meats fairly finely, grate the carrot and chop the onion and
  green pepper very finely.  Mix all the ingredients very thoroughly
  with your hands and season well with salt and pepper.  Fry a small
  nugget to check seasoning and adjust to taste.  Oil a 2 lb loaf tin,
  line with greaseproof paper and oil again.  Pack the mixture into the
  tin.  Press it down well, dome the top of the meat nicely and press 2
  or 3 bay leaves on top.
  
  Cover the tin with foil.  Stand it in a roasting pan and pour in
  enough boiling water to come halfway up the sides of the loaf tin.
  Bake at 350 F (180 C) gas mark 4 for 1 hour.  Reduce temperature to
  325 F (160 C) gas mark 3, remove foil lid and bake for a further 30
  minutes.
  
  Cool the cooked meatloaf for 30 minutes, then tilt the tin and pour
  off the juices.  Set aside in a cold place overnight before serving
  to allow flavours to blend and mature.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), October
  1987. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Liver Stroganoff
 Categories: Main dish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken livers
    1/2 lb Cap mushrooms
      2    Onions
  1 1/2 oz Unsalted or clarified butter
    1/2 pt Soured cream
      3 tb Fairly acid yoghurt
 
  Thoroughly heat a large saute or frying pan.  Add a scant 1/2 oz of
  the butter and tilt so that the fat runs sizzling all over the pan
  base.  Add the mushrooms (whole if small or sliced thickly if large)
  and saute over high heat for 5 minutes.  Remove and keep hot.
  
  Add the rest of the butter to the pan, then the onions which should be
  thinly sliced and pushed into rings.  Cook very gently indeed for
  15-20 minutes until beautifully softened.  Meanwhile stir the yoghurt
  into the soured cream and season very generously with salt and
  pepper; trim the chicken livers and pat them dry with kitchen paper.
  
  Lift the onions out of the pan with a slotted spoon, so all the
  buttery juices drip back into the pan, and keep them hot.  Increase
  the heat under the pan and saute the chicken livers for about 3
  minutes so they become crusted with brown on the outside, but remain
  deliciously pink and tender within.
  
  Return the mushrooms and onions to the pan and immediately pour on the
  seasoned soured cream.  Let the sauce bubble up and cook for a few
  minutes until it is very hot, slightly reduced and thickened.  Stir
  gently every now and again to encourage the sauce to cling creamily
  to the meat and vegetables.  Check seasoning and serve without delay.
  Green beans and triangles of fried bread go well with this dish, and
  I like to accompany it with plenty of crusty hot French bread to mop
  up every luscious drop of sauce.  More substantially, you could
  substitute rice or thin ribbons of pasta for the bread.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), March 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef with Pickled Walnuts
 Categories: Meat, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/4 lb Stewing steak
    1/2 lb Ox kidney
      4    Onions
      1 lb Carrots
      6    Pickled walnuts (or more)
      2    Bay leaves
      3 tb Beef dripping or olive oil
  1 1/2 oz Flour
      1 pt (scant) light stock
 
  Prepare the meats in the usual way, removing all traces of fat,
  gristle and membrane, and cut into large chunks.  Cut the onions into
  one-eighths. Scrub or scrape the carrots and cut them into 1/2 to 3/4
  inch lengths. Toss with the meats, onions and carrots in the flour
  (which should be well-seasoned) and brown and seal, in batches, in
  sizzling hot frying pan barely filmed with dripping or well-flavoured
  oil.  Transfer to a flameproof casserole.  "Wash out" the frying pan
  with some of the stock and add it to the casserole.  Add the rest of
  the stock, 2 tablespoons juice from the jar of pickled walnuts and
  the bay leaves.  Season with salt and pepper and bring to simmering
  point. Cover and cook at 300 F (150 C) gas mark 2 for about 3 hours
  until the meats are very tender and the gravy is deliciously rich.
  
  Add the quartered or sliced walnuts to the beef.  Check the stew for
  seasoning and cook for about 15 minutes more before serving.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), January
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roman Pie
 Categories: Meat, Pasta, Main dish, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------FOR THE MEAT LAYERS-------------------------
      1 lb Cooked turkey or chicken *
    1/4 lb Cooked ham
    1/4 lb Cooked tongue
     50 g  Canned anchovy fillets
    3/4 lb Mushrooms
      1 lg Bunch parsley
           Lemon juice
           A few black olives
           Canned consomme **

MMMMM--------------------FOR THE PASTA LAYERS-------------------------
      6 oz Macaroni
 12 1/2 fl Milk
    1/2 pt Single cream
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Plain flour
      4 oz Cheddar cheese
      1 oz Parmesan cheese
 
  *Note: Weight given for turkey or chicken is skinned, boned weight.
  Goose, pheasant and other birds can be used instead.
  
  **Well-flavoured, clear stock and a little gelatine powder may be
  substituted for canned consomme.
  
  Make a smooth, rich sauce with the butter, flour, milk and cream.
  Let it simmer for about 4 minutes.  Then, away from the heat, stir in
  the grated Cheddar and Parmesan, a seasoning of nutmeg and some salt
  and pepper - but go carefully with the salt in view of the cheeses
  and salted meats used in this dish.  Let the sauce cool while you
  cook the macaroni in plenty of salted water until al dente.  Plunge
  the pasta in cold water to arrest cooking, drain well and stir it
  into the sauce.
  
  Slice the mushrooms thickly and saute them well in a non-stick pan
  with no fat.  Season them with about 1 1/2 teaspoon lemon juice,
  plenty of pepper and a little salt and allow to become cold.  Then
  cut the turkey meat into pieces about the width and half the length
  of your little finger, and mix the poultry and mushrooms together.
  
  Cut the ham, tongue and drained anchovies into strips about the same
  length as the poultry but considerably less wide.  Mix the anchovies,
  ham and tongue with a good quantity of fairly coarsely chopped
  parsley.
  
  Sprinkle about one third to half of the ham mixture over the base of a
  shallow dish of 4 to 4-1/2 pint capacity.  Cover with half the
  macaroni mixture, then all the turkey mixture, then the rest of the
  macaroni. Spread each layer evenly and press down into the dish with
  a potato masher before adding the next layer.  Cover and chill for 30
  minutes.
  
  Arrange the remaining ham mixture on top and scatter the olives to
  make a decorative display of the pink, green and black ingredients.
  Press down lightly then pour on enough barely melted consomme or cool
  jellied stock to cover.
  
  Cover the dish and refrigerate for a few hours until set.  Better
  still, refrigerate Roman pie overnight to allow flavours to blend and
  mature, but be sure to bring it back to room temperature at least two
  hours before serving.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), December
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Neat's Tongue (To Serve Hot or Cold)
 Categories: Meat, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Pickled ox tongue (4-5 lbs.)
      2    Onions
      2    Carrots
      2    Celery stalks
           Bay leaves
           Parsley
           Rosemary
     12    Black peppercorns

MMMMM----------------ALSO, IF SERVING TONGUE COLD---------------------
           A little Madeira
           Gelatine powder
 
  Rinse the tongue and then soak it in plenty of cold water for at
  least 12 hours.  Change the water once or more during this time.
  Next day choose a heavy-based saucepan or flameproof casserole that
  will hold the tongue snugly.  Put the tongue into it, cover with cold
  water, bring to the boil and skim.  Taste the water; if it is very
  salty, tip it away, add fresh water and bring to the boil again.  Add
  the chopped vegetables, peppercorns and a bouquet of bay, parsley and
  rosemary.  Cover tightly and cook very gently on top of the stove or
  in an oven heated to 300 F (150 C) gas mark 2 for about 4 hours until
  the tongue is so tender that a skewer will go through the root end
  like butter.  Lower the temperature as necessary; the meat will be
  best if barely a bubble breaks the surface of the liquid as it cooks.
  Skin the cooked tongue while it is still hot. Then cut away the fat
  and gristle from the end and remove all small bones if the butcher
  has not already done this.  Skim off all the fat from the cooking
  liquor and save it for the sauce and for soups.
  
  IF THE TONGUE IS TO BE SERVED HOT, carve it in thin slices while it is
  still hot and arrange it prettily, overlapping slices like tiles, on a
  large warmed serving dish.  Pour some good hot sauce over it, cover
  the dish with foil and place in the oven for about 10 minutes to heat
  through. The spiced Kumquat Sauce recipe is one of my favourites and
  I like to serve extra in a sauce boat.
  
  IF THE TONGUE IS TO BE SERVED COLD, mould and glaze it while still
  warm. Curl the tongue to make it fit a small round container with
  straight sides. Traditional tongue-presses usually measure about 5-6
  inches in diameter; a cake tin or souffle dish of similar size will
  do just as well.
  
  To glaze, melt 2 teaspoons gelatine powder in 1 tablespoon water, then
  blend in a scant 1/2 pint tongue cooking liquor (seasoned and reduced
  as necessary for good flavour), and give it a little oomph with 1-2
  tablespoons Madeira.  Pour over the tongue as much of the liquid
  jelly as is needed to fill gaps.  Press the tongue down with a saucer
  or plate which fits just inside the tin, weight it down heavily and
  leave overnight in a cold larder until meat and jelly are set.  Chill
  any left-over jelly separately so that it can be diced and used to
  garnish the tongue when it is served.
  
  Unmould the tongue on to a flat dish for serving.  Decorate it and
  accompany it with a fine sauce such as a classic Cumberland sauce or
  Piquant Parsley and Caper Sauce.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), December
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauces for Tongue
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Meat, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------FOR SPICED KUMQUAT SAUCE-----------------------
      5    Kumquats
      3    Bay leaves
      9    Whole cloves; bruised
    3/4 pt Stock, pref. from tongue
      1 lg Orange (juice only)
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Tarragon vinegar
    3/4 oz Butter
      2 tb Flour
           Salt and pepper
      4 tb Thick cream

MMMMM-----------------FOR PARSLEY & CAPER SAUCE----------------------
      1    Garlic clove
      1 oz Parsely; chopped
    1/2 oz Chives
  1 1/2 oz Capers
      1 sm Lemon; juice & zest only
      8 fl Oil
           Black pepper
 
  FOR SPICED KUMQUAT SAUCE: Slice and remove the pips from the
  kumquats. Put them into a pan with the bay leaves, cloves, stock,
  orange juice, lemon juice and tarragon vinegar. Bring very slowly to
  the boil. Add a little salt and pepper, cover and set aside for 20
  minutes to infuse. Strain, reserving the kumquats, liquid and spices
  separately. Make a smooth sauce with the butter, flour and cooking
  liquid. Return spices to the pan and simmer uncovered for 20 minutes.
  Stir regularly to prevent sticking and to stop a skin from forming.
  By the end of this time, the sauce should be the consistency of
  cream; if necessary boil it hard for 2-3 minutes to reduce and
  thicken it a little. Strain to extract the spices, stir in the cream,
  then the kumquats. Reheat gently, adding a few pinches of ground
  cloves, more lemon juice and other seasonings to taste.
  
  FOR PARSLEY & CAPER SAUCE:  Crush the garlic clove with a little
  salt. Then process it briefly with the chopped parsley, chives and
  capers.  Add the lemon juice and zest, and the oil and whizz again
  until the mixture is reduced to a thickened fragrant green puree.
  Add a coarse grinding of black pepper and leave it for 1 hour or so
  to allow the flavours to blend.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), December
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Home-Candied Angelica
 Categories: Candy, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Angelica
      1 lb Granulated sugar
 
  The most important thing about candying angelica is to choose stalks
  that are young and tender.  In other words, angelica is only worth
  candying in April or May when the shoots are new and softly coloured.
  Trim the young shoots into 3-4 inch lengths, put them into a pan,
  cover with water and bring to a boil.  Drain and scrape away tough
  skin and fibrous threads with a potato peeler, rather as you might
  prepare celery.  Return the angelica to the pan, pour on fresh
  boiling water and cook until green and tender. If the shoots are as
  youthful as they should be, this will take 5 minutes or less.  Drain
  the stalks and dry them.  Put them into a bowl and sprinkle
  granulated sugar between layers, allowing 1 pound of sugar for every
  1 pound of angelica.  Cover and leave for 2 to 3 days.  Slide
  contents of the bowl into a heavy-based pan.  Bring very slowly to
  the boil and simmer until the angelica feels perfectly tender and
  looks clear. Drain, then roll or toss the shoots on greaseproof paper
  thickly strewn with sugar, letting the angelica take up as much sugar
  as will stick to it. Then dry off the angelica - without letting it
  become hard - in the oven, using the lowest possible temperature.  I
  place the stalks directly on the oven shelves (with trays underneath
  to catch any falling sugar) and find they need about 3 hours.  Wrap
  and store after cooling completely. Packed into pretty little boxes,
  home-candied angelica makes a charming present.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Angelica Tartlets
 Categories: Dessert, Pie/tart, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 oz Home-candied angelica
      1    Shortcrust pastry *
  1 1/2 oz Butter
  1 1/2 tb Honey
    1/2 c  Curd cheese
      1    Egg yolk; mixed with:
      1 ts Milk
      1    Egg white
 
  *Note: Shortcrust pastry made with 7-8 oz flour will be about right
  for this recipe.
  
  These tarts are irresistible when made with home-candied angelica, as
  dull as ditchwater when store-bought is used.  Chop the angelica into
  small pieces, cover with warm water to rinse off some of the sugar
  and set aside for a few minutes.  While the angelica soaks, line 18 x
  2 1/2 inch tartlet tins with the shortcrust pastry and start
  preparing the filling.  Dice and barely melt the butter in a small
  saucepan.  Away from the heat, beat in the honey, then the curd
  cheese, then the egg yolk mixed with the milk. Stir in the well
  drained angelica.  Whisk the egg white to snowy peaks and fold it in.
  Spoon the mixture into the pastry-lined tartlet tins and bake at 400
  F (200 C) gas mark 6 for 30 minutes until puffed up and golden. Serve
  as soon as cooled from cooking.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), May 1987.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Stew
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, British, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Monkfish (or see note)
           Seasoned flour
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 oz Ginger root
           -- peeled & finely sliced
      5    Garlic cloves; peeled,sliced
      2    Dried chilies; broken
      1 tb Mustard seeds
      1 ts Asafoetida
      1 ts Tamarind; soaked in water
      8 oz Mushrooms
  2 1/2 pt Water
      1 lb Potatoes; peeled & diced
           Sea salt
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/4 oz Coconut, grated
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
 
  *Note: Any dense white fish, or 4 large shark steaks may be
  substituted for monkfish.
  
  Cut the fish into chunks and toss in the seasoned flour.  Heat the
  two oils together and throw in the ginger, garlic, chilies, mustard
  seeds and asafoetida.  Cook for a moment then add the fish, saute for
  another moment, then add the mushrooms, tamarind and the 2 1/2 pints
  of water with the pototoes.  Bring to the boil and simmer for 20
  minutes.  Taste and season if necessary.  Add the coconut to thicken
  slightly, then throw in the coriander leaves.  Serve with saffron
  rice.
  
  Source: Colin Spencer in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bara Brith (Speckled Bread)
 Categories: Bread, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 oz Dried fruit
      8 oz Dark brown sugar
    1/2 pt Strong hot tea
     10 oz Self-raising flour
      1    Egg
 
  This is Wales' traditional rich fruit bread.  South Wales makes it
  with baking powder; Northerners prefer yeast as the raising agent.
  Either way it's delicious.
  
  Soak the dried fruit and sugar overnight in the tea.  You can use
  either fresh tea, or the cold dregs from the teapot (this gives a
  good strong colour).  Next day, sieve the flour and fold it it into
  the fruit.  Mix in the lightly beaten egg.  Line a small loaf-tin
  with buttered paper then tip in the mixture, smoothing it well into
  the corners.
  
  Bake in a gentle oven at 300 F (150 C) gas mark 2 for 1 1/2 hours.
  Cool and store for at least 2 days in a tin so that it matures moist
  and rich. Traditionalists say you should never butter the Bara Brith,
  but Dorothy says do, as it's lovely that way.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tea and Lemon Ice
 Categories: Dessert, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 pt Strong fragrant tea *
      2    Lemons
      8 oz Sugar
    1/2 pt Water
      1    Egg white
      6 tb Carbonated water
 
  *Note: Suggested teas are Lapsang Souchong or Earl Grey.
  
  In a Welsh household the kettle sits permanently on the hob ready to
  refill the teapot.  This delicious ice makes a refreshing change in
  summer. Or serve as a dessert with Welsh cakes or with a plate of
  buttered Bara Brith. Makes approximately 2 pints.
  
  Strain the tea and leave to cool.  Peel the lemons, avoiding the
  bitter pith, and squeeze the juice.  Bring the sugar and water to
  boil with the lemon rind, stirring to dissolve all the sugar.  Leave
  it to cool.  Beat the egg white lightly with the carbonated water.
  Mix all the ingredients thoroughly with a whisk.
  
  Freeze the mixture - an ice-cream-maker is best.  If you use the
  ice-making compartment of the fridge, take it out when frozen, beat
  it until it has doubled in volume, and re-freeze it.  Don't serve the
  ice rock-hard - transfer it to the fridge half an hour before serving.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocklecakes with Laverbread
 Categories: Bread, Main dish, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Flour
      1    Egg
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      8 oz Cockles or clams (shelled)
      2 tb (heaped) chopped parsley
           Oil for frying
      8 oz Prepared laverbread; -OR-
    1/2 oz -Dried nori, reconstituted
    1/2    Lemon (juice only)
 
  Sieve the flour.  Separate the egg.  Work the yolk and oil into the
  flour and beat in the water gradually until you have a thick batter.
  Whisk and leave aside for 30 minutes.  Whisk the egg-white until
  stiff and stir into the batter.  Add thc cockles, then salt, parsley
  and herbs as necessary. Heat two fingers of oil in a heavy pan.
  Deep-fry the batter in spoonfuls until the cakes are golden and
  crisp.  Heat up the laverbread with the lemon juice.  Serve piping
  hot, with wedges of lemon.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Laverbread and Crab Souffles with Cockle Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Bread, British
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------THE SOUFFLES-----------------------------
      1    Boiled crab; -OR-
      6 oz -Prepared Crabmeat
      6 oz Prepared laverbread
           -OR- nori or spinach
      2 oz Butter
      2 oz Flour
    3/4 pt Milk
      3    Eggs
    1/2 ts Grated nutmeg
           Salt & pepper

MMMMM------------------------COCKLE SAUCE-----------------------------
    1/4 pt White sauce from souffle mix
    1/4 pt Whipping cream
      4 oz Cockles or clams (shelled)
      2 oz Prepared laverbread **
 
  If the crab is whole, pull the body apart and pick out all the meat -
  discarding only the mouthpiece and the grey "dead man's fingers" that
  fringe the inside carapace.  For extra flavour, make a stock with crab
  shell, flavoured with a piece of carrot and a quarter of onion, and
  boil down to a couple of well-flavoured tablespoons which can replace
  the equivalent milk in the basic white sauce given above.
  
  Prepare the white sauce; melt the butter in a small pan.  Stir in the
  flour and fry gently until the mixture is still pale but sandy.
  Whisk in the milk slowly, beating till you have a thick sauce.
  Simmer for 5 minutes. Preheat the oven to 400 F (200 C) gas mark 6.
  Stir the crabmeat and prepared laverbread into the sauce.  Season
  with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Separate the eggs.  Beat the whites
  until quite stiff.  By now the sauce will be cool enough to stir in
  the yolks.  Fold in the whites, turning well to "tire" the mixture.
  Taste and adjust the seasoning. Butter eight small souffle dishes and
  spoon in the mixture, leaving a finger's worth for expansion.  Bake
  for 10-12 minutes until puffed up and golden.
  
  Meanwhile make the cockle sauce.  Heat up the reserved white sauce
  with the cream.  Stir in the cockles and laverbread.  Season with the
  salt and freshly milled pepper.  Serve with the souffles as soon as
  they are ready.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), April 1989.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rich Venison & Mushroom Stew
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Game, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Good stewing venison
           -- (trimmed weight)
      1    Onion
    3/4 lb Small flat mushrooms
  2 1/2 fl Red wine vinegar
  2 1/2 fl Water
    3/4 pt (scant) beef or game stock
           Butter
           Oil
           Flour
           Sugar
           Bay leaves

MMMMM------------------FOR THE FORCEMEAT BALLS-----------------------
      8 oz Fresh breadcrumbs
      8 oz Grated suet
      2    Lemons (grated zest only)
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
      1 lg Egg
      3 tb Fresh chopped parsley
 
  Cut the venison into large chunks and marinate for about 24 hours in
  the water and vinegar with 2 bay leaves and plenty of pepper.
  
  Make the forcemeat mixture, seasoning it well and binding it with the
  lightly beaten egg.  Shape into 24 small balls, fry briskly until
  golden- brown and crisp and reserve.  Then fry the mushrooms hard in
  a very little hot fat.  Remove and reserve separately.
  
  Drain and dry the meat well, reserving the marinade.  Dust the
  venison with well-seasoned flour and brown and seal in batches.
  Transfer it to a 4 pint flameproof casserole; ideally this should be
  no more than 8 inches in diameter across the top.  Chop the onion
  finely and fry gently. Sprinkle on 2 tablespoons flour, pour on the
  marinade liquid and the stock over the meat and season with salt,
  pepper, 1/2 teaspoon sugar and 2 bay leaves.
  
  Bring to a bare simmer, cover tightly and cook over the lowest
  possible flame (or in a low oven if you prefer) until the meat is
  deliciously tender and the gravy is dark and rich.  Shoulder meat may
  need as little as 1 1/2 hours, lesser cuts of meat will need
  considerably more.  Stir occasionally to prevent sticking.  When
  ready, remove the bay and check seasoning. Cool and refrigerate
  overnight if not to be served on the same day.
  
  To finish the dish, bring everything back to room temperature.  Add
  the prepared mushrooms to the stew, pushing them well down into the
  gravy, then cover the surface with the forcemeat balls and bake -
  without a lid to keep the forcemeat balls really crisp - at 400 F
  (200 C) gas mark 6 for about 25 minutes.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Highland Sausage Roll
 Categories: Meat, Main dish, Appetizer, British, Game
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 oz Venison (trimmed weight)
      6 oz Belly of pork (trimmed wt.)
      2 oz Pitted prunes
      1 sm Onion
           Remains of a pot of tea
      3 tb Port
           Allspice, thyme or Worcester
      1 lb Ready-made puff pastry
      1    Beaten egg to glaze
 
  Mince the meats fairly finely, chop the onion very finely and mix
  together. Season with a good grinding of pepper - but no salt - and
  some allspice, thyme or a few shakes of Worcester sauce.  Pour on the
  port and mix well, then cover and leave for several hours or
  overnight to allow the flavours to blend.  Cover the prunes with cold
  tea and leave to soak for several hours.
  
  Season the sausagemeat with salt and roll it into a long, fat sausage
  shape.  Roll the pastry out to a rectangle and lay the "sausage" down
  the length of it.  Lay the whole drained prunes on top of the meat.
  Damp one long edge with beaten egg, roll up carefully and seal.
  Alternatively you may like to enclose the sausage in a decorative
  pastry plait.  In this case, roll the pastry out to a square, lay the
  "sausage" down the centre and place the whole drained prunes on top.
  Cut the pastry diagonally into 1/2-inch strips on either side of the
  meat.  Damp the end of each pastry strip with beaten egg then fold
  the strips alternately from each side, over the meat to create a
  plait effect.  Seal the pastry ends.
  
  Slide the pastry parcel on to a damp baking sheet and glaze the top.
  If you have made a sausage roll, decorate it with pastry leaves and
  make one or two steam slits in the top of the pastry.  Bake at 425 F
  (220 C) gas mark 4 for a further 25 minutes or so.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Venison Pate
 Categories: Meat, Game, British
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Venison (trimmed weight)
    1/2 lb Belly of pork (trimmed wt.)
    1/2 lb Chicken livers
      1 sm Orange
      1    Lemon
      2    Garlic cloves
  1 1/2 ts Fresh thyme (more to taste)
           Whole and ground bay leaves
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/4 pt Red wine
      1 ts Gelatine powder
           A few kumquats to decorate
 
  Mince all three meats fairly finely and put them into a bowl.  Add
  the zest of the orange and lemon, the crushed garlic, the thyme,
  olive oil, vinegar, a generous pinch of powdered bay and plenty of
  black pepper.  Mix thoroughly and stir in the wine.  Cover and leave
  to marinate overnight.
  
  Season with salt - I find 1 teaspoon about right but fry a small
  nugget of the mixture to check.  Turn the pate into a terrine of
  about 2 1/4 pint capacity.  Pack the mixture well down into the
  corners of the dish and use a spoon to hollow out slightly the centre
  top.  Cover with greaseproof paper and foil, stand the dish in a
  roasting pan containing enough hot water to come halfway up the sides
  of the dish.  Bake at 325 F (160 C) gas mark 3 for 2-1/4 to 2-1/2
  hours.
  
  Using a bulb baster, remove and reserve most of the juices that
  surround the pate.  Replace the greaseproof paper and foil, press the
  pate lightly with 1-1/2 to 2 lb weights and cool for 1-1/2 hours.
  Then drain off any remaining juices that have not been re-absorbed by
  the pate.  Mix all the venison juices that you have collected with
  the juice of the orange and measure.  Add a splash of water if
  necessary to make 1/2 pint in total. Dissolve the gelatine powder in
  the mixture and use it to glaze the pate, adding a few bay leaves and
  kumquats to decorate if liked.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snippets of Venison
 Categories: Meat, Game, British
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    3/4 lb Best venison trimmings
      2 fl Cider
      4 fl Good stock
      6 oz Cap mushrooms
      1 bn Chives
           Garlic
           Juniper
           Unsalted butter
      4 fl Soured cream or Greek yogurt
 
  Cut the meat into strips about the size of your thumb - if possible.
  Some of the trimmings may, of course, be slightly ragged, triangular
  or cubed but this is the size and shape to aim for.  Dust with
  coarsely ground black pepper and 3 to 4 crushed juniper berries,
  moisten with the cider, cover and leave to marinate for 24 hours.
  Crush a garlic clove, mix it with the soured cream or yoghurt and
  leave it to infuse in a cool place for 24 hours.
  
  Carefully drain and dry the venison, reserving the marinade.  Slice
  the mushrooms thickly and saute them in a little very hot butter.
  Remove and keep hot.  Then saute the venison briefly, searing it
  nicely but keeping it succulent and pink within - 2 minutes is
  plenty.  Then let the venison rest in a low oven where it will go on
  cooking a little without toughening. Start making the sauce straight
  away or wait for several minutes if you want the meat to lose its
  pinkness.
  
  To make the sauce, let the marinade liquid and the stock bubble away
  in the frying pan until reduced to just 2 or 3 spoonfuls.  Blend in
  any juices that the venison has exuded and bubble again briefly.
  Then beat in the garlic-flavoured soured cream, away from the heat.
  Return the pan to a low flame to warm the sauce.  Season well,
  scatter with chopped chives and serve on very hot plates.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentils with Lovage
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Shallots; chopped
           Butter
     12 oz Whole green lentils (Le Puy)
           Handful of chopped lovage
      1    Sprig of thyme
      1    Curl of orange peel
           Light stock or water
 
  Soften the chopped shallots in a little butter without colouring
  them. Stir in the lentils.  Add a handful of chopped lovage, the
  sprig of thyme, orange peel and stock or unsalted water to cover
  well.  Simmer until tender.  Drain off and reduce the cooking liquor
  to make a little sauce, enriching it with more butter and seasoning
  to taste.  In the absence of lovage, use the young leaves and
  tenderest parts of a celery heart, and season the dish with a pinch
  each of celery salt, lemon zest and powdered curry spices.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Pancakes with Juniper
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, British
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes
           Salt & pepper
      1    Orange (grated zest only)
      6    Juniper berries (or more)
           Butter or oil
 
  Peel and grate the potatoes. Season with salt, pepper, the finely
  grated orange zest and the pulverized juniper berries. Divide into
  six flattened heaps and fry in batches in a mixture of butter and oil
  until golden-brown and crisp on both sides. Drain on crumpled kitchen
  paper and keep the pancakes hot (uncovered) in a low oven while you
  cook the rest. Source:
  
  Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Gratin
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Jerusalem artichokes
           -- thinly sliced
           -- (prepared weight given)
           Salt
           Pepper
           Crushed garlic
      7 fl Stock
           Butter
           Cream; hot
           Parsley; chopped
 
  Put the sliced artichokes into a well-buttered gratin dish or shallow
  flameproof casserole, seasoning with the salt, pepper, and the merest
  hint of crushed garlic between layers.  Press down firmly, pour on
  the stock and dot with butter.  Cook in a moderate oven or over a
  gentle flame until the vegetables are tender but not disintegrated
  and most of the liquid has been absorbed.  Drizzle on some hot cream
  and let it slither down between layers.  Warm through briefly and
  serve sprinkled with parsley.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puree of Leeks
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, British
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Leeks; very thinly sliced
           Butter
 
  Drop the thinly sliced leeks (tender green parts as well as white)
  into 1/2-inch fast-boiling salted water.  Cook until very tender.
  Save the cooking liquor.  Whizz the leeks to a smooth, pale green
  puree.  Season, enrich with knobs of butter and thin with a little of
  the cooking liquor if liked.  Serve garnished with a bouquet of green
  coriander and triangles of fried bread.  Add some soft-boiled eggs
  for a quick vegetarian supper.
  
  Source: Philippa Davenport in "Country Living" (British), November
  1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-Pickled Cauliflower (Cavolfiore in Agrodolce)
 Categories: Relish, Vegetable, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Cauliflower
           - about 2 lbs., trimmed wt.
      2 oz Salt
      1 pt Water
      8 oz Onions
      1 lb Sugar
      1 pt Wine vinegar
      1 tb Mustard seed
      2    Short pieces cinnamon bark
    1/2 ts Cloves
    1/2 ts Allspice
      3    Little dried red peppers
 
  Trim the cauliflower and divide it into florets.  Blanch the florets
  in boiling salted water for 5 minutes.  Drain them and run cold water
  through them immediately.  Slice the onions and layer them with
  cauliflower into sterilized jars.  Heat the vinegar with the sugar
  and spices, and pour the boiling mixture into the jars.  The florets
  should be submerged.  Cover and seal while hot.  Ready to eat in a
  week, the pickle will keep in a cool place all year.  Makes
  approximately 3 lb. pickle.
  
  Suggestions: Make an oeuf en cocette, very lightly cooked with a
  teaspoon of cream and serve it on a plate along with pickled
  cauliflower, sticks of cucumber, spring onions, and matchsticks of
  celery to dip into it.
  
  Toss a few cauliflower florets with a haricot bean salad dressed with
  olive oil, some of the pickling liquor, chopped garlic and parsley.
  
  Serve them as part of an antipasto with olives and slices of salad.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), 1988. Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot and Walnut Chutney
 Categories: Relish, Fruit, British
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Apricots; -OR-
      1 lb -Dried apricots
      1 lb Onions; peeled, chopped fine
  1 1/2 pt Cider vinegar
      2    Garlic cloves
           -- peeled, crushed
      2    Oranges (rind only)
      1 lb Light brown sugar
      8 oz Sultanas
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts English mustard
    1/2 ts Powdered allspice
      8 oz Walnuts
           -- very roughtly chopped
 
  Split and stone the fresh apricots and chop roughly.  If using dried
  apricots, put them to swell overnight in water.  Boil the chopped
  onions for a few moments to soften them, otherwise you always seem to
  get a few hard bits.  Drain.  Put all the ingredients except the
  walnuts into a large preserving pan and bring to the boil.  Turn down
  the heat and cook gently, stirring regularly, for 1 1/2 hours until
  the mixture is thick and jammy. Stir in the walnuts.  Pot while hot
  in warm sterilised jars. Seal. Makes about 6 lbs.
  
  Source: Elisabeth Luard in "Country Living" (British), November 1988.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai -- General Notes
 Categories: Thai, Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Information:
 
  Rice Noodles: ============= You can use fresh or dried, in widths
  from 1/8 to 1/2 inch wide.  I've never tried fresh. The dried ones
  have to be soaked in water to soften them. The recipes call for
  soaking in cold water, lukewarm water, hot water, and boiling water
  for anywhere from 7 minutes to 2 hours.  I put mine into warm tap
  water and let them soak while I'm preparing everything else. Just
  before I start cooking, I dump them into a colander to drain.  One
  recipe suggests cellophane noodles as an alternative to rice noodles
  -- I've never tried that variation.
  
  Meat or No Meat: ================ The most common meat called for is
  shrimp, with chicken and/or pork use in addition to or in place of the
  shrimp.  Some recipes add bean curd; some substitute it for the meat.
  Jeff Smith's recipe uses deep fried bean curd. My own variation is to
  substitute various veggies (asparagus, red bell pepper, broccoli,
  snow peas, or whatever else looks good.) As Nancie McDermott says,
  "Thai cooks blithely tinker with the classic formula to create
  signature variations, and you can, too."
  
  Oil and Seasonings: =================== Cooking pad thai starts with
  vegetable or peanut oil.  Most versions add garlic, and sometimes
  shallots, shrimp paste (be prepared for the smell!), onions, fresh
  red chilies, and/or preserved sweet white radish.
  
  The Sauce: ========== What makes pad thai, in addition to the rice
  noodles, is the sauce.  The general mix of flavors is sweet, salty,
  sour, and hot. Typical ingredients are:
  
  ~~ fish sauce (sometimes soy sauce is used in addition, or in place
  of for pure vegetarian versions) ~~ sugar (sometimes palm sugar is
  suggested) ~~ vinegar (various kinds specified; tamarind sauce or
  lime juice are sometimes used instead) ~~ "red stuff" -- may be
  paprika, tomato paste, catsup, chili powder, hot chili sauce, chili
  paste with garlic, tomato sauce, or cayenne pepper, depending on the
  recipe. ~~ Other possible additions: salt, black pepper, chicken
  stock, dried shrimp powder. One recipe calls for boiling the sauce
  before using.
  
  Eggs: ===== Anywhere from 0-6. Some recipes call for beating the eggs
  before adding; others suggested breaking the yolk after adding the
  egg to the pan. Various techniques are suggested for manipulating the
  egg while cooking.  One recipe calls for cooking the egg before
  starting the pad thai, cutting it into strips, and then adding the
  egg strips back at the end of cooking.  I haven't tried this myself
  but have had it in restaurants.
  
  Bean Sprouts and Scallions: ========================== These are
  usually added last in cooking, or added to the finished dish without
  cooking.
  
  Garnishes: ========= Various things can be added to finished dish as
  an edible garnish:
  
  ~~ lime or lemon wedges ~~ ground roasted chilies ~~ ground roasted
  peanuts ~~ dried red chili flakes ~~ fresh coriander leaves ~~
  cucumber slices ~~ dried shrimps ~~ fried basil leaves ~~ cherry
  tomatoes ~~ mint sprigs
  
  Experiment, and enjoy!
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant with Tofu
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Japanese eggplant
           - (about 3 cups sliced)
    1/4 lb Tofu
      6 tb Oil
      2    -to
      3    Garlic cloves; crushed
      1    -to
      5    Red chili peppers
           --  seeded and chopped
     10    -to
     15    Sweet basil leaves
      1 tb -to
      3 tb Yellow bean sauce
           - (SEE NOTE)
 
  NOTE: (yellow bean sauce from Thailand is saltier than sauce from
  Hong Kong or China, so season to taste)
  
  Slice unpeeled eggplant crosswise into slices 1/8-inch thick.  Cut
  tofu into 1/2-inch cubes.  Heat oil in skillet; add garlic and
  stir-fry until light brown (don't burn!).  Add eggplant and tofu and
  cook for 5 to 7 minutes.  Add remaining ingredients; mix gently.
  Serve immediately, since eggplant and basil turn dark if dish sits
  after cooking.  Makes 3 to 4 servings.
  
  Source: Keo's Thai Cuisine by Keo Sananikone From: arielle@taronga.com
  (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Evil Jungle Prince with Chicken (Or With Mixed Vegetables
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Main dish, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Boneless chicken breast
           -OR-
    1/2 lb -Mixed vegetables,
           - (see note below)
      2    -to
      6 sm Red chile peppers
    1/2    Stalk fresh lemon grass
      2    Kaffir lime leaves
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Coconut milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    -to
      4 tb Fish sauce,
           - based on personal taste
           - (omit for veggie version)
     10    -to
     15    Basil leaves
      1 c  Chopped cabbage
 
  Thinly cut chicken into 2-inch strips.  (If doing veggie version, cut
  vegetables into thin strips.) Grind together red chili peppers, lemon
  grass, and kaffir lime leaves in a food processor or pound in a
  mortar. Heat oil to medium-high and saute pepper mixture for 3
  minutes.  Stir in coconut milk and cook for 2 minutes.  Add chicken
  (or vegetables) and cook for 5 minutes or until cooked (same time for
  veggies).  Reduce heat to medium-low.  Stir in fish sauce (if using),
  salt, and basil.  Serve on a bed of chopped cabbage.
  
  Note: ===== For mixed vegetables, choose from among bell peppers,
  string beans, water chestnuts, tomatoes (small cherry tomatoes are
  best), bamboo shoots, miniature corn, asparagus, cucumbers, zucchini,
  Japanese eggplant, and mushrooms.  I particularly like string beans
  or asparagus, a few cherry tomatoes, shredded (rather than sliced)
  bamboo shoots, miniature corn, and some straw mushrooms or slender
  (Japanese) eggplant.
  
  (3-4 servings)
  
  Source: Keo's Thai Cuisine by Keo Sananikone, Ten Speed Press, 1986
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Galloping Horses (Thai Appetizer)
 Categories: Thai, Appetizer
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 ts Oil
      1 lb Ground pork
      4    -to
      8    Garlic cloves
           -- finely chopped
      3    Green onions, white part
           -- chopped
    3/4 c  Roasted salted peanuts
      1    Fresh pineapple; -OR-
      5    -Tangerines, -OR-
      4    -Oranges
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Lettuce leaves
           Mint or coriander leaves
           Chopped chilis
 
  Grind peanuts.  Heat oil in a frying pan, add pork, garlic and
  onions. Cook until pink color disappears.  Drain off most of the fat.
  Add sugar and pepper, cook 1-2 minutes.  Add peanuts, mix in well,
  then remove from heat. Cool to room temperature.
  
  Prepare platter, lining with lettuce leaves.  Peel and segment the
  citrus fruit if used, cutting each segment down to the back and
  fanning open to form a circle.  If using pineapple, cut off top
  leaves and outer skin, as thinly as possible, from top down.  Look at
  the "eye" pattern, as it forms a spiral down the pineapple.  Cut the
  spirals with a sharp knife held at about a 45 degree angle.  Cut off
  bottom.  Cut pineapple into about 5 or 6 wedges and then cut each of
  those into 1/4 inch slices. Arrange fruit on platter.
  
  Mound meat mixture onto fruit, and decorate with other garnishes.
  Serve at room temperature, or chilled.
  
  (servings:  8-10)
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Bean Curry (Aka Country Curry or Jungle Curry)
 Categories: Thai
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh green beans
      2 tb Thai Curry Paste
      2 tb Vegetable oil
           Bamboo shoots (optional)
      6 c  Chicken broth
 
  Clean and pick green bean tips.  In a dutch oven (or equivalent size
  vessel), heat oil.  Add curry paste and "fry" until fragrant, about 1
  minute.  Add broth, green beans, bamboo shoots (or other vegetable).
  Bring to a rapid boil and cook like that for about 15-20 minutes
  (watching that liquid doesn't reduce too much; add water as
  necessary). Reduce heat to a hard simmer and continue cooking until
  green beans are VERY done and have absorbed the flavor of the curry
  broth.  Serve in bowls over rice.
  
  NOTES: If necessary, you may substitute whole frozen green beans for
  fresh.
  
  Thai Curry Paste: "Country Curry" or "Red Curry"; but they are all
  flavorful. Mae Ploy and Tommy Tang are other good brands.
  
  Bamboo shoots: I like to use a large can of bamboo tips because they
  are tender and I can cut them into 1/4 inch thick round slices. You
  can also use a couple of the small cans of sliced bamboo shoots, but
  they will not absorb the flavor as well.  I think carrots cut into
  coins would also be good, if you like those. I tried potatoes once,
  but they just disintegrated.)
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot and Sour Shrimp Soup (Thai)
 Categories: Thai, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Medium shrimp
      2    Sticks fresh lemongrass; OR
      2 tb -Dried lemongrass
      4    Kaffir lime leaves
           - (fresh or dried) -OR-
      1 tb -Finely grated lemon zest
  1 1/2 qt Chicken stock
      1 tb Fish sauce or salt to taste
      3 tb Fresh lime juice or to taste
      1 ts Thai chili paste
           -(nam prik pow) OR see NOTE
     15 oz Canned straw mushrooms; -OR-
     12 md -Fresh mushrooms
      3    Fresh hot green chilies
      3 tb Cilantro
 
  NOTE: The following mixture may be substituted for 1 teaspoon Thai
  chili paste: 1/4 ts cayenne, 1/4 tsp sugar and 1/2 tsp oil
  
  Wash, peel, de-vein shrimp.  Save shells.  Wash shrimp again, drain,
  pat dry, cover and refrigerate.  If using fresh lemongrass, cut each
  stick into three 2 inch pieces--starting from rounded bottom end.
  Discard straw-like top.  Lightly crush the 6 pieces.
  
  In a pan, combine lemongrass, lime leaves, stock, and shrimp shells.
  Bring to boil.  Lower heat and simmer gently for 20 minutes.  Strain
  stock, then add fish sauce, lime juice, and chili paste.  Adjust fish
  sauce and lime juice to taste.  *Add more chili paste for more heat.
  
  Drain straw mushrooms and add to stock.  (If using fresh mushrooms,
  quarter them and drop in lightly salted boiling water.  Boil 1
  minute. Drain and add to stock.) **The soup can be prepared to this
  point several hours ahead of time and stored in the refrigerator.**
  
  Prepare garnish shortly before serving.  Cut green chilies into fine
  rounds.  Wash and dry cilantro.  Just before serving, heat the soup,
  when it begins to boil, drop in peeled shrimp.  Cook on medium heat
  for 2 minutes or just until shrimp turn opaque.  Garnish with chilies
  and cilantro leaves.  Serve hot.
  
  Source: Madhur Jaffrey's _Far Eastern Cookery_
  
  From: sehender@reed.edu (Sarah Henderson)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kwitiaow Pad Thai
 Categories: Thai, Seafood, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Peanut or corn oil
      1 oz Raw prawns, shelled
      4 oz Firm bean curd (tofu); diced
      3 tb Preserved sweet white radish
           -- chopped
      3 tb Sliced shallots
      4    Eggs
     11 oz Rice or cellophane noodles
           - (sen kel or woon sen),
           - soaked in cold water
           - for 7-10 minutes, if dried
    1/4 c  Chicken stock
      3 tb Dried shrimps, chopped
    1/3 c  Unsalted peanuts, chopped
      4    Spring onions; sliced
     15 oz Bean sprouts

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Tamarind juice
    1/3 c  Palm sugar
      1 tb White soya sauce
 
  Mix all the sauce ingredients together in a pan and boil until
  reduced to about 2/3 cup.  Set aside to cool.
  
  Heat the oil in a wok or pan until very hot, then add the prawns and
  bean curd and stir-fry lightly for 1 minute.  Add the preserved
  radish and shallot, fry for 1 minute, and break in the eggs.
  Stir-fry for a minute, then add the noodles and chicken stock.  When
  the noodles are soft (about 2 minutes), add the dried shrimps,
  peanuts, spring onions and bean sprouts. Add the sauce, fry for a
  couple of minutes and serve.
  
  Serve accompanied by chopped peanuts, chopped dry chillies, sugar,
  lime wedges, spring onions, and fresh bean sprouts, all in small
  containers.
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: My Pad Thai
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Seafood, Rice, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  3 1/2 tb Distilled white vinegar
      2 tb Water
  2 1/2 tb Fish sauce
      3 tb Tomato paste
  2 1/2 tb Sugar
    1/2 tb Dried shrimp
           -- pounded to a powder
      9 oz Flat rice sticks, 1/8" wide
           Vegetable oil
    1/3 c  Fresh sweet basil leaves
           - (Thai or purple basil)
      2    Red Serrano chili peppers
           -seeded & very finely minced
      4    Garlic cloves; minced
  1 1/2 lg Boned chicken breast halves
           - cut crosswise into
           - 3/8 inch thick strips -OR-
      1 lb -Lean pork, cut into thin
           -slices 3/8 inch by 2 inches
      8 oz Small, cooked shelled shrimp
      2    Eggs; lightly beaten
      2 c  Fresh bean sprouts
           - beans removed
    1/4 c  Roasted, unsalted peanuts
           - coarsely ground
           Cherry tomatoes; halved
           Lime wedges
           Mint sprigs
           -OR- sliced green onions
 
  Combine the vinegar, water, fish sauce, tomato paste, sugar, and dried
  shrimp in a small bowl; mix until well blended and reserve.  In a
  large pot, soak the noodles in enough water to cover.  In a small
  skillet or pot, heat vegetable oil 3/4 to 1 inch deep to 350 degrees,
  or until a dried rice noodle puffs instantly when dropped into the
  oil.  Deep-fry the basil leaves a few at a time, turning them once or
  twice until they are crisp, or 40 seconds to a minute; drain on paper
  toweling.
  
  Bring the noodles to a boil and cook them 2 minutes, or until they are
  almost tender.  Drain and rinse them well, then spread them on paper
  toweling to dry slightly.  Head a wok or large skillet and add about
  2 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil.  Fry the Serrano peppers about 30
  seconds, then add the garlic and stir-fry until it is soft.  Add the
  chicken or pork and stir-fry until the chicken is almost opaque
  throughout or the pork is browned.  Stir in the shrimp and the sauce
  and mix completely. Make a well in the center of the mixture and pour
  in the eggs. When they are almost set, scramble them evenly.  Add
  half the noodles, throughly incorporating them into the mixture; stir
  in the remaining noodles and half the bean sprouts.  Cook just until
  the bean sprouts are nearly wilted.
  
  Heap the meat and noodles onto a platter.  Cover one half of them with
  ground peanuts and the other half with uncooked bean sprouts.  Ring
  the noodles with lime wedges, cherry tomatoes, and mint sprigs and
  garnish the top with the fried basil.
  
  Source: Asian Pasta, by Linda Burum
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nue Gra Pao: Stir-Fried Beef with Mint
 Categories: Thai, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Flank steak
     14    Serrano chilies
           - finely chopped
    1/4 c  Finely chopped garlic
    1/2 c  Finely chopped yellow onion
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil; PLUS:
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Fish sauce
      1 tb Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Water (more if needed)
    1/2 c  Mint or basil leaves
           - (loosely packed)
           Green lettuce leaves
 
  This is a rich, hearty dish with plenty of typical Thai flavors.  Any
  kind of beef may be used, but flank steak works particularly well
  because it is easy to cut it across the grain, which helps keep the
  meat from falling apart during stir-frying and produces a tender
  result.  Be sure to serve plenty of rice, because it helps moderate
  the hot chilies without detracting from the flavor.  You may reduce
  the number of chilies by up to one half, but traditionally this dish
  should have a rich, hot chili flavor.
  
  ======================================================================
  
  1.  Slice the beef across the grain into strips 1/4 inch thick and 2
  to 3 inches long.  Set aside.
  
  2.  Pound or grind the chilies, garlic, and onion to a coarse paste
  in a mortar or blender.  If you use a blender you may need to add the
  oil to aid in grinding.
  
  3.  Heat a wok, add the oil, and swirl it over the surface of the
  pan. (Do not add more oil if you have ground the chilies, onion, and
  garlic in oil.) Add the paste from Step 2 and stir-fry until it is
  light golden.
  
  4.  Add the beef and stir-fry until it is a uniform tan color, but do
  not overcook it.
  
  5.  Add the fish sauce, sugar, water, and mint (or basil) leaves.
  More water may be added if the sauce is too dry.  There should be
  about 1/2 to 3/4 cup sauce, depending on how much water you added.
  
  Ahead of time note: The dish may be prepared a day in advance to this
  point.  To do so, proceed through Step 5, omitting the mint or basil
  leaves.  When you are ready to serve, heat the mixture and add the
  leaves. If the meat has absorbed the liquid, add just enough warm
  water to bring it back to the original consistency.
  
  6.  Arrange a single layer of lettuce leaves in a serving bowl and
  put the beef mixture over them.  Serve the beef immediately or keep
  it warm while preparing other dishes.
  
  7.  Serve with rice.
  
  (Serves 4 to 6)
  
  Source: Thai Home-Cooking from Kamolmal's Kitchen
  
  From: melcue@is.rice.edu (Melissa Elaine Cue)
  :     nell@is.rice.edu (Paula Gaynell Warnes)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nue Nam Tok: Grilled Beef with Thai Seasoning
 Categories: Thai, Meat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Serrano chilies
    1/4 c  White vinegar
  1 1/2 lb Flank steak
    1/4 lb Red onion; sliced
      4    Green onions
    1/4 c  Lime juice; PLUS:
      1 tb Lime juice
      2 tb Fish sauce
      1 ts Ground roasted chilies *
      2 tb Ground toasted rice **
           Red lettuce leaves
           Coriander sprigs
           Mint or Basil leaves
 
  1.  Remove the stems, but not the seedes, from the chilies.  Slice the
  chiles crosswise into pieces 1/8" thick.  Place the sliced chiles and
  vinegar in a small serving bowl.  Let it stand for at least 15
  minutes.
  
  2.  Grill the beef to the desired doneness, preferably over charcoal.
  Slice it across the grain into strips 1/8" thick and 1 to 2 inches
  long. Put these in a large ceramic bowl.
  
  3.  Peel the red onion, remove the root portion, and slice the onion
  vertically into thin strips.  Slice the green onion diagonally into
  thin pieces.  Add both types of onion to the beef.
  
  4.  Add the lime juice, fish sauce, ground chilies, and ground rice.
  Mix well
  
  5.  Arrange a single layer of lettuce leaves on a serving platter, and
  place th beef mixture on top.  Garnish with sprigs of coriander and
  mint or basil leaves.
  
  6.  Serve at room temperature, the vinegar sauce (from Step 1) and
  rice.
  
  *  Use small hot chilies about 3 to 4 inches long.  Roast whole
  chillie stems and all, in a dry wok or skillet until the color
  changes to dark red or brown depending on the chilies used.  Be
  careful not to let them burn. When the chilies have cooled, remove
  the stems and seeds.  Place the chilies in a food processor or
  blender and grind using short pulses. Pre-ground chilies are also
  commercially available, but often lack the "bite" of home ground ones
  and may be more expensive.
  
  ** Place uncooked rice in a dry wok or skillet and heat over moderate
  heat until deep golden brown,s tirring frequently to keep from
  burning and to allow it to develop a uniform color.  Watch the rice
  carefully after it begins to change colorand stir constantly because
  it can burn easily at this stage.  When it is auniform deep golden
  color, remove from heat and allow to cool to room temperature.  Grind
  it to a fine powder in a blender or a spice grinder.  This can be
  made in advance and kept in quantity so that there is always a supply
  on hand, but it is also easy to make up while preparing the dish.
  
  Source:  "Thai Home-Cooking from Kamolmal's Kitchen",
  :        by William Crawford and Kamolmal Pootaraksa.
  :        ISBN 0-453-00494-6.
  
  From: nell@is.rice.edu (Paula Gaynell Warnes)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai
 Categories: Thai, Meat, Poultry, Seafood, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Dried rice noodles 1/8" wide
           -Warm Water
    1/2 lb Shrimp, chicken or pork
           -OR- a combination
    1/4 c  Fish sauce
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar; plus:
      2 tb Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  White vinegar; plus:
      2 tb White vinegar
      1 ts Paprika
      4    Green onions
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
           - (more if needed)
      1 ts Chopped garlic
      2    Eggs
    3/4 lb Bean sprouts
           Ground roasted chiles
           - (see note at end)
           Unsalted roasted peanuts
           - ground
           Lime wedges
 
  1.  Soak noodles for 20-25 minutes in enough warm water to cover
  them. They should be flexible and soft, but not so soft that they can
  be mashed easily with the fingers.  Later cooking in liquid will
  soften them more. Drain them throughly in a colander while preparing
  the other ingredients. Traditionally they are left in full-length
  strands, but you may cut them into 8 inch lengths if you find it
  easier to stir-fry then that way.
  
  2.  Peel and devein the shrimp leaving the tails intact(or remove if
  preferred) Slice chicken, pork into 1/8 inch strips 1-2 inches long.
  
  3.  Mix the fish sauce, sugar, vinegar, and paprika in a bowl and stir
  until the sugar dissolves.  Set aside.  Slice green onions both the
  green and white parts, diagonally into 1-1/2 inch long pieces.  Set
  aside.
  
  4.  Heat a wok, add the oil and swirl over the surface.  Add the
  garlic and stir fry until light golden.  Add the meat and stir-fry
  until shrimp is pink.  If using chicken or pork stir-fry until pink
  disappears.  Add the noodles and toss lightly to coat with oil and
  the distribute meat and garlic( I often do this in a larger pot since
  things tend to come out of the wok).
  
  5.  Add the liquid from step 3 and bring it to a boil rapidly, gently
  folding the noodles without breaking them.  Reduce heat to medium and
  boil the mixture, folding frequently until the noodles have absorbed
  the liquid (I find a pasta server works great for this step).
  
  6.  Lift the noodles gently from one side of the wok.  Pour a little
  oil along the side of the wok, then break the egg ad slip it into the
  oil. Break the yolk and cover the egg with the noodles immediately.
  Repeat this on the opposite side with the other egg.  Allow eggs to
  cook undisturbed, over moderate heat until they are set and almost
  dry. Additional oil may by added if the eggs or the noodles begin to
  stick to the wok.
  
  7.  When the eggs are set and almost dry, fold them gently but
  rapidly into the noodles.  Try not to break the noodles, which will
  be soft and fragile at this point.  An effective way is to insert the
  scoop under the eggs, lift it through, and fold the mixtureover.
  Continue the lifting and folding motion until the eggs are broken up
  and well distributed.
  
  8.  Add the green onions (and bean sprouts if you prefer them mixed
  in) and toss the entire mixture quickly and gently, stll avoiding
  breaking the noodles.  Cook for about 2 minutes or until onions are
  tender.
  
  9.  Take a large platter spread with bean sprouts(if you left them out
  above).  Spread Pud Thai from wok over top.  Sprinkle ground
  chilies(see note) and ground peanuts over the top and squeeze lime
  over the top.  Or serve toppings seperatly for each diner to add
  according to taste.
  
  Note on chilies: Buy whole dried chiles and grind since pre-ground
  often lack the "bite" of whole ones.  Thai chilies may be used
  (_VERY_ hot), or milder American chiles may be used.  The Thai
  chilies are know as Prig hang.  They may also be found in Mexican
  food sections under the name "Chiles Arbol".  Use sparing if you
  aren't used to them they are quite potent.
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai (1)
 Categories: Thai, Seafood, Poultry, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Thai flat rice noodles
           - (bahn pho), OR rice sticks
           Oil; for deep-frying
    1/2 lb Fresh firm bean curd
           - cut into tiny cubes
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
    1/2 tb Garlic, chopped
    1/2 c  Chicken breast meat
           -- (very thinly sliced)
    1/4 lb Shrimp, peeled
           - cut in half the long way
      2    Eggs; beaten
      1 tb Dried shrimp powder
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      3 tb Finely chopped peanuts
           - (dry-roasted salted type)
      2 tb Lime juice, freshly squeezed
      1 tb Sugar
      6 tb Thai fish sauce
    1/4 c  Tamarind sauce
      2 ts Red chili paste with garlic
      2 c  Fresh bean sprouts
      2    Limes; quartered
    1/3 c  Fresh coriander leaves
      3    Chopped scallions
      4 tb Finely chopped peanuts
           - (dry-roasted type)
 
  Soak the noodles in ample warm water until supple, about 15 minutes,
  drain and set aside.  Place the noodles in boiling water and cook
  just until the water returns to the boil.  Drain again.
  
  Heat the oil for deep-frying to 375 degrees and deep-fry the cut bean
  curd. Be sure the pat the bean curd dry on a paper towel first so
  that it will not spatter fat on you.  Drain the bean curd and set
  aside.
  
  Heat a large wok and add the peanut oil, garlic, and chicken.  Chow
  for a few minues and then add the shrimp, drained noodles, beaten
  eggs, and deep-fried bean curd.  Toss well and chow for 3 to 4
  minutes over medium-high heat.  Add the remaining ingredients, except
  the garnishes, and chow or stir for a few more minutes until the
  noodles are hot and tender.
  
  Place on a serving platter with the garnishes, which are an integral
  part of the dish.
  
  Source: Frugal Gourmet on Our Immigrant Ancestors
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai (2)
 Categories: Thai, Pork
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/3 lb Flat rice stick noodles
           - (banh pho), 1/4 " wide
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
    1/4 lb Pork
           - cut into matchstick strips
      6    Shrimps, peeled and deveined
      1 ts Crushed garlic
      1    Egg
      2 tb Water
      2 tb Rice vinegar
      1 tb Fish sauce
      1 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Chopped toasted peanuts
    1/4 ts Ground dry shrimp
           Freshly ground white pepper
    1/4 ts Asian chili powder
           - (to taste)
      1 c  Bean sprouts
           - washed & drained
    1/4 c  Scallions, cut 3/4" long
           Fresh coriander
           Wedges of fresh lime
 
  Soak noodles in warm water for 60 minutes.  Drain and set aside.
  
  Prepare all other ingredients and arrange near the wok.  You will
  need to work fast.
  
  In the wok, fry the pork in the peanut oil at medium heat.  When half
  cooked, add the shrimps and garlic and stir.  Cook until shrimp and
  pork are done.
  
  Beat the egg and add it to the mixture.  Cook, stirring, for about
  half a minute.
  
  Turn the heat to high.  Add the drained noodles to shrimp mixture.
  Add water, vinegar, fish sauce, sugar, shrimp powder, and most of the
  peanuts. Sprinkle in white pepper and chili powder.  Toss to combine.
  Let it cook on one side (Don't stir; keep checking the underside as
  if it were a big pancake).  Flip it over as best you can and repeat
  until nearly cooked, about 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  Add most of the sprouts and scallions.  Stir and cook for another
  minute.
  
  Turn onto a plate.  Top with the rest of the sprouts, scallions, and
  peanuts.  Garnish with coriander and serve with a wedge of fresh
  lemon.
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai (3)
 Categories: Thai, Pork, Beef, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 oz Chantaboon rice sticks
           - medium thread (See note)
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      6    Eggs; beaten
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      8    Garlic gloves
      1 lb Pork, beef or chicken
           - sliced thin, bite sized,
           -OR-
           Shrimp, shelled and deveined
    1/4 c  White vinegar
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Sliced salted radish
           -- (chai Po)
    1/4 c  Fish sauce (nam pla)
      1 c  Ground roasted peanuts
           -- (coarsely ground)
      2 tb Chile powder or paprika
      2 c  Bean sprouts
      1 c  Sliced green onion
      1 c  Sliced cilantro
      1    Lime
 
  Ingredient Notes: ================= Re: Chantaboon rice sticks: <I
  think the spelling of "chantaboon" can also be found as "jantaboon"
  or something like that.>
  
  Re: Pork, Beef, or Chicken, or Shrimp: <I used tofu when I made this.
  If you do the the same, press the tofu between three sheets of towel
  paper on the top and the bottom. Put a plate on top and a two pound
  weight on top of the plate. Wait 20 minutes>
  
  Re: Sliced salted radish: <These are packaged in a plastic see
  through flat container and slightly orange in color>
  
  ======================================================================
  ==
  
  Soak rice sticks in lukewarm water for 1 hour, drain and set aside.
  Set wok over high heat, for 1 minute.  Heat wok with 1 tablespoon of
  oil until sizzling hot and coat sides of wok evenly.  Add eggs and
  fry, until eggs set, turn over and fry, until light brown on both
  sides. Remove from wok and slice thin, bite size.  Set aside.
  
  Heat 1/4 cup of oil in wok until sizzling hot.  Add garlic and cook
  until fragrant.  add meat, stir and cook, until meat or tofu is done,
  about 1 to 2 minutes.  Add rice sticks and vinegar, cook until rice
  sticks soften. Add eggs, and the next 5 ingredients, stir to blend.
  Remove to serving plate. Serve bean sprouts cold on the side.
  Garnish with green onion and cilantro.
  
  Serve with slices of fresh lime.  Squeeze lime on pad thai.
  
  Serves 10 as a side dish.  Serves 6 as an only dish.
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai Pseudo-Vegetarian Style
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Thai fish sauce
    1/4 c  White vinegar; plus:
      2 tb White vinegar
      4 tb Sugar (less if desired)
      1 ts Paprika
      8 oz Thai rice noodles
           -- (about 1/4" thick)
      8 oz Tofu
      2 tb Dried shrimp (optional)
      3 tb Oil
      2    Garlic cloves (or more)
      2    Eggs
    3/4 lb Bean sprouts
      3    Green onions
           - sliced on the diagonal,
           - including white part
    3/4 c  Ground peanuts
      1 tb Roasted red chili peppers *
 
  * [Take some dried red chili peppers and cook them in an ungreased
  wok over low stirring constantly until they start to brown. Grind in
  a coffee grinder or spice mill.]
  
  Instructions: ============= Combine first four ingredients and let sit
  until sugar dissolves.  Soak rice noodles/sticks in warm water until
  they are soft but don't disintegrate when pressed, about 40 minutes.
  Drain. Drain tofu by wrapping it in a clean towel and pressing with a
  large can of tomatoes, about 30 minutes. Cut into 1/4 inch cubes.
  Rinse dried shrimp in water and drain.
  
  Put oil in wok, heat to medium, put in crushed garlic.  Swirl around
  for about a minute.  Add noodles and mix around for a minute or two.
  
  Add the tofu and shrimp then immediately add the liquid.  Keep
  stirring until the liquid has all been absorbed into the noodles,
  about a couple of minutes.
  
  Lower heat to low or medium-low.  Push some of the stuff aside at one
  end of wok, and break an egg in.  Immediately cover with noodles.  Do
  the same at the other end of wok.  Let the eggs cook *undisturbed*
  until the yolks are practically cooked, about three minutes.
  (*Carefully* peak if unsure.) Slip a slotted spoon under each egg in
  turn, and bring upward, through the noodles, shaking as you go.  The
  idea is to break up the cooked egg into the rest of the mixture into
  tiny bits.
  
  Mix in sprouts and green onions.  Let cook for another two minutes.
  Turn off heat.  Add crushed peanuts and enough roasted red chilies to
  your desired hotness.
  
  From: jkandell@ccit.arizona.edu (Jonathan Kandell)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai (Sauteed Rice Noodles)
 Categories: Thai, Seafood, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     16 oz Rice noodles
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      5    Garlic cloves (or more)
           -- finely chopped
      1 lb Medium shrimp
           -- shelled and deveined
      2    Firm-style bean curd squares
           -- cut into 1/2 inch cubes
    1/4 c  Pickled turnips
           -- (coarsely chopped)
    1/2 c  White vinegar
   3/16 c  Fish sauce
      1 tb Paprika
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs; beaten
    1/4 lb Mung bean sprouts
      3    Scallions
           -- cut into 1/2 inch pieces
    1/2 c  Ground unsalted peanuts
      1    Fresh red chili pepper
           -- seeded & coarsely chopped
      1    Lemon; cut into wedges
           Coriander leaves for garnish
    1/4 c  Crushed red pepper (opt.)
 
  In a large bowl, soak the rice noodles in 10 to 12 cups of cold water
  for 2 hours.  Drain and cover with a damp towel to retain moisture.
  
  In a wok or large frying pan, heat the oil and stir-fry the garlic
  until it is light brown.  Add the shrimp, bean curd and pickled
  turnips; stir in the vinegar, fish sauce, paprika and sugar.  When
  thoroughly mixed, fold in the noodles.  When the noodles are
  completely coated, spread them out to the sides of the wok or frying
  pan, leaving a space in the middle. Add the beaten eggs.  As the eggs
  cook, fold the noodles over them and stir to combine all of the
  ingredients evenly.  Stir in half of the bean sprouts, then add the
  scallions, ground peanuts and chopped chili pepper. Toss several
  times to mix well.
  
  Serve on a large platter with lemon wedges.  Top with the remaining
  bean sprouts and garnish with coriander leaves.  Serve the crushed
  red pepper on the side, for those who like it extra-spicy.
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pad Thai with Shrimp
 Categories: Thai, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Small size rice noodles
      3 tb Tomato sauce
           -OR- tamarind paste
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Pickled radish
      3 tb Sugar
    1/3 c  Water or chicken stock
      1    Egg
      3 tb Fish sauce
    1/2 lb Shrimp, cleaned and shelled
      1    Handful bean sprouts (fresh)
           -- chopped once or twice
      2 oz Green onions
           -- cut into 1/2 inch pieces
      2 tb Finely chopped peanuts
 
  1.  Soak the rice noodles in cold tap water about 20 minutes, until
  they are "springy".  Then drain in a colander until needed.
  
  2.  If using dried tamarind, soak the tamarind in hot water for
  awhile, then mash with a fork to soften.  Force as much of the
  mixture as you can through a seive to remove bits of bark, etc.
  
  3.  Heat oil in wok, and add the tamarind/tomato sauce, picked
  radish, and sugar.  Mix well and let heat up.
  
  4.  Add the noodles, small portions at a time, and and that
  water/stock. Mix well until all the noodles are coated with the
  mixture.  Add more liquid if necessary -- it will cook out.  Don't be
  easy on the noodles ~- chop them with the spatula or spoon some to
  separate them.  It may help to "toss" the noodles like a salad, to
  get them coated.
  
  5.  Beat the egg and mix with the noodles.  Add the fish sauce and
  shrimp. Mix everything thoroughly.  The noodles will tend to "clump",
  so stir or "toss" like a salad to get everything mixed, and to ensure
  that the egg and shrimp cook thoroughly.  It will help to cover the
  wok with a lid for a minute or so, then toss the mixture, then cover
  again. You'll know it's done when the shrimp are completely pink.
  There may be a little browning of the noodles; stirring will keep
  them from burning.
  
  6.  Add the bean sprouts, green onions, and chopped peanuts.  Mix
  well, then turn off the heat and let stand a minute or so.  Serve.
  
  From: danielh@sequent.com (Daniel Hobbs)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paht Thai
 Categories: Thai, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 lb Dried rice stick noodles
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Coarsely chopped garlic
      8    Shrimps, peeled and deveined
      1    Egg; lightly beaten
      1 tb Fish sauce
      2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Coarsely chopped peanuts
           -- (dry-roasted type)
      1 c  Bean sprouts
      4    Slender green onions
           -- sliced in 1 inch lengths
      1    Lime; quartered lengthwise
 
  Paht Thai is a noodle dish almost everyone seems to like.  A tangle of
  slender rice noodles is sauteed with garlic, shallots, and an
  orchestra of sweet, sour, and salty ingredients that play a piquant
  symphony of Thai flavors.  A handful of fresh bean sprouts provides a
  cooling contrast to the hot, seasoned noodles, and circles of lime
  invite you to bring sourness to center stage as you begin to eat.
  
  Traditional ingredients are salty dried shrimp; crispy pieces of
  fried, pressed bean curd; sweet-sour nuggets of pickled white radish;
  chopped peanuts; flat, green garlic chives; and a balanced chorus --
  sweet, sour, salty, hot -- of palm sugar, tamarind, vinegar, lime,
  brown bean sauce, and crushed dried red chilies.
  
  Thai cooks blithely tinker with the classic formula to create
  signature versions, and you can, too.  Siriluk Williams, owner of
  Sukothai Restaurant in Ft.  Lauderdale, Florida, gave me her recipe
  for home-style paht Thai. I love its accessible ingredients, simple
  steps, and delicious results.
  
  Instructions: ============= Soak rice noodles in warm water to cover
  for 15 to 20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare all the remaining
  ingredients and place them next to the stove, along with a small
  serving platter. When the noodles are very limp and white, drain and
  measure out 2 1/2 cups. Set these by the stove as well.
  
  Heat a wok or large, deep skillet over medium-high heat.  Add 1
  tablespoon of the oil and swirl to coat the surface.  When the oil is
  very hot, drop a piece of the garlic into the pan.  If it sizzles
  immediately, the oil is ready.  Add the garlic and toss until golden,
  about 30 seconds. Add the shrimp and toss until they turn pink and
  are opaque, no more than 1 minute. Remove from the pan and set aside.
  
  Add the egg to the pan and tilt the pan to spread it into a thin
  sheet. As soon as it begins to set and is opaque, scramble it to
  break it into small lumps.  Remove from the pan and set aside with
  the shrimp.
  
  Add the remaining 1 tablespoon oil, heat for 30 seconds, and add the
  softened noodles.  Using a spatula, spread and pull the noodles into
  a thin layer covering the surface of the pan.  Then scrape them into
  a clump again and gently turn them over.  Hook loops of noodles with
  the edge of the spatula and pull them up the sides, spreading them
  out into a layer again. Repeat this process several times as the
  stiff, white noodles soften and curl into ivory ringlets.  Add the
  fish sauce and turn the noodles so they are evenly seasoned.  Add the
  sugar and peanuts, turning the noodles a few more times.
  
  Reserving a small handful for garnish, add the bean sprouts, along
  with the green onions and shrimp-egg mixture.  Cook for 1 minute,
  turning often. Transfer the noodles to the serving platter and
  squeeze the juice of 2 lime wedges over the top.  Garnish with
  remaining bean sprouts and lime wedges and serve at once.
  
  Serves 1 as a main course, 2 as an appetizer.
  
  Source: Real Thai, by Nancie McDermott; Chronicle Books; ISBN
  0-8118-0017-2
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanut Sauce
 Categories: Thai, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Vegetable oil
           -- for deep-frying
      4 oz Whole shelled peanuts
      1 sl Terasi*
      2    Shallots; peeled and chopped
      1    Garlic clove
           -- peeled and chopped
           Salt
    1/2 ts Chilli powder
           -OR- sambal ulek*
    1/2 ts Brown sugar
     14 fl Water
      1 oz Creamed coconut* (optional)
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Method: ======= To make the sauce: Heat the oil in a wok or deep
  frying pan (deep-fat fryer) and fry the peanuts for 5 to 6 minutes.
  Drain thoroughly on kitchen paper towels. Allow to cool, then work to
  a fine powder in an electric grinder, or with a pestle and mortar.
  
  Put the terasi, shallots and garlic, if using, in a cobek or mortar.
  Pound to a very smooth paste, then add a little salt.  Heat 1
  tablespoon vegetable oil in a pan, add the paste and fry for 1
  minute, stirring constantly.  Add the chili powder or sambal ulek,
  sugar and water, bring to the boil, then add the ground peanuts.
  Stir well, then simmer until thick, stirring occasionally.  Add the
  creamed coconut (santen) if using, and stir until dissolved.  Keep
  hot.
  
  Note: ===== This really isn't as time-consuming as it sounds,
  providing you use roasted peanuts (avoiding the deep-frying step),
  and get your terasi, sambal ulek and coconut milk from the nearest
  Asian market.  I must have had a lot of time on my hands the first
  time I made this, as I decided to eschew the grinder and use a mortar
  and pestle.
  
  = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = =
  =
  
  This is from _The Encyclopedia of Asian Cooking_, general ed.  Jeni
  Wright, published in the USA 1984 by Exeter Books.
  
  *terasi [Malaysia] Also known as balachan/blacan (Malaysia), kapi
  (Thailand) and ngapi (Burma).  A kind of pungent shrimp paste, used
  in very small quantities.  Depending on the recipe in which it is
  used, it can be crushed with spices to make a paste which is then
  sauteed in oil. Alternatively, it may be grilled (broiled) or fried
  first, then added to other ingredients.
  
  *sambal ulek [Indonesia]  Used as an accompaniment and in cooking.
  Made by crushing fresh red chillis with a little salt: Remove the
  seeds from the chillis, chop finely, then crush with salt using a
  pestle and mortar. Three chillis will make about 1 tablespoon sambal
  ulek. also available redy-prepared in small jars from Oriental stores
  and some delicatessens.
  
  *santen [Malaysia] see coconut milk.
  
  Coconut milk [India/Malaysia/Thailand/Vietnam]  Known as narial ka
  dooth in India, santen in Indonesia and Malaysia.  Best made from
  fresh coconuts: Grate the flesh of 1 coconut into a bowl, pour on 600
  ml/1 pint/2-1/2 cups boiling water, then leave to stand for about 30
  minutes. Squeeze the flesh, then strain before using. This quantitiy
  will make a thick coconut milk, add more or less water as required.
  Desiccated (shredded) coconut can be used instead of fresh coconut:
  Use 350g/12 oz./4 cups to 600 ml/1 pint/2-1/2 cups boiling water. Use
  freshly made coconut milk within 24 hours. Canned coconut milk is
  also available.
  
  From: twain@carson.u.washington.edu (Barbara Hlavin)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red or Green Thai Curry
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Chicken, Curries
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Red or green curry paste
           -(use more for hotter curry)
           -Mae Ploy brand is excellent
      3 tb Vegetable oil
    3/4 lb Boneless chicken meat
           -- cut into 3/4-inch pieces
      2 cn (unsweetened) coconut milk
           -- (approx. 1-1/2 c each)
      1 c  Water or chicken broth
    1/2 c  Baby corns
    1/2 c  Straw mushrooms
           -OR- other mushroom
    1/2 c  Sliced bamboo shoots
      5    Kaffir lime leaves *
    1/2 ts Salt (more or less to taste)

MMMMM----------------------FOR GREEN CURRY---------------------------
     10    Fresh basil leaves

MMMMM-----------------------FOR RED CURRY----------------------------
    1/2    Red bell pepper; cut into
           -- matchstick-size strips
 
  Note: ===== * (dried kaffir lime leaves are fine; these are available
  in packages on the bottom -- usually dusty -- shelf of the Asian
  market; they look like dried, curled-up leaves)
  
  You can add other things (holy basil, fish sauce, chopped hot Thai
  chiles, lemon grass, galanga, shrimp paste, etc.).
  
  Instructions: ============= Fry curry paste in oil in saucepan until
  fragrant.  Add chicken (if using) and saute for about 1 minute over
  medium high heat.  Add remaining ingredients except basil leaves or
  red bell pepper.  Bring just barely to a boil; reduce heat and simmer
  20-30 minutes. Just before serving, stir in basil leaves or red bell
  pepper. Serve with cooked Thai Jasmine rice.
  
  From: riacmt@ubvms (Carol Miller-Tutzauer)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Special Thai Chicken with Chillies (Mild)
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Seafood, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      4    Fresh Red Chillies
           -- seeded and sliced
      3    Garlic cloves; sliced
    500 g  Chicken breast; sliced
      1    Onion; sliced
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Fish sauce *
      1 tb Tamarind sauce
      2 ts Brown sugar
           -- (or jaggary if available)
    1/2 c  Straw mushrooms
           -- (or tinned mushrooms
           -- if desperate)
    1/2 c  Bamboo shoots (strips)
    1/2    Lime; juiced
      6 bn Coriander (fresh)
 
  *NOTE: (Fish sauce is available from Asain food shops.  Alternatively
  substitute twice this amount soy sauce.)
  
  Instructions: ============= Heat oil in wok, add chillies and garlic
  and fry until crisp and golden. Drain onto paper towels (but leave
  oil in the wok).  Fry chicken and onion in oil until chicken is
  cooked. Add lime juice and vegetables. Fry for about 2 minutes. Add
  sauce.
  
  From: neiger@vaxc.cc.monash.edu.au (David Neiger)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Noodles
 Categories: Thai, Pork, Seafood, Stir fry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 oz Flat rice stick noodles
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      4    Garlic cloves; crushed
      1    Yellow onion; chopped
  1 1/2 lb Pork loin
           -- cut into julienne strips
    1/2 c  Dried shrimp; soaked in:
    1/2 c  -Warm water (for 5 minutes)
      2    Fresh red chilies
           -- cut into julienne strips
      1 ts White sugar
    1/8 c  Fish sauce
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Lime juice
      3 tb Ketchup
      1 ts Ground black pepper
      1 lb Fresh bean sprouts
           -- washed, drained
      4 tb Green onion, chopped
      4 tb Fresh coriander, chopped
      4 tb Roasted peanuts, crushed
 
  In a pot of boiling water, drop in the flat rice stick noodles for
  about 1 minute, stirring constantly to prevent noodles from sticking
  together. Remove from heat and drain in a colander.  Rinse with cold
  water.  Set aside.  Heat the oil in a large wok and stir-fry the
  garlic and onion until golden brown.  Add the pork, shrimp in water,
  and chilies. Stir-fry for 5 minutes and add the sugar, fish sauce,
  salt, lime juice, ketchup, black pepper, noodles, and bean sprouts.
  Stir well for 2 minutes. Transfer to a large serving platter and
  garnish with green onion, fresh coriander, and peanuts.
  
  (Serves 6-8)
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Rice Noodles
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Seafood, Chicken, Stir fry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz (1/8 inch wide) rice noodles
      1    Whole chicken breast
           -- boned, skinned
      8 md Shrimp, shelled, deveined
    1/2 c  -Water
    1/4 c  Fish sauce
      3 tb Sugar
      1 tb Lime juice
      1 ts Paprika
    1/8 ts Red (cayenne) pepper
    1/2 lb Bean sprouts
      3    Green onions
           -- white part only,
           -- cut into 1 inch shreds
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      4 lg Garlic cloves
           -- finely chopped
      1    Egg
      4 tb Crushed roasted peanuts
           -- (finely crushed)
 
  Place rice noodles in a large bowl.  Cover with water; soak 45
  minutes. Cut chicken into 1 1/2" by 1/3" strips.  Cut shrimp in half
  lengthwise; set aside.  Combine water, fish sauce, sugar, lime juice,
  paprika, and red pepper in a small bowl; set aside.  Reserve 1/4 of
  bean sprouts for topping; combine remaining bean sprouts and green
  onions.  Drain noodles. Heat a wok over medium-high heat.  Add oil
  and heat.  Add garlic; fry until garlic starts to brown.  Increase
  heat.  Add chicken; stir-fry until almost cooked, about 2 minutes.
  Push chicken to one side. Break egg into wok. Stir quickly to break
  up yolk and scramble egg. When egg is set, mix with chicken.  Add
  drained noodles, shrimp, fish-sauce mixture and 3 tablespoons
  peanuts.  Cook and stir over high heat 2 to 3 minutes or until
  noodles are soft and most of liquid is absorbed. Add green-onion
  mixture; cook, stirring, 1 more minute. Spoon onto a heated platter.
  Sprinkle with reserved bean sprouts, then with remaining peanuts.
  
  Source:  Cooking with Bon Appetit:  Oriental Favorites From:
  stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Bbq Chicken Appetizers
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Appetizer, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken wing drummettes

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Coarsely chopped garlic
      1 bn Cilantro
           - chop roots & lower stems,
           - reserve leaves for garnish
      1 ts Ground turmeric
      1 ts Curry powder
  1 1/2 ts Ground dried chilis
           -- (cayenne or equivalent)
      1 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Thai fish sauce
           -- (filipino or
           -- vietnamese is ok, too)

MMMMM-----------------------BASTING LIQUID----------------------------
    1/2 c  Coconut milk (canned is ok)

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 ts Dried chili flakes
           -OR- cayenne
      2    Garlic cloves
           -- coarsely chopped
      1 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chinese red rice vinegar
      1    Green onion; thinly sliced
      1 tb Coarsely chopped cilantro
           -- (leaves)
 
  Preparation: ============ Process all marinade ingredients in a
  blender until smooth.  Marinate chicken, refrigerated, overnight.
  Grill over hot coals until done, brushing frequently with coconut
  milk. Serve garnished with cilantro sprigs, accompanied by steamed
  rice and bowls of dipping sauce.
  
  DIPPING SAUCE: ============= Pound first 4 ingredients to a paste with
  mortar and pestle, then dissolve in vinegar. Alternatively, put it
  all in a blender and blend until smooth. Float the green onions and
  cilantro on top.
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Chicken & Coconut Milk Soup (Tom Ka Gai or Kai Tom G
 Categories: Soup/stew, Thai
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Canned coconut milk
           -- such as Chaokoh
    1/4 lb Chicken breast
           -- cut into small chunks
      1    Lime; juice and grated peel
      1    4" piece of lemon grass
           -- cut into very thin
           -- (1/16") slices on the
           -- diagonal
      3 sl Galanga (more if desired)
           --OR substitute fresh ginger
           Hot chile peppers to taste
           -- cut into thin circles
           Cilantro for garnish
 
  * Note: preferably Thai birds, with serranos an acceptable substitute,
  (though I've used sweet Fresno chiles in a variation I'll describe
  below).
  
  Instructions: ============= Pour the lime juice on the chicken and let
  stand while you prepare the rest of the soup. In a medium saucepan,
  place the coconut milk, lemon grass, grated lime peel, galanga or
  ginger, and (optionally) chiles. (The optional part is that if you
  don't want the whole dish to taste spicy, add the chiles later; the
  earlier you add them, the hotter the resulting dish.) Bring the
  coconut milk to a simmer.
  
  When the soup is simmering, add the lime-soaked chicken pieces and
  stir to distribute them.  Reduce the heat so the soup stays just
  below a boil and cook for 12 to 15 minutes, or till the chicken
  pieces are finished cooking. Remove from heat and serve immediately
  with fresh cilantro leaves for garnish.
  
  Now, the *best* way I ever had this soup was with pieces of fresh
  grouper instead of chicken.  I also added slices of kumquats instead
  of the ginger, and used the sweet Fresno chiles instead of Thai
  birds.  We also served it over Vietnamese rice noodles.  Was it
  southeast Asian or Caribbean? Who cares, it was wonderful.  If you
  can't find grouper, it'd be good with any tender, delicate white fish
  ~- sole, maybe, or a very fresh sea bass, or maybe little chunks of
  monkfish.  I believe I've had this with shrimp as well.  (Grouper,
  BTW, is a type of fish common in the Caribbean and, if I recall, in
  other warm-water parts of the world; the flesh is very white, very
  tender, and quite delicately flavored. I've seen it in one Asian
  grocery store in the Bay Area, as well as in the Bahamas, so I'd
  guess that Gulf Coast netters should be able to find it readily.)
  
  Notes: ====== 1. Galanga is similar to ginger, an edible rhizome
  available in most Asian groceries. If not available fresh, you can
  usually find it frozen.  (Well, this is the SF Bay Area; if you can't
  find it at Tin Tin or the New Castro Market, you have to have friends
  smuggle it in from Bangkok for you...  Other parts of the country may
  vary.)
  
  2.  Chile peppers add a lot to the dish; I've had it so hot that I
  could barely eat it, and I've had it completely smooth, sweet and
  mild.  I like it in the middle.
  
  3.  Lemon grass adds a lot to the flavor and aroma, but as near as I
  can tell it isn't edible unless you puree it.  (If there's sufficient
  demand, I'll print my recipe for Vietnamese turkey fajitas.) I just
  eat around the slices of lemon grass and ginger.
  
  From: megatest!sfisher@uu2.psi.com (Scott Fisher)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Chicken Coconut Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Thai
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 cn -TO
      4 cn Coconut milk
           --(the unsweetened kind)
      3 tb Chopped scallions
      1 ts -TO
      3 ts Lemon grass
           Cilantro (pref. fresh) *
           Tofu
           - cubed into smallish pieces
           Chicken
           - also cubed to bite size.
           Mushrooms
      1    Carrot; grated
           Juice from (8?) limes
           - I can never put in enough
           Serrano chillies
           -OR- other hot chili pepper,
           - preferably fresh,
           - but powdered will do)
      1 ts Galanga powder
 
  * (I sometimes leave this out.  Niels says that's defeating the whole
  point, but I think it still comes out great)
  
  Instructions: ============= Heat the coconut milk in a pot. Add
  everything else.  As the lemon grass is inedible, put it in a tea
  ball and immerse the ball in the soup so you can retrieve it later.
  Cook until the chicken is done and the soup is hot (30 minutes?).
  Taste to see if it needs more limes (it always does) or more hot
  peppers (it's better to start mild and build up to the desired level
  of spicyness).
  
  Posted by Tamar More based upon an ingredient list
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Chicken Salad
 Categories: Salad, Poultry, Thai, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Vegetable oil; for frying
     20    Won ton skins
           -- cut into 1/4 inch strips
      8 c  Shredded mixed salad greens
      4 c  Barbecued or roast chicken
           -- in bite-size pieces
           -- (from a 3 lb bird)
      1 c  Bean sprouts
      1 lg Yellow bell pepper
           -- cut into thin julienne
    1/2    European seedless cucumber
           -- cut into thin julienne
      6 tb Fresh lime juice
    1/4 c  Fish sauce (nuoc mam)
    1/4 c  (packed) light brown sugar
      4    Serrano chiles
           -- seeded and minced
    1/2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
      1 tb Fresh lemon grass (optional)
           -- (finely minced)
      1 tb Finely minced fresh ginger
    1/4 c  Minced fresh mint
      3 tb Minced fresh basil
    1/4 c  Dry-roasted unsalted peanuts
           -- coarsely chopped
 
  In a large skillet, heat the oil over moderately high heat until a
  strip of won ton bounces across the surface.  Add the won ton strips
  in batches and fry, turning, until crisp and golden, about 1 minute.
  Transfer to paper towels; drain well.
  
  In a large bowl, combine the mixed greens, chicken, bean sprouts,
  yellow pepper and cucumber.
  
  In a medium bowl, whisk together the lime juice, fish sauce, brown
  sugar, chiles, nutmeg, lemon grass, ginger, mint and basil.  Add the
  dressing to the salad and toss well.  Gently fold in the crisp won
  ton strips. Turn out onto a serving platter and sprinkle with the
  peanuts.
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Chicken with Fresh Basil
 Categories: Poultry, Thai, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable Oil
      1 lb Chicken breast (boned)
      2 tb Garlic; coarsely chopped
      3 tb Nuoc Nam (fish sauce)
    3/4 c  Basil, thinly sliced
      2 tb Sugar
      2    Serrano chilies
      2 tb Water
 
  Skin chicken and cut into 1.25 X 1 in strips.  Remove stems from
  chilies and cut lengthwise into thin strips (discard the seeds).
  Heat oil in wok or large skillet over high heat.  Add garlic and stir
  until golden brown, about 10 seconds.  Add 0.5 cup of basil and the
  chilies and stir-fry just until basil wilts, about 1 minute.  Add
  chicken and stir-fry about 3 minutes.  Add nuoc mam, water and sugar
  and stir-fry until sauce bubbles and thickens slightly, about 2
  minutes.  Add remaining 0.25 cup of basil and stir-fry until just
  wilted, about 5 seconds. Serve immediately with steamed rice...
  
  From: clay@panix.com (Clay Irving)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Fried Noodles (1)
 Categories: Thai, Pasta
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/2 lb Fresh rice noodles
           - cut into 1/2-inch slices,
           -OR- flat dried rice noodles
      1 c  Fresh bean sprouts
    1/3 c  Oil
      1 tb Minced garlic
      4 tb Minced shallots
      2 ts Shrimp paste (kapee)
      1 tb Chopped dried shrimp (opt.)
     10 md Shrimp, shelled, deveined
           -OR- substitute pork
      3 tb Fish sauce (nam pla)
      1 tb Rice vinegar
      2 tb Light brown sugar
      2 tb Tomato ketchup
    1/2 ts -TO
      1 ts Chili powder (optional)
      2    Eggs; lightly beaten

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
    1/3 c  Coarsely ground peanuts
           -- (unsalted)
    1/2 ts Dried red chili flakes (opt)
      2    Green onions; finely sliced
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
      2    Limes; cut into wedges
      1 sm Cucumber; sliced
 
  If using dried rice noodles, soak in hot water for 20 minutes before
  cooking.  Drain.  In 4 quarts boiling water, cook fresh rice noodles
  2 to 3 minutes or until just tender to the bite, al dente.  Drain.
  Rinse. Drain for 30 minutes or until dry.  In boiling water, blanch
  the bean sprouts for 30 seconds.  Refresh under cold water.  Drain.
  
  Heat oil.  Fry garlic and shallots until golden.  Add the shrimp
  paste and dried shrimp.  Stir.  Add the shrimp and stir-fry until
  done.  Add the fish sauce, vinegar, sugar, ketchup, and chili powder.
  Stir until sugar dissolves.  Add the beaten eggs and let them set
  slightly.  Then stir to scramble.  Add the noodles and toss for about
  2 minutes.  Place the Pad Thai on a platter.  Sprinkle the noodles
  with peanuts, chili flakes, green onions, and coriander.  Arrange
  lime wedges around the edge of the platter. Serve with a side dish of
  fresh bean sprouts and cucumbers.
  
  (Yield: 3-4 serving)
  
  Source: The Southeast Asia Cookbook, by Ruth Law From:
  stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Fried Noodles (2)
 Categories: Thai, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Asian rice noodles
           -- cut about 1/8 inch wide,
           -OR-
      1 lb Flat rice noodles
           -- (fresh or dried)
    3/4 c  Fish sauce; -OR-
      6 tb -Soy sauce
      4 ts Rice wine vinegar
           -OR- distilled white vinegar
      2 tb Sugar
      4 ts High-quality paprika; -OR-
    1/4 c  -Catsup or Tomato paste
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
           -OR more if needed
      8 oz Boneless pork
           -OR- boned & skinned chicken
           - cut into very small pieces
      2 tb Minced or pressed garlic
      2 ts Ground dried red hot chili,
           -OR-
      1 tb Minced fresh hot chile
      4    Eggs; lightly beaten
      8 oz Medium-sized shrimp
           -- shelled and deveined,
           -- tails left intact
     10 oz Fresh bean sprouts
      3    Green onions; thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Chopped dry-roasted peanuts
           -- (unsalted)
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro

MMMMM------------------------FOR GARNISH-----------------------------
           Finely minced dried shrimp
           Fresh cilantro sprigs
           Lemon or lime wedges
 
  In a bowl, cover the noodles in lukewarm water and let stand to
  soften, about 15 minutes for fresh noodles or about 30 minutes for
  dry noodles. Drain and cut into 6-inch lengths, if desired.  Set
  aside.
  
  In a small bowl, combine the fish sauce, vinegar, sugar, and paprika,
  catsup, or tomato paste.  Set aside.
  
  Heat a wok or saute pan over high heat.  Add the oil and swirl to
  coat the pan.  Add the pork or chicken, garlic, and chili and
  stir-fry for 1 minute. Stir in the drained noodles and the reserved
  fish sauce mixture and stir-fry about 30 seconds.  Push the noodles
  to one side, pour in about a tablespoon more oil, if necessary, and
  add the eggs; cook just until slightly set, then break them up.  Add
  the shrimp and stir-fry just until they turn pink.  Add most of the
  bean sprouts, the green onion, and 1/4 cup of the peanuts and
  stir-fry until the sprouts and onions are crisp-tender, 1 to 2
  minutes.  Remove from the heat and transfer to a serving plate.
  
  Sprinkle with the chopped cilantro, remaining 1/4 cup peanuts, and
  dried shrimp.  Garnish with the remaining bean sprouts, cilantro
  sprigs, and lemon or lime wedges, and serve immediately.  Diners
  squeeze lemon or lime juice to taste.
  
  Serves 8 as a pasta course, or 4 as a main course
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Fried Noodles (3)
 Categories: Thai, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      4    Garlic cloves
           -- finely crushed
      1 tb Fish sauce
      3 tb -TO
      4 tb Lime juice
      1 ts Crushed palm sugar
      2    Eggs; beaten
     12 oz Rice vermicelli
           -- soaked in water for
           -- 20 minutes, drained
      4 oz Peeled shrimp
      4 oz Bean sprouts
      4    Green onions; sliced

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
      2 tb Dried shrimp, ground
           Roasted peanuts
           -- finely chopped
           Cilantro leaves
           Lime slices
 
  Heat oil in a wok, add garlic and cook, stirring occasionally, until
  golden.  Stir in fish sauce, lime juice and sugar until sugar has
  dissolved.  Quickly stir in eggs and cook for a few seconds.  Stir in
  noodles to coat with garlic and egg, then add shrimps, 3/4 of the bean
  sprouts and half of the green onions.
  
  When noodles are tender, transfer contents of wok to a warmed serving
  dish. Garnish with remaining bean sprouts and green onions, dried
  shrimp, peanuts, cilantro leaves and lime slices.
  
  Source: The Book of Thai Cooking, by Hilaire Walden; HPBooks,
  :       ISBN 1-55788-038-7
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Noodles
 Categories: Thai, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Chopped cabbage
      1 md Onion; chopped
  1 1/2 ts Oil
      9 oz Pasta shapes
           -- (shells, bow-ties, etc)
    1/4 c  Crunchy peanut butter
      1 tb Fresh lime juice
  1 1/2 ts Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Soy sauce
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce *
    1/4 ts Crushed red pepper
    1/2 ts Curry powder
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
      1    Garlic clove
           -- minced or mashed
      7 oz Coconut "milk"
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      1 ts Chopped fresh basil
 
  * (Vegetarian or regular worcestershire sauce, as you prefer.)
  
  Saute cabbage and onion in oil til just softened.  Set aside in large
  bowl. Cook pasta till al dente.  While pasta cooks, mix next 9
  ingredients in a sauce pan.  Heat gently, adding coconut milk
  gradually. Do not boil. Mix cooked pasta with sauce and veggies.  Mix
  in cilantro and basil. Serve immediately.
  
  4-6 main dish servings.  This is a heavy dish; serve with a steamed
  veggie, and/or a light green salad.
  
  From: kra@sdd.hp.com (Katherine Albitz)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Rice Noodles
 Categories: Thai, Pasta, Pork
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Dried rice noodles
           -- medium size
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      2    Garlic cloves; finely minced
      3 tb Chopped raw shrimp
      3 tb Lean ground pork
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Fish sauce
      1 ts Soy sauce
      2 ts Hot chili sauce
      2    Beaten eggs
      2 tb Tamarind sauce
    1/4 c  Bean sprouts
      1    Scallion; sliced
      1 tb Salty preserved radish
      2 tb Coarsely ground peanuts
           - (salted or unsalted)
      2 tb Sliced green onions
      2    Lemon wedges
      1    Cucumber
 
  1.  Soak noodles in hot water for 20 minutes, or until soft.  Drain.
  
  2.  Heat oil in a wok or large skillet and saute garlic until golden.
  Add the shrimp and ground pork and stir-fry until lightly browned.
  Add the sugar, fish sauce, soy sauce, and chili sauce and stir-fry
  until the sugar dissolves.  Pour in the beaten eggs, let them set
  slightly, then stir to scramble.
  
  3.  Add the noodles and stir-fry about 2 minutes.  Push noodles to
  side of wok or skillet.  Add the tamarind sauce and cook for 1
  minute.  Add the bean sprouts, scallions, radish, and stir-fry until
  bean sprouts are slightly cooked, about 1 minute.  Stir noodles down
  into tamarind mixture and stir-fry until well-mixed.
  
  4.  Pile noodles on a serving dish and sprinkle with peanuts and
  scallions. Seed cucumber and slice lengthwise into 4 pieces.  Place
  lemon and cucumber wedges on side of plate.
  
  From: stigle@cs.unca.edu (Sue Stigleman)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Salmon Parcels
 Categories: Thai, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    4-5oz salmon fillets
      4    Sheets filo pastry
      1 oz Butter
      1 ts Grated ginger
      1    Garlic clove; pressed
      1    Spring onion; finely chopped
      1 tb Fresh coriander
           -- (finely chopped)
      1    Lime; zest & juice
           Salt & pepper
 
  Mix together lime zest and juice, garlic, spring onion, ginger and
  coriander.
  
  Melt butter.  Lay out 1 sheet of filo, and brush with butter.  Lay
  second sheet on top, brush with more butter.  Lay a salmon fillet
  about 2-3 inches from short side of pastry, season to taste and put
  half of lime mixture on top.  Fold short end of pastry over salmon,
  then fold in the 2 long sides. Fold the salmon over twice more, and
  cut off the remaining pastry. Do the same with the other fillet.
  
  Put the parcels on a well-greased baking sheet, and just before baking
  brush with the remaining butter.Cook at gas mark 5 for 20-25 mins,
  until brown and crispy.
  
  Source: Delia Smith's summer collection
  
  From: kv@aifh.ed.ac.uk (Karen Valley)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Tomyum Gung (Shrimp) / Gai (Chicken)
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Seafood, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    -to
      3    Stalks of lemon grass
      2 lb Tiger shrimps
           -OR- boneless chicken meat
      5    -to
      6    Lime leaves (kaffir)
           Lemon juice & fish sauce
      2    -to
      3 sm Red/green chili peppers
      1 cn Straw mushrooms
  1 1/2 tb Thai chili paste *
           Cilantro/parsley
 
  * with soya beans oil (dark redish-brown color), which comes in a jar
  that can be bought at any Thai grocery
  
  Instructions: ============= Boil some water (half of the pot) in a
  1.5qt sauce pan.  Put in lemon grass, and the chili paste. Put in the
  shrimps and the mushrooms.  Let it boil for 10 minutes. Put in the
  "lime" leaves and sliced chili peppers (1 min). It's done!!
  
  Now you can mix it in a serving bowl with some lemon juice and fish
  sauce. Garnish with cilantro and serve hot with Thai Jasmine rice.
  
  From: nat@megatek.com
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Toam Yum Gai (Thai Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Thai
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------GENERIC CHICKEN BROTH------------------------
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1 ts Sesame Oil
      3    Whole cloves
      2    Bay leaves
      1    Sprig of fresh thyme *
      1 md Onion; cut into pieces
      2 lg Carrots; cut into pieces
      1    Chicken, cut into pieces **
      6 c  Water

MMMMM----------------------EVERYTHING ELSE---------------------------
           Mushrooms ***
           Shrimp if you want ***
      1    Stalk lemongrass
           -- cut into 2 inch pieces
      2 sl Galanga root
           -- (more if you like
           -- chewing on them.)
      4    Kaffir lime leaves
           Cilantro leaves as desired
      1 ts Chili sauce
      2 tb Fish sauce
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
           Sliced hot peppers
           -(2 or 3 slices per serving)
 
  * (ad libbed with about 1 tsp or 1 tblsp of powdered thyme)
  
  ** (Some boneless skinless chicken pieces, plus some thighs with the
  bones bashed once with the back of a knife would be ok too -- the
  point being to get the flavor from the marrow out.)
  
  *** as many as you want, cut any way you want, of any kind you want
  
  Instructions: ============= Use a large covered stockpot. Heat olive
  and sesame oil on high heat. Add cloves, bay leaves, thyme, (these
  should be pounded a bit first to crack the fibers and release more
  flavor) and onion, carrots.  Cover 2 minutes, stir if you want.
  
  Add chicken on top, and pour ONE cup of water over the tops of the
  chicken. Cover.  Cook 5 minutes on high.
  
  Add remainder of water, cover, continue heating till it starts to
  boil, then turn heat down and simmer covered 30 minutes.  Skim off
  foam occasionally.  Remove chicken, debone, and cut into bite sized
  pieces. Strain soup, avoid getting the sediment at the bottom.  (What
  you do with the leftover veggies after making a stock is up to you.
  I think they end up in Minnesotan hot dishes....)
  
  Take 4 cups of the stock, heat until it begins to boil, turn down the
  heat till it is just simmering.  Add galanga, lemongrass, Kaffir lime
  leaves (bash them a bit to break the fibers--it allows them to
  release more flavor).  Add mushrooms, chicken, (shrimp if you must).
  Stir in the fish sauce, chili paste.  Cover, cook for another 5
  minutes.  Serve.
  
  Add lemon juice (just have slices of lemon or lime that you can
  squeeze) cilantro, and thinly sliced jalepenos or other hot peppers
  at the table. Fresh liquorice basil also adds a nice touch.
  
  Comments/Modifications: ======================= We cheated and used
  Swansons reduced salt chicken stock for the water in the beginning
  because we used boneless skinless chicken.  Can't tell if it hurt or
  helped.
  
  Also had 4 shiitake mushrooms which had been soaking for several
  days, so they were cut up, and the soaking juice was added along with
  the chicken and mushrooms.  About one cup of this.  Big win.  Yum.
  
  Source: "Smart Cooking" by Somebody (I forget) Kerr
  
  From: hiroki@limerick.cbs.umn.edu (Hiroki Morizono)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tom Kha Gai
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Soup/stew, Chicken
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Boneless chicken breast
           -- cut up bit sized
      2    -TO
      3    Stalks of lemon grass
           - cut up into 2" pieces
           - and separated
      6    Pieces of dried galangal
      1 cn Coconut milk
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Dried crushed red chilis
           -- (optional)
      7 c  -Water
 
  Place the chicken, lemon grass and galangal in a soup pot.  Add the
  water and cook over medium for about 30 minutes.  Add the remaining
  ingredients and simmer for 20 minutes.  You may need to adjust the
  salt, sugar and water as I find the taste varies with the brand of
  coconut milk used. Serve with extra chilis and white rice.
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yellow Curry Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Thai, Main dish, Chicken, Curries
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken breast meat
           - (boneless, skinless)
           - cut in bite-size pieces
      2 c  -TO
      3 c  Fresh veggies
           -- mushrooms, asparagus,
           -- onions, zucchini, ...
      2    Potatoes; peeled and
           -- cut in pieces, pre-cooked
      2    Carrots; cut in bite-size
           -- pieces, pre-cooked
           -OR- half this amount
    1/2 c  Frozen peas (approximately)
      2 tb Vegetable oil
           -- (less if desired)
      1 tb Red curry paste
     14 oz Coconut milk
      4 tb Fish sauce (less if desired)
      1 ds Salt
      2 tb Sugar (less if desired)
      1 tb Yellow curry powder
    1/2 c  Water or chicken stock
    1/2    Bay leaf
 
  1A.  Pre-cook potatoes and carrots.  Don't cook them too done, since
  they will simmer with the main dish later.
  
  1.  Cut boneless, skinless chicken breast into bite-size pieces.
  
  2.  Wash and cut fresh vegetables into bite-size pieces.
  
  3.  In a heavy saucepan on medium heat, heat the veg.  oil, red curry
  paste, and about one third of the coconut milk.  Heat 5-10 minutes,
  stirring, until it forms a thin gravy.
  
  4.  Turn the heat to high, add the chicken, and cook until the
  chicken is half cooked, maybe five minutes.
  
  5.  Add the fish sauce, sugar, salt, and rest of the coconut milk,
  and mix well.
  
  6.  Stir in the curry powder, potatoes, carrots, and water/stock.  If
  desired, add 1/s bay leaf.  Let simmer just a minute or two.
  
  7.  Add the fresh vegetables and the frozen peas, and let simmer for
  3 to 5 minutes, until fresh veggies are just done.
  
  8.  Serve (with jasmine rice...).
  
  From: arielle@taronga.com (Stephanie da Silva)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Abidjan Cabbage Salad
 Categories: Salad, Snack, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Thinly sliced cabbage
      1 c  Shredded carrot
      1 c  Pineapple chunks
           Juice of 1 lemon
           Juice of 1 orange
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
 
  Place cabbage, carrots & pineapple into a large bowl.  Mix the
  dressing by whisking all the ingredients together till creamy or by
  drizzling the oil into the juices while in a blender.  Thoroughly
  blend the dressing & the vegetables.  Refrigerate or serve
  immediately.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Adas Careh (Lentil Butter)
 Categories: Appetizer, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Uncooked lentils
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Olive oil
      6 ea Green onions, sliced
      1 sm Garlic clove, minced
  1 1/2 tb Parsley
      1 ds Cayenne
      1 ds Turmeric
    1/4 c  Water, as needed
 
  Combine water, lentils, salt in a pot.  Cook till lentils are soft.
  Drain, reserve stock.
  
  Heat oil in skillet & saute onions & garlic till onions are
  translucent. Add parsley & spices & cook another minute.  Set aside.
  
  Combine lentils, cooking water & onion mixture in a food processor,
  adding more water a tb at a time as needed till the mixture reaches a
  spreadable consistency.
  
  Refrigerate a few hours before serving.  Spread on whole grain
  crackers or use as a vegetable dip.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" March, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Adrak
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Grated fresh ginger
      4 c  Stock or water
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Cumin seeds, toasted
    1/2 ts Black pepper
           Juice of one lemon
           Fresh coriander leaves
 
  Put grated ginger & stock into a pot & bring to a boil.  Simmer 30
  minutes till the water has reduced by half.  Add salt, cumin &
  pepper.  Simmer for another 2 minutes.  Squeeze in lemon juice &
  garnish with coriander.
  
  Excellent as a cold remedy & as a starter to an Indian meal.
  
  Bruce Cost, "Ginger East to West"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Adzuki Bean Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Adzuki beans
           - soaked overnight
      2 oz Margarine
      1    Onion; chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; crushed
      1 lb Leeks; trimmed,
           - washed well & sliced
      1    Carrot; diced
      8 oz Mushrooms; wiped & sliced
      1 tb Hungarian paprika, sweet
      1 pn Cayenne pepper; to taste
      2 tb Wholewheat flour
    1/2 pt Vegetable stock
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 lb Chopped tomatoes
           Salt & pepper; to taste
           Parsley; chopped, to garnish

MMMMM-------------------------DUMPLINGS------------------------------
      4 oz Wholewheat flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 oz Margarine
      3 tb Parsley, half if using dried
      3 fl Water (or milk if preferred)
           -OR- less, as needed
 
  Drain the beans & cover with fresh water.  Bring to a boil & simmer
  till tender, about 35 minutes.  Drain, reserving the liquid.
  
  Heat margarine in a large pot.  Add the onion & cook until
  transparent. Add the garlic, leeks, carrot & mushrooms & cook gently
  for 4 to 5 minutes. Stir in the paprika, pepper & flour. Add stock,
  soy sauce, tomato paste, tomatoes & salt & pepper.  Bring to a boil,
  cover & simmer gently for 10 minutes.  Stir in the beans & bring back
  to a boil.
  
  Add the dumplings.  Cover with a tight fitting lid & simmer for 20-25
  minutes very gently to prevent burning.  Sprinkle generously with
  parsley before serving.
  
  FOR DUMPLINGS: Put the flour & salt into a bowl.  Rub in margarine
  till it resembles fine breadcrumbs.  Stir in parsley.  Add just
  enough liquid to make a firm dough.  Divide into 8 pieces & shape
  into dumplings.
  
  Serves 4 to 6.
  
  Courtesy of Mark Satterly
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: African Green Pepper and Spinach
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Onion; chopped
      1 md Green pepper; chopped
      1 tb Oil
      1 md Tomato; chopped
      1 lb Fresh spinach; stems removed
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Peanut butter
 
  Cook and stir onion and green pepper in oil in 3-quart saucepan until
  onion is tender. Add tomato and spinach. Cover and simmer until
  spinach is tender, about 5 minutes. Stir in salt, pepper and peanut
  butter. Heat just until hot.
  
  BETTY CROCKER REGIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL RECIPES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: African Squash and Yams (Futari)
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      2 tb Oil
      1 lb Hubbard squash; pared
           --and cut into 1-inch pieces
      2 md Yams or sweet potatoes
           --pared & cut into 1" pieces
      1 c  Coconut Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
 
  Cook and stir onion in oil in 10-inch skillet over medium heat until
  tender. Stir in remaining ingredients. Heat to boiling. Reduce heat.
  Cover and simmer 10 minutes. Simmer, uncovered, stirring
  occasionally, until vegetables are tender, about 5 minutes longer.
  
  Makes 6 to 8 servings
  
  BETTY CROCKER REGIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL RECIPES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Butter Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 30 servings
 
    1/4 c  Canola oil
      1 c  Almond butter
    1/4 c  Maple syrup
    1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
      1 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
           -(Sifted before measuring)
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Preheat oven to 300F. Lightly grease a baking sheet (or use a nonstick
  one).
  
  Mix together almond butter and oil; beat until smooth. Mix in maple
  syrup and vanilla extract.
  
  Stir together flour and salt. Add to almond butter mixture and mix
  until just combined. Cover and refrigerate for 10 minutes.
  
  Roll dough into 3/4-inch balls. Place on baking sheet and flatten
  with a fork.
  
  Bake in preheated oven for 25 minutes, until bottoms are lightly
  browned. Cool a couple of minutes on the baking sheet, then transfer
  to a cooling rack.
  
  Variation: try with other nut butters.
  
  From: Breadtime Stories: A Cookbook for Bakers and Browsers, by Susan
  Jane Cheney
  
  Shari Dawson @Newsgroups: rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almondnog
 Categories: Beverage, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Almond milk
           - (See SOYNOG recipe)
      2    Bananas (not over-ripe)
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
           -- more if desired
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Blend the above until smooth, then sprinkle a little nutmeg on top.
  Serve immediately as banana changes flavour when it sits after
  blending, so don't try to keep in the refrigerator.
  
  This comes from Maryln Diamond's book. posted by Ted Wayn Altar in
  REC.FOOD.VEG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aloo Matar Rasedaar
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5 tb Ghee
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      2 ea Cloves
      2 ea Bay leaves
      1 ea 1 inch cinnamon stick
      1 ts Garam masala
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Coriander
      2 ea Tomatoes, quartered
           Salt to taste
      2 md Potatoes, cubed
    1/2 c  Green peas
  1 1/4 c  Water
           Chopped cilantro
 
  Heat ghee & saute onion & garlic over medium heat till golden.  Add
  cloves, bay leaves & cinnamon.  Stir fry for 2 minutes.
  
  Add garam masala, chili powder, turmeric, coriander, tomatoes & salt.
  Mix well.  Add potatoes & peas.  Pour in water & bring to a boil.
  
  Lower heat, cover the pan & simmer gently for 15 minutes, or until the
  potatoes are done.
  
  Garnish with coriander leaves & serve hot.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Alsatian Onion Pie
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Pie/tart, German
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oil (he recommends corn)
      3 lg Onions; finely diced
      1 c  Soy milk
    1/3 c  Firm tofu; crushed by hand
  1 1/2 ts Sea salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      2 tb Unbleached flour
      1 tb Couscous
      1    Wholewheat pie shell
           -in a 10-inch tart shell
 
  Saute onions in oil (I added 1/2 cup water to prevent burning, or you
  could substitute water for the oil to reduce fat), until translucent
  and mostly soft.  Blend the soy milk, tofu, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and
  flour until smooth.  Then combine the onions, the soy milk mixture
  and the couscous. Pour into the prepared pie shell.  Bake in a
  preheated oven at 350 degrees F for about 30 minutes.
  
  Gail Null, "The New Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Another Garlic Soup Recipe
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Garlic, peeled & minced
      1 tb Onion, chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
    2/3 c  Tomatoes
      1 qt Stock
           Pepper
           Croutons
 
  Combine garlic & onion in a bowl.  Heat oil in a large pot.  Add
  garlic & onion & saute till soft.  Do not brown.  Add chopped
  tomatoes & stir in well.  After a few minutes, stir in stock &
  pepper.  Simmer for 15 minutes. Add salt if desired.
  
  Serve with croutons.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Antipasto Salad
 Categories: Salad, Pasta, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Cauliflower,small
           -in small flowerettes
      3    Carrots; large, thinly slic
      1    Green pepper; diced
      1 c  Black olives
  2 1/2 c  Pasta; rotini

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
  1 1/4 c  Oil; vegetable or corn
    3/4 c  Vinegar, cider
      2    Garlic cloves; peeled & min
      1 tb Sugar
           Salt & pepper
 
  In large bowl, toss together cauliflower, carrots, green pepper and
  olives. Cook rotini in large pot of boiling salted water till tender
  but firm about 8 to 10 minutes, drain and rinse in cold water.
  Dressing: Combine oil, vinegar, garlic and sugar, adding salt and
  pepper to taste; mix well. Pour all but  1/3 cup dressing over salad,
  tossing to mix, reserve remaining dressing. Cover and refrigerate
  overnight. Just before serving, taste and readjust seasonings and add
  remaining dressing if necessary.
  
  Carol Ferguson, "The Canadian Living Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Antipasto Salad Ii
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Whole button mushrooms
      1 c  Canned artichoke hearts
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Balsamic vinegar
      2 tb Red wine, optional
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 ea Romain lettuce, chopped
      1 ea English cucumber, sliced
      2 ea Stalks celery, julienned
      4 lg Tomatoes, cut into eighths
      4 ea Green onions, cut in half
           -- lengthwise
    1/2 c  Radishes, quartered
 
  In a large bowl, combine mushrooms, artichoke hearts, olive oil,
  vinegar, wine, basil, oregano, salt, pepper.  Toss, set aside & let
  marinate at room temperature for 30 minutes.
  
  Arrange chopped lettuce on a large platter, strain mushrooms &
  artichokes from the marinade & place in centre of lettuce.  Arrange
  remaining vegetables around centre.  Drizzle remaining marinade ove
  antipasto & serve.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aphrodisiac Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water
  1 1/2 c  Unbleached white flour
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      2 pn Parsley
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Garlic minced
 
  In a large bowl, sprinkle yeast into water & dissolve.  Add the rest
  of the ingredients in order & beat well.
  
  On a floured surface, knead dough lightly for 5 minutes.  Form into a
  round bread & set aside until its has doubled.
  
  Preheat oven to 350F & bake for 45 minutes till light brown.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple and Rye Bread Pudding
 Categories: Dessert, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------FORMATTED BY S.GRABOWSKI-----------------------
  5 1/2 c  Cubed fresh or stale
           Sourdough, wheat, or rye
           Bread
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 tb Caraway seeds ->OR<-
           Anise seeds
      5 c  Diced apples
    1/2 c  Apple bitter
      1 tb Sunflower butter ->OR<-
           Tahini
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Mellow or sweet miso
      2 c  Amazake beverage (original)
           ->OR<-
           Vanilla soy milk
 
  Cube bread and toss in a large bowl with raisins and caraway seeds.
  Stale bread may be used instead of fresh. Toss apples in a bolw with
  bread cubes.
  
  Combine apple and sunflower butter (or tahini), 1 cup water, miso,
  amazake or soy milk, then pour liquid mixture over apples and bread.
  Stir to coat. Spoon mixture into a lightly oiled 2-quart casserole
  dish or two 9-inch pie plates or cake pans. Cover with lid
  (oven-proof).
  
  Allow mixture to sit for 2 to 4 hours before baking so bread will
  soak up flavors. Bake covered at 350F for 1 hour or until slightly
  firm and mixture pulls away from sides slightly. Then remove from
  oven and spoon into individual dessert cups. An ice cream scooper
  works well. Allow to cool slightly and then serve.
  
  Total calories per serving: 242  Fat: 4 grams From the Vegetarian
  Journal Nov/Dec 1992  page 15
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Barley Soup
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lg Onions; thinly sliced
      2 tb Vegetable oil
  3 1/2 c  Vegetable stock
  1 1/2 c  Apple cider
           -OR- unsweetened apple juice
    1/3 c  Pearl barley
      2 lg Carrots; diced
      1 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Dried marjoram
      1    Bay leaf
      2 c  Unpeeled chopped apples
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley, minced
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  In a small soup pot, saute onions in oil over medium heatfor 5 min.,
  stirring constantly. Reduce heat, cover and cook, stirring frequently
  for 10 min.or until onions are browned. Add stock, cider, barley,
  carrots, thyme, marjoram and bay leaf. Cover and cook for one hour or
  until barley is tender.Add apples, parsley and lemon juice. Cook for
  5 minutes or until apples are slightly soft. Discard bay leaf and
  serve. Marie C=:-)
  
  Jane Marsh Dieckman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aromatic Cabbage
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Cabbage; small, about 2 1/2s
      2    Onions;medium
      3 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds,whole
    1/2 ts Fennel seeds, whole
      4 ts Sesame seeds
    1/2 ts -Salt
 
  "This fine stir-fry will make fans out of people who are ho-hum about
  cabbage. This recipe is from Madhur Jaffray's Cookbook, _Food for
  Family and Friends_.
    Remove coarse outer leaves from cabbage, quarter and core. Cut into
  fine fine shred, either by hand or with food processor. Set aside.
  Peel onions; cut in half lengthwise. Cut crosswise into thin half
  rings; set aside.
    In large wok or large wide pot over medium heat, heat oil. When
  very hot, add the cumin and the fennel seeds. As soon as the seeds
  turn a shade darker (just a few minutes) toss in the sesame seeds.
  Stir for a second before adding onions. Stir fry 2 or 3 minutes or
  'til browned on the edges. Cover tightly and turn heat to low. Cook
  2-3 minutes or 'til cabbage wilts. Uncover and cook over high heat,
  stir fry 5 minutes or 'til vegetables are very tender. SERVES: 6
  SOURCE: _Food for Family and Friends_ by Madhur Jaffray via Toronto
  Sun.
  
  Posted by Anne Maclellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus Strudel
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Side dish, Breakfast
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lg Onions; finely chopped
    1/4 lb Butter or vegan margarine
           -plus:
      2 tb Butter or vegan margarine
  1 1/3 c  Fine fresh breadcrumbs
      8    Phyllo pastry sheets
  1 1/2 lb Trimmed asparagus; washed,
           - chopped and cooked
           - until tender
    1/4 c  Finely chopped parsley

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
           Parsley sprigs
           Lemon slices
           Asparagus tips

MMMMM----------------VEGAN YOGURT & HERB DRESSING---------------------
    1/2 c  Vegan yogurt
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      2 tb Chopped mint
 
  Preheat the oven to 400 F.  Saute the onions in 2 tablespoons of the
  butter or vegan margarine for 10 minutes, until soft but not browned.
  
  In another pan, heat 4 tablespoons of the butter or vegan margarine
  and saute the crumbs until crisp.  Melt the remaining butter or vegan
  margarine in a small saucepan.
  
  Spread one phyllo pastry sheet out on a large board and brush with
  butter or margarine.  Put another pastry sheet on top and brush with
  more butter or margarine.  Repeat until all sheets have been used.
  
  Spread the onions evenly on top of the pastry, keeping the edges
  clear. Put the asparagus over the top of the onions and sprinkle with
  three-quarters of the crumbs and the parsley.
  
  Fold over 2 inches all around the pastry, then fold the long edges
  over to make a roll.
  
  Place the roll, seam side down, on a baking sheet and bend it around
  into a horseshoe shape.  Brush with remaining melted butter or
  margarine and sprinkle with the remaining crumbs.  Bake for 40
  minutes, until golden and crisp.  Garnish with parsley sprigs, lemon
  slices and asparagus tips.
  
  Combine Yogurt and Herb Dressing ingredients, and serve with Strudel.
  
  Source: The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine - by Rose Elliot ISBN:
  0-394-57123-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Autumn Quinoa and Butter Beans
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Quinoa
      2 tb Margarine
    3/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 tb Minced fresh ginger
    3/4 c  Orange juice
    2/3 c  -Water
      2 tb Honey
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Ground cardamom
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
      1 c  Diced sweet potato
           -(1/2" pieces)
      1 c  Diced butternut squash
           -(1/2" pieces)
  1 1/2 c  Cooked/canned butter beans
           -(drained and rinsed)
    1/4 c  Chopped cranberries
 
  Thoroughly rinse the quinoa by placing it in a large bowl and filling
  the bowl with cold water.  Drain the quinoa and repeat the rinsing
  and draining 4 more times; set aside.
  
  Melt the margarine in a 2-quart saucepan over medium-high heat.  Add
  the onion and ginger, and cook, stirring, until the onion is
  softened.  Stir in the orange juice, water, honey, salt, coriander,
  cardamom, and nutmeg; bring to a boil.  Stir in the sweet potato and
  squash; bring to a boil. Cook, uncovered, 7 minutes.  Stir in the
  butter beans and quinoa, and return to a boil.  Reduce the heat and
  simmer, covered, 15 minutes.  Stir in the cranberries; simmer,
  covered, 5 minutes longer.
  
  Calories:       345                     Total Fat:      6.7 g
  Protein: 10.8 g                  Saturated Fat:  1.3 g Carbohydrates:
  56.0 g Cholesterol: 0 Fiber: 8.8 g Sodium: 392 mg
  
  Source: Wholesome Harvest - by Carol Gelles (ISBN: 0-316-30735-1)
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baba Ganouj
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 lg Eggplants
      2 ea Lemons, juiced
      2 tb Tahini
           Salt
      1 lg Garlic clove
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley, fresh
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Cook eggplants whole on all sides, turning as necessary til lthey are
  soft throughout & the skin is charred.  Set aside to cool for 1 hour.
  
  Peel eggplants & discard skin.  In a mixing bowl, add lemon juice &
  tahini. Blend well.  Add salt to taste.
  
  Finely chop the garlic clove & add to mashed eggplant.  Stir well &
  chill. To serve, place in a flat serving dish & garnish with parsley.
  Pour olive oil the top.
  
  Joel Rapp, "Mother Earth's Vegetarian Feasts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baigan Aur Tamaatar
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Eggplant
      2 tb Ghee
      1 sm Onion, chopped finely
      1 ea Garlic cloves, sliced
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 ea 1" cinnamon stick
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 sl 1/2" fresh ginger
      2 md Tomatoes
      1 ts Garam masala
 
  Wash & slice aubergines.
  
  Heat ghee & saute the onion & garlic when hot for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add
  turmeric, bay leaf & cinnamon stick & saute for a further 2 minutes,
  stirring frequently.
  
  Stir in sliced eggplant.  Add salt, cayenne & ginger. Blend together
  well. Cook for 10 minutes.
  
  Add tomatoes, cover pot & cook for another 10 minutes.
  
  Sprinkle with garam masala & serve.
  
  Be careful not to overcook otherwise it will go very mushy.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Bulgur with Pecans
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Bulgur wheat, uncooked
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 c  Boiling water
    1/4 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
  
  Lightly oil a 1 quart baking dish or spray with a nonstick cooking
  spray. Place bulgur, basil, salt and pepper in prepared baking dish.
  Add boiling water and mix well.
  
  Cover tightly and bake 20 minutes.
  
   Fluff with a fork, add pecans, and mix well.
  
   Serve hot.
  
   Per serving: 129 cal, 4 g prot, 4 g fat, 22 g carbohydrate, 51 mg
  sod, 0 mg chol
  
   From _Lean, Luscious and Meatless_ by Bobbie Hinman and Millie Snyder
  
  DEEANNE                      at 13:11 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Harvest Vegetables
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Varietal non-sparkling white
           -or pink grape juice
      3 c  Unpeeled yams cut into 1.5"
           -chunks
      3 c  Unpeeled carrots, cut into
           -1.5" slices
      3 c  Unpeeled parsnips, cut into
           -1.5" slices
      3 c  Peeled onions, cut into 1.5"
           -wedges
      2 c  Water
      3 c  Celery, cut into 1.5" slices
    1/3 c  Water
      5 tb Arrowroot
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley, minced
 
   Preheat oven to 450 degrees.
  
   Place the first 6 ingredients into a stainless steel or cast iron
  pot. Cover with a tight fitting lid and bake for 60 minutes.
  
   Add the celery. Continue baking for 30 minutes more.
   Remove from oven. Place pot on medium heat on stove and bring to a
  boil.
  
   Mix the 1/3 cup water and arrowroot together until smooth. Pour into
  the vegetable mixture, stirring constantly until it thickens and
  becomes clear. Remove from heat.
  
   Garnish with 1/4 cup fresh parsley, minced.
  
   Yield:  6-8 servings
  
   Per Serving: 229 cal, 5 g protein, 0 g fat,, 53 g carbohydrates, 0
  chol
  
   From _Murrieta Hot Springs Vegetarian Cookbook_ by the Murrieta
  Foundation
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Honey Tomatoes
 Categories: Vegetable, Tomato
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Tomoatoes; medium
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs; fresh, coarse
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Tarragon; dried
      4 ts Honey
      4 ts Margarine
 
  Preheat oven to 350F. Slice off stem ends of tomatoes  and carefully
  scrape out seeds. Place open side up in buttered baking dish. Mix
  bread crumbs, salt, pepper and tarragon. Drizzle honey over tomatoes,
  rubbing it down into cavities.  Sprinkle tomatoes with crumb mixture
  and dot with butter. Bake uncovered for 30 minutes, till tomato skins
  begin to wrinkle. Place under broiler for another 5 minutes or till
  crumbs begin to brown. Serve hot or at room temperature.
  
  Lee Bailey, "Southern Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Macaroni & Tofu
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked elbow macaroni
      1 c  Mashed tofu
      3 c  Cheesy gravy
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Combine tofu & macaroni.  Place in a baking
  dish. Pour gravy over the mixture & bake 20 minutes.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Stuffed Vidalia Onions
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Vidalia onions
      1 ts Olive oil
    1/2 c  TVP flakes or granules
    1/2 c  Hot water
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pn Cayenne pepper
    1/2 c  Fine breadcrumbs
    1/2 c  Vegetable stock
    1/2 c  Grape juice or white wine
 
  Peel onion then slice the tops off & hollow out.  Leave about a
  1/2-inch shell.  Reserve the onion centres.  Place shells in a
  steamer basket & steam for 6 minutes after the water has come to a
  boil.
  
  Measure 1/2 cup of the reserved onion & finely chop.  In a small
  skillet heat oil & saute onion till it is soft.
  
  Stir together TVP flakes & water.  Add seasonings & mix well.
  Combine with the cooked onions & stir in the breadcrumbs.  Place the
  hollowed out onion shells in a baking dish.  Spoon filling into the
  shells.  Any remaining filling that won't fit into the shells can be
  placed around the shells. Leave uncovered bake at 375F for 30 to 35
  minutes.  Let stand for 5 minutes before serving.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" February, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Lime Bread
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shortening
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb White vinegar
      3    Ripe bananas, mashed
      3 tb Water
      1 tb Lime juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ginger powder
    3/4 c  Coconut, grated
      1 ts Baking powder
      2 c  White flour
           GLAZE
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      1 tb Oil
      1 tb Rum
      3 tb Lime juice
 
  Beat shortening for a few seconds.  Add brown sugar & beat till well
  blended & creamy.  Stir in vinegar, bananas, water & lime juice.
  Ensure that all ingredients are well mixed.  Add salt, ginger &
  grated coconut. Mix well.  Stir in baking powder.  Sift flour & beat
  with a wooden spoon till well blended & smooth.  Transfer into a
  greased loaf pan & bake at 350F for 1 hour.  Let cool for 10 minutes
  before removing from pan to a wire rack.
  
  Meanwhile, combine brown sugar, oil, rum & lime juice in a snall pot
  over a low heat.  Stir constantly for 5 minutes until you have a thin
  syrup. Pour over the loaf, spreading it with a spatula, let it run
  over the sides.
  
  By Mark Satterly, Adapted from "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana-Coconut Bake (Akwadu)
 Categories: Dessert, Misc/food
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 md Bananas
      1 tb Margarine or butter
    1/3 c  Orange juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Brown sugar, packed
    2/3 c  Shredded coconut
 
  Heat oven to 375F. Cut bananas crosswise into halves. Cut each half
  lengthwise into halves and arrange in greased 9-inch pie plate. Dot
  with margarine and drizzle with orange and lemon juices. Sprinkle
  with brown sugar and coconut. Bake until coconut is golden, 8 to 10
  minutes.
  
  BETTY CROCKER REGIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL RECIPES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana-Pineapple Kabobs
 Categories: Vegetarian, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ea Whole vanilla bean
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Margarine, optional
      1 pn Salt, optional
      4 ea Bananas
    1/2 sm Pineapple
 
  Slit vanilla bean lengthwise & scrape out sticky black seeds.  Place
  seeds & pod in small heavy bottomed pot along with remaining
  ingredients except fruit.  Bring to a boil, stirring constantly.
  Reduce heat & simmer for 2 to 3 minutes.  Stir till sugar has
  dissolved.  Remove from heat.  If glaze hardens, reheat before using.
  
  Prepare grill.  Peel bananas; peel & core pineapple.  Cut into
  bite-sized pieces.  Alternate bananas & pineapple on skewers.  Place
  skewers on hot grill & cook 5 to 10 minutes, turning once.  When hot,
  baste with glaze, two or three times.  Turn & baste again.
  
  PER SERVING: 139 Cal.; 0.8g Prot.; 0.4g Fat; 33g Carb.; 0 Chol.; 6mg
  Sod.; 2g Fiber.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Tempeh
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  8 1/2 oz Tempeh, cut to small cubes
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Fennel
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Coriander
      1 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ea Green pepper, chopped
      2 tb Tamari
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Molasses
      2 tb Cider vinegar
      1 tb Mustard powder
      6 tb Tomato paste
      1 c  Water
      4 ds Tobasco sauce
 
  Saute onions, garlic & spices till onions soften.  Add peppers &
  tempeh chunks & continue to saute for 5 minutes or so.  Transfer to a
  shallow baking pan.
  
  Whisk together the sauce ingredients (tamari, lemon juice, molasses,
  vinegar, mustard, paste & water).  Add to the vegetables. Bake for 30
  minutes at 350F for 30 minutes covered & then for 30 minutes
  uncovered. Stir frequently throughout.
  
  Serve on rice with coleslaw or stuff into pita.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley Bread
 Categories: Bread, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  4 1/2 ts Dry yeast
      2 c  Warm water
      2 tb Honey
      2 c  Barley flour
      2 c  Wholewheat flour
      2 c  Unbleached white flour
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Salt
 
  Dissolve yeast in warm water & place in large mixing bowl.  Stir in
  honey & leave till yeast becomes foamy.  Combine the three flours &
  add half to the yeast.  Beat with a wooden spoon for 10 minutes.  The
  consistency should be of thick mud.  Cover & set aside to rise for 1
  hour, till the dough has doubled.
  
  Punch dough down & carefully fold in olive oil, salt & 1/2 c remaining
  flour.  Gradually fold in more flour till dough starts to come away
  from the sides of the bowl.  Place dough on a lightly floured surface
  & knead well for 10 minutes.  Add more flour as necessary.  Place
  dough in a lightly oiled mixing bowl.  Cover & leave to double.
  
  Ounch dough down again & shape into 2 domed round loaves.  Cut a
  cross in the centre.  Place on an oiled baking sheet, cover & let
  rise till doubled, 45 to 60 minutes.
  
  Bake at 350F for 50 minutes.
  
  Paolo Gavin, "Italian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean and Cashew Nut Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Dried lima beans
           -- soaked overnight  OR...
     30 oz -canned lima beans
      1 c  Blackeye peas
           -- freshly cooked or canned
      2    Celery sticks
           -- finely chopped
      1 sm Red sweet pepper
           -- seeded and finely chopped
      2 tb Roasted cashew nuts
           -- (Or more to taste)
      2    Green onions; chopped
      1 tb Tomato sauce (ketchup)
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
           Salt and pepper; to taste
    1/4 ts Cumin or jeera, ground
      3 tb Balsamic or wine vinegar
      6 tb Olive oil
 
  In a large bowl, mix the drained beans with the celery and sweet
  pepper. Roast the cashew nuts, in a dry frying pan, until browned.
  Put on paper towels and allow to cool.  When cool, toss into the
  beans with the green onions.  Mix the tomato sauce, garlic, salt,
  pepper, cumin, vinegar and olive oil together well.  Pour over the
  beans and mix well.  Allow to stand for about an hour, before serving.
  
  Source: Caribbean and African Cooking, by Rosamund Grant Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Curd Rolls
 Categories: Vegetarian, Chinese, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Uncooked shortgrain rice
      6 ea Dried shiitake mushrooms
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 sm Carrot, cut into 1" slivers
      3 ea Asparagus tips, cut into
           --1/2" pieces, diagonally
    1/4 c  Slivered bamboo shoots
    1/4 c  Ginkgo nuts, optional
      2 ea Pitted dates, chopped
      2 ea Green onions, sliced
      1 tb Hoisin suce
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 ts Rice wine/dry sherry
      2 ts Sesame oil
      6 ea Dried bean curd sheets,
           -- soaked for a few minutes
      1 tb Flour mixed with 1 tb water
      6 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Cover rice with warm water & soak for 30 minutes.  Drain.  Line the
  inside of a steamer with a damp cheesecloth.  Place rice on
  cheesecloth.  Then cover & steam the rice over boiling water for 30
  minutes.  Set aside.
  
  Meanwhile, cover mushrooms with warm water & soak for 30 minutes.
  Drain well. Cut off & discard stems.  Thinly slice caps.  Set aside.
  
  Place a wok over high heat till hot.  Add oil, swirling to coat
  sides. Add garlic & cook, stirring for 10 seconds.  Add carrot &
  asparagus & stir fry for 2 minutes.  Add reserved mushrooms, bamboo
  shoots, nuts, dates, onions, hoisin sauce, soy sauce, rice wine or
  sherry & sesame oil.  Stir fry for 2 minutes.  Add rice & mix well.
  Transfer to a bowl & set aside.
  
  To make rolls, spread about 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of filling
  diagonally across a bean curd sheet.  Keep remaining sheets covered
  to prevent drying. Fold bottom corner over filling to cover, then
  fold over right & left corners.  Roll over once to enclose filling.
  Brush sides & top of triangle with flour & water mixture.  Fold over
  to seal.  Cover filled rolls with a damp clot while preparing the
  rest of the rolls.
  
  Place a non-stick frying pan over medium heat.  Add 1 to 2 tb oil.
  Add rolls two at a time & cook for 2 minutes on each side, or till
  golden brown.  Transfer to a heat proof dish & keep warm in a 200F
  oven while cooking remaining rolls.
  
  To serve, cut each roll into thirds.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" February, 1992.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Curd with Chinese Parsley
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2    Hot Italian peppers
    1/2 sm Sweet red bell pepper
      1 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Oil
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 lb Medium bean curd, cubed
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Chopped Chinese parsley
 
  Slice hot peppers into long strips.  Mix cornstarch with 1/4 cup
  water. Heat oil in a wok.  When hot, add hot pepper & fry for 30
  seconds.  Slice & fry sweet peppers in the same way.
  
  Add cubes of tofu.  Drizzle in soy sauce & add cornstarch mixture.
  Scatter the parsley over the top.  Turn the heat up slightly & cookk
  till sauce thickens.  Serve hot.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "World of the East Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Curd with Broccoli
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
    3/4 c  Stock
      1 tb Dry sherry
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 ea Scallion
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      2 sl Ginger root
      2 ea Garlic cloves, sliced
      2 c  Broccoli, florets & stems
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 lb Medium tofu, cubed
 
  Put cornstarch into a cup  & slowly add 1/4 c of stock & mix well.
  Add wine, soy sauce & sesame oil.  Mix again.
  
  Cut scallion into 1 1/2" lengths.  Heat vegetable oil in a wok over
  medium heat.  When hot, put in ginger & garlic.  Stir & fry for 10
  seconds.  Put in scallion & broccoli.  Fry for 1 minute.  Add 1/2 c
  stock & the salt. Bring to a simmer.  Cover & cook over a medium heat
  for a minute, till broccoli is tender crisp.  Remove broccoli with a
  slotted spoon.  Turn heat to low & add tofu.  Let it heat through.
  Add cornstarch mixture. Stir very gently.  Put broccoli back in wok.
  Serve as soon as the sauce is thick & everything is heated through.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey "World of the East Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Curd with Pineapple
 Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Bean curd
      1 lg Can of pineapple chunks
      1 ts Cornflour
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Dry sherry
           Oil
      1 ea Green onion, chopped
      1 c  Bean sprouts
 
  Cut drained bean curd into small cubes.  Drain syrup from the
  pineapple, retaining 1 tb of it.  Dissolve cornflour in this.  Stir
  in sherry & soy sauce.  Add bean curd & let stand for 15 minutes.
  
  Heat oil in a wok & stir fry the marinated bean curd till the liquid
  has been absorbed.  Remove & drain.  Add a little more oil & stir-fry
  the green onion, bean sprouts & pineapple for 1 minute.  Add bean
  curd, cook for 2 minutes.  Serve with boiled rice.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Curd with Ginger
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 ea Pads tofu
      8 ea Tree ears
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Finely chopped ginger
  1 1/2 tb Finely chopped garlic
    3/4 c  Chopped scallions
      1 ts Hot chilies, chopped
    1/2 c  Cooked fresh peas
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Sesame oil
 
  Cut tofu into 1/2 inch cubes.  Soak tree ears in warm water till soft.
  Drain & chop coarsely.  Heat oil in a wok & when very hot add ginger,
  garlic & scallions.  Add tofu, stirring quickly.  Add tree ears,
  chilies & peas.  Stir.  Add sugar & vinegar & toss. Spoon mixture
  into a serving dish & sprinkle with sesame oil.  Serve over rice.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Moussaka
 Categories: Main dish, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked legumes
      4 ea Tomatoes, chopped
      4 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ea Onion, chopped
           Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 ts Sage
      2 c  Water or stock
      1 lg Eggplant
      2 lg Potatoes
      1 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Ghee
      2 tb Flour
  2 1/2 c  Soya Milk
      1 pn Nutmeg
      1 ts Allspice
 
  Put beans in a pot with the tomatoes, garlic, onion, 1 ts salt,
  pepper & sage.  Add 2 c stock & allow to simmer for 10 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, cut eggplant & potatoes into rounds.  Deep fry the
  eggplant in olive oil until they begin to turn golden.  Do the same
  with the potatoes. Set aside.
  
  Now make the white sauce.  In a small pot, gently heat the ghee.
  Gradually stir in the flour followed by the milk.  Add a pinch of
  salt, pepper & nutmeg.  Simmer gently for 1 minute.
  
  Grease the base & sides of a casserole.  Put in a layer of potatoes,
  then eggplant, then the beans.  Space out the allspice berries here.
  Cover with sauce.
  
  Bake at 375F for about 30 minutes, or until the crust is golden.
  
  Adapted from Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Stew with Fennel and Tomatoes
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Dried cannellini beans
           - rinsed
      4 c  Vegetable stock or broth
      1    Bay leaf
      6    Garlic cloves
           - unpeeled, crushed slightly
      2 lg Bulbs fennel
    1/2 c  -Olive oil, -OR- up to:
    2/3 c  Olive oil
           -Pref. Greek extra virgin
      5 c  Peeled, seeded, tomatoes *
           -(*chopped), with juice
           -fresh or canned
      1 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1    Lemon; juiced
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Preparation Time: 25 minutes Soaking Time: several hours Cooking
  Time: 1 hour
  
  1. Soak beans in a large bowl of water to cover for several hours or
  overnight.  Drain.
  
  2. Place soaked beans into a pot with stock or broth and enough water
  to cover by 2 inches.  Add bay leaf and whole garlic cloves.  Heat to
  a boil, reduce heat to medium-low and simmer, covered, until beans
  are tender (about 45 minutes).  (The beans should be softer than al
  dente but not cooked to the point where they begin to disintegrate.)
  Don't drain beans until fennel and tomato sauce is cooked.
  
  3. Meanwhile, cut stalks off fennel bulb.  Chop the feathery leaves
  and reserve.  Trim off root end of the bulbs; cut bulbs in half
  lengthwise and slice thinly.  There should be about 8 cups of fennel
  slices. Discard stalks or save for soup.  Heat 1/3 cup olive oil in a
  large heavy skillet; cook fennel over medium-low heat until wilted
  and translucent, about 10-12 minutes.  Do this in batches if
  necessary.
  
  4. Add tomato to fennel; cook 5 or 6 minutes.  Discard garlic and bay
  leaf from beans; drain beans.  Add beans to the skillet, tossing
  gently to combine all the ingredients.  Add parsley and chopped
  fennel leaves. Season with salt and pepper.  Remove from heat, add
  lemon juice and remaining olive oil to taste.  Serve warm or at room
  temperature.
  
  Yield: 6 to 8 Servings
  
  Adapted from "Chicago Tribune Food Guide", 4 March 1993 by Diane
  Kochlias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Greek
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 ea Onions, chopped
      4 ea Garlic cloves
      2 lb Runner beans, trimmed &
           -- sliced
      1 lb Tomatoes, chopped
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Basil
      2 c  Stock
 
  Heat oil in a pot & fry the onion for 2 minutes.  add garlic & fry
  together.  Add the rest of the ingredients & the seasonings.  Mix
  together well.  Fry for 5 minutes.  Add stock.  Simer till the beans
  are tender. Serve hot or cold.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beans with Thyme & Cashew Nuts
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Green beans
      3 tb Sunflower oil
      3 oz Cashew nuts
      1 ea Garlic clove, chopped
      1 tb Chopped thyme
 
  Slice beans.  Boil them in lightly salted water until they are just
  tender. Drain them.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet over medium heat.  Put in the cashew nuts & stir
  until they are golden brown.  Remove from the skillet.  Increase the
  heat. Put in the beans & garlic.  Stir until the garlic begins to
  brown.  Mix in the nuts & thyme & remove the pan from the heat.
  
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bengali Spinach
 Categories: Vegetable, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Raw almonds
      2 c  Warm water
      3 tb Ghee
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
    1/2 ts Whole cumin seeds
    1/4 ts Fenugreek
  1 1/2 tb Brown sugar
    1/2 tb Grated ginger
      1 ts Minced green chilies
      2 lb Trimmed fresh spinach
    1/3 c  Shredded coconut
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Water
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
 
  Soak nuts in warm water for 4 hours or overnight.  Drain, wash & drain
  again.
  
  Heat ghee in a large pot over moderate heat.  When hot, but not
  smoking, add the spice seeds & sugar.  Fry till the seeds darken &
  the sugar caramelizes.  Add the ginger, chilies, spinach, nuts,
  coconut & salt. Cover, reduce heat to low & cook for 10 minutes.
  Uncover, gently turn the spinach over.  Add water if necessary.  Cook
  for a further 10 minutes.
  
  Stir in the nutmeg & heat through for 1 to 2 minutes.  Garnish with
  lemon & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Berbere
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Misc/food
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ts Whole cumin seeds
      4 ea Whole cloves
    3/4 ts Black cardamom seeds
    1/2 ts Whole black peppercorns
    1/4 ts Whole allspice
      1 ts Fenugreek seeds
    1/2 ts Whole coriander seeds
     10 sm Dried red chilies
    1/2 ts Grated ginger
    1/4 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Salt
  2 1/2 tb Sweet Hungarian paprika
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
 
  In a small frying pan, on a low heat, toast cumin, cloves, cardamom,
  peppercorns, allspice, fenugreek & corainder for about 2 minutes,
  stirring constantly.  Remove from heat & cool for 5 minutes.
  
  Discard stems from chilies.  In a spice grinder or with a mortar &
  pestle, finely grind together the toasted spices & chilies.  Mix in
  remaining ingredients.
  
  Store in refrigerator in a well sealed jar.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bhindi Masala
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish, Indian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
     10 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 ea Fresh green chilies, chopped
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Cumin, ground
      3 lb Okra
           Salt
 
  Heat oil in large pot.  Add onion, garlic & chilies.  Fry over medium
  heat till browned.  Stir in turmeric & cumin & fry for 2 minutes.
  Mix in okra & salt.  Cover, reduce heat & simmer for 8 to 10 minutes,
  stirring occasionally to prevent burning.  Serve hot with plain rice
  or chapatis.
  
  Rani, "Feast of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bhindi Sabji
 Categories: Vegetable, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh okra
      3 tb Ghee
  1 1/2 tb Coriander
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Hungarian paprika
    1/2 ts Garam masala
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Salt
 
  Wash & thoroughly dry okra.  Trim the bottom & top & slice into
  rounds half an inch thick.
  
  In a large skillet, heat the ghee & add the okra in a single layer.
  Cook over a moderate heat for 20 minutes.  Stir occasionally.  Add
  the spices & continue to stir & fry till the okra is golden brown.
  Remove from the heat, sprinkle with salt & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "the Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Chili with Toasted Spice Seasoning
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Dried black beans, soaked
      8 c  Water
      2 ea Jalapeno peppers, minced
  1 1/2 tb Grated ginger
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 c  Chopped cilantro
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      2 tb Chili powder
    1/2 tb Oregano
    1/2 c  Sun-dried tomatoes
      4 c  Peeled, chopped plum tomatos
    1/3 c  Uncooked bulgur wheat
    1/2 c  Boiling water
           Salt & pepper
           ---------SEASONING----------
    1/2 tb Mustard seeds
    1/2 ts Fennel seeds
 
  Drain beans.  Place in a large pot & add 8 c water.  Bring to a boil.
  Add peppers, ginger, bay leaf & 1/2 c cilantro.  Cover & simmer for 1
  1/2 to 2 hours.  Remove from heat & discard bay leaf.
  
  Place cumin seeds in a pot & toast.  When seeds darken, add chili
  powder, oregano, tomatoes.  Stir well & bring mixture to a boil.
  Reduce heat & simmer for 30 minutes.  In another bowl, combine bulgur
  with boiling water, cover & let sit for 10 minutes.
  
  When beans are cooked, remove 1 c & puree it with some cooking liquid.
  Combine puree with remaining beans.  Stir in tomato mixture & bulgur.
  Season & simer for 10 minutes.
  
  Place mustard seeds in a pot over medium heat, cover & cook till seeds
  start to pop.  Add fennel seeds & cover.  Cook till popping stops &
  fennel darkens.  Pour over chili.  Add remaining cilantro & drizzle
  with olive oil.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Burritos
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      8 oz Black Beans; Dry*, OR
     30 oz Black Beans; Canned
      1 md Onion; Finely Chopped
      2    Garlic Cloves; Minced
      1    Jalapeno Pepper; Seeded And
           -Finely Chopped, Up To Two
           -Can Be Used Or To Taste
      1 ts Chili Powder
      1 ts Ground Cumin
      5 tb Olive Or Vegetable Oil
     16 oz Tomatoes; Cut Up, 1 Can
      1    1/4-Inch Thick Lemon Slice
      1 ts Dried Oregano; Crushed
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ds Hot Pepper Sauce; (Optional)
      6    Flour Tortillas

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Salsa
           Guacamole
           Chopped Tomato; (Optional)
           Snipped Cilantro
 
  Cook the dry beans*.  Rinse and drain the cooked or canned beans and
  set aside.  In a 4 1/2-quart Dutch oven, cook the onion, garlic,
  peppers, chili powder and cumin in hot oil, until tender, stirring
  occasionally. Stir in the drained beans, the UNDRAINED tomatoes,
  lemon, oregano, salt (omit if using the canned beans), and pepper
  sauce, if desired.  Bring to boiling, reduce the heat, and simmer,
  uncovered, about 15 minutes or until thick. Remove the lemon.  In a
  blender container or food processor bowl, place one third of the
  mixture, cover, and blend until smooth.  Repeat with the remaining
  beans.  Return to the pan and heat through.  In the meantime, wrap
  the tortillas in foil and warm in a 350 Degree F. oven for about 10
  minutes.  Place about 1/2 Cup of the bean mixture onto each tortilla.
  and fold the edges over to form a packet.  Serve with salsa and
  guacamole If desired, top with chopped tomato and snipped cilantro.
  
  * TO COOK THE DRY BEANS:
  
  To cook the dry beans in a 4 1/2-quart Dutch oven, combine the beans
  and enough water to cover.  Bring to boiling then reduce  the heat
  and simmer, uncovered, for 2 minutes.  Remove from the heat, cover,
  and let stand for 1 hour.  (Or without cooking, soak the beans
  overnight.)  Drain the beans and rinse.  In the same Dutch oven
  combine the beans and 5 cups of water or vegetable broth.  Bring to
  boiling, reduce the heat, cover and simmer for 1 to 1 1/2 hours or
  until tender.
  
  Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Quesadillas
 Categories: Main dish, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     15 oz Can black beans, drained
    1/4 c  Chopped tomato
      3 tb Chopped cilantro
     12 ea Black olives, pitted, sliced
      8 ea 6" wholewheat tortillas
      4 oz Soy cheese/jalapeno jack,
           -- shredded
     32 ea Spinach leaves, shredded
      4 tb Hot salsa
 
  Mash beans.  Stir in tomato, cilantro & olives.  Spread evenly onto 4
  tortillas.  Sprinkle with cheese, spinach & salsa.  Top with remaining
  tortillas.
  
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Bake tortillas on ungreased cookie sheet for 12
  minutes.  Cut into wedges & serve.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean with Peppers & Cumin Vinaigrette
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Dried black beans, soaked
      4 c  Water
      1 ea Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 ea Clove garlic, minced
    1/4 ts Cumin
      1 ts Hot pepper sauce
      1 tb Chopped cilantro
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ea Red pepper, diced
    1/2 ea Yellow pepper, diced
    1/2 ea Green pepper, diced
      1 ea Red onion, diced
      4 ea Scallion, thinly sliced
 
  Drain beans & rinse well.  Put in a large pot with the water & bay
  leaf. Bring to a boil & simmer for 1 to 1 1/2 hours.  Drain.
  
  Combine salt, vinegar, garlic, cumin, hot pepper sauce, cilantro &
  olive oil in a small bowl.  Pour over warm beans.  Toss well.  Add
  reemaining ingredients.  Toss gently, garnish with fresh cilantro &
  serve at room temperature.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Salad with Oranges
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 ea Red onion, chopped
    1/2 ea Red bell pepper, diced
    1/2 ea Yellow bell pepper, diced
      1 ts Cumin
      2 ts Coriander
           Juice of 4 limes
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 ea Jalapeno pepper, minced
      2 c  Cooked black beans
      1 tb Cilantro
      2 ea Oranges, peeled, sectioned
 
  Combine first nine ingredients in order in large bowl.  Toss on beans
  & oranges.  Mix to coat.  Season to taste with salt & pepper.
  
  "The Hamilton Spectator" August, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Beans with Bean Curd
 Categories: Chinese, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Dried red beans
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Brown sugar
      1 c  Stock
      2 ea Cakes tofu
      2 tb Oil
      1 ea Green onion, chopped
      1 ts Garlic, chopped
      1 ea Green chili, sliced
      1 tb Salted black beans
      1 pn Black pepper
 
  Soak dried beans.  Boil until tender.  Drain & mash.
  
  Stir sugar & soy sauce into the sock & mix with mashed beans.  Cut
  tofu into small cubes.  Heat oil & stir fry gren onions, garlic &
  chili for 30 seconds.  Add black beans, tofu & mashed red beans.
  Cook gently for 5 minutes.  Sprinkle with pepper & serve.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Chili Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  -Water
    1/2 c  Quinoa; rinsed
      2 c  Black bean flakes
  1 1/2 c  -Boiling water
      2 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 c  Fresh cilantro, chopped
      2    Green onions; chopped
    1/2 c  Red bell pepper, chopped
    1/2 c  Plain bread crumbs
    3/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Vegetable oil

MMMMM---------------------OPTIONAL GARNISHES--------------------------
      2 c  Lettuce; shredded
      1 c  Grated lo-fat cheddar cheese
           -OR cheddar-style soy cheese
    1/2 c  Nonfat sour cream
      1 c  Bottled salsa
           Avocado; diced
           Ripe olives, sliced
           Green onions; chopped
 
  Bring 1 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan.  Add quinoa, cover
  and simmer 15 minutes.
  
  Place black bean flakes in a medium-sized bowl.  Stir in boiling
  water. Cover and let stand 5 minutes.
  
  Combine 1/2 cup cooked quinoa with black beans, chili powder, cumin,
  cilantro, green onions, red bell pepper, bread crumbs and salt.  Mix
  well. Lightly flour hands and divide mixture into six equal balls.
  Flatten each ball into a 1/4-inch-thick cake.
  
  Heat oil in a nonstick skillet.  Cook each bean cake about 2 minutes
  each side.  Serve topped with lettuce, cheese, nonfat sour cream,
  salsa and other garnishes, as desired.
  
  Calories per serving: 168 Grams of fat: 3 Percent fat calories: 16
  Cholesterol: 0 mg Grams of fiber: 5.2
  
  Source: Delicious! magazine - May/June 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Eyed Beans with Basil Sambuca Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           ----------DRESSING----------
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
           Juice of 1 lemon
      1 ts Balsamic vinegar
      2 tb Sambuca liqueur
      2 tb Fresh basil, chopped
      1 ts Black pepper
           -----------SALAD------------
      2 c  Cooked black eyed peas
    1/2 ea White onion, chopped
    1/2 ea Red bell pepper, diced
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil
 
  Combine ingredients for dressing.  Mix with sald ingredients & rest at
  least half an hour before serving.  Season if desired.
  
  Adapted from "The Hamilton Spectator" August, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bonjan Salat (Spicy Eggplant Salad)
 Categories: Asian, Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 md Eggplants
  2 1/2 ts Coarse (kosher salt)
    1/4 c  Corn oil
  1 1/2 c  Tomato sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Hot red chili flakes,
           - or minced fresh chiles
      2 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 tb Crushed dried mint
 
  Slice the eggplants crosswise into 1 1/2 inch thick pieces. Sprinkle
  them with 2 t. coarse salt and let stand for 15 minutes. rinse
  eggplants under cold water, which removes the bitter taste, rinse,
  and dry well on a towel. Heat the oil in a skillet and lightly brown
  eggplant slices over moderate heat for 3 minutes. Remove and put into
  a serving bowl. Cool. Put the tomato sauce, pepper, chile, cinnamon,
  mint and 1/2 t. salt, if wanted, in a pan. Simmer over low heat for
  10 minutes, which is long enough to integrate the flavors. Pour this
  over the eggplant; refrigerate until ready to use. The salad can
  remain in the refrigerator for several days. Serve cold or at room
  temperature.
  
  FROM:    NANCY BERRY   (CWBJ78A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Leeks & Mushrooms
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      1 ts Olive oil
      5 c  Thinly sliced leeks
      1 c  Thinly sliced shiitakes
      1 ts Fresh orange juice
    1/2 ts Grated orange peel
      1 tb Apple cider vinegar
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  In a large skillet, over medium heat, combine sherry & oil.  Heat to
  simmering.  Add leeks, stirring frequently for 3 minutes.  Add
  mushrooms & saute for 5 minutes.  Stir in orange juice, peel &
  vinegar.  Remove from heat.  Add seasonings & serve warm.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" November, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Red Onions
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 oz Butter/margarine
      4 lg Red onions, thinly sliced
           Salt & freshly ground black
           -- pepper
 
  Melt the butter in heavy-based pot over a moderate heat.  Add the
  onions & cook gently till translucent. Season, then cover & simmer
  over a very low heat for 20 minutes.  Stir & transfer to a warmed
  serving dish.
  
  Sally Anne Scott, "Versatile Vegetables & Salads"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Spicy Eggplant
 Categories: Vegetable, Asian, Chinese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Eggplants,
      2 ts Salt
      1 tb Oil
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Finely chopped ginger root
      2 tb Finely chopped scallions
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Dried chile bean sauce, -OR-
      1    -dried red chile
      1 tb Bean sauce
      1 tb Granulated sugar
  1 1/3 c  Water
      2 ts Chopped scallions (optional)
 
  ROLL-CUT THE CHINESE EGGPLANTS or, if using the regular large
  variety, trim and cut them into 1-inch cubes. Sprinkle the cubes with
  salt and leave in a sieve to drain for 20 minutes, then rinse under
  cold running water and pat them dry with paper towels. Heat a wok or
  large skillet to a moderate heat. Add the oil and let it heat up for
  a few seconds, then add the eggplant, garlic, ginger and scallions
  and stir-fry for 1 minute, until they are thoroughly mixed together.
  Now add the rest of the ingredients except for the scallions. Turn
  the heat down and cook, uncovered, for 10 to 15 minutes, until the
  eggplant is tender, stirring occasionally. Return the heat to high
  and continue to stir until the liquid has been reduced and has
  thickened slightly. Turn the mixture onto a serving dish and garnish
  with the chopped scallion tops.
  
  Ken Hom, "Prodigy Guest Chefs Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brilliant Beet Dip
 Categories: Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Beets; soft cooked, peeled
           - and cut into chunks
      4 oz Soft tofu; drained
      1 tb Apple cider vinegar
           -(Or more, to taste)
      2 tb Minced shallots
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
    1/2 ts Dried tarragon
 
  Puree ingredients (using 1 tablespoon vinegar) in a food processor or
  blender until smooth. Adjust seasonings, adding more vinegar and salt
  to taste. Serve immediately or refrigerate in tightly sealed
  container for up to 3 days. Makes about 2 cups.
  
  Source: Lorna Sass, Cooking From An Ecological Kitchen (William
  Morrow)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brownies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Oil
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 tb White vinegar
      1 c  Cold water
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  White sugar
      2 tb Cocoa powder
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  White flour
    1/2 c  Walnuts, chopped
 
  Mix together the oil, vanilla, vinegar & cold water.  Add the baking
  soda & mix well.  Beat in the sugar, cocoa powder & salt.  Finally,
  fold in the flour.  Only do enough mixing to ensure that the
  ingredients are well blended.  Pour into baking dish.  Bake for 30
  minutes at 350F.  When cool, cut into squares.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brussel Sprouts in Pecan Sauce
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Brussel sprouts; trimmed wi
      3 tb Margarine
    1/4 c  Pecans; chopped
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  1. Cook the brussel sprouts, covered in boiling salted water until
  tender, about 10 minutes. Drain. Keep warm. 2. Heat the butter in
  small saucepan and brown the pecans;do not let them burn. Pour the
  pecans over the Brussel Sprouts and eat. Serves 4 to 6.
  
  "Greene on Greens"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buckwheat Bake
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Onion
      4    Tomatoes
    1/2 ts Oil
      3 oz Buckwheat
      1 oz Rice
    1/2 pt Water
      1 ts Dried Basil
           Salt/pepper as you deem fit
 
  1.Chop onion, heat oil in pan and fry until transparent 2.Chop
  tomatoes, add to onions until soft 3.Stir in buckwheat and rice and
  cook for 1 minute 4.Add remaining ingredients - bring to boil 5.Heat
  oven to 375F/190C/Gas Mark 5 6.Simmer the mixture for 20 minutes
  until liquid has been absorbed 7.Adjust seasoning, turn into 7"
  square cake tin 8.Put in 5. above, leave for 30 minutes then remove.
  From: Pat Buttons
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bulghur Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Beef
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      4 c  Water
      2 c  Bulghur
      2 tb Oil
      1    Onion, diced
      2    Beets, grated
      2    Carrots, diced
    1/2    Head cabbage, chopped fine
      3 tb Tamari
      1 ts Garlic powder
 
   In a large pot, heat the water to a boil. Add the bulghur, reduce
  heat, and cook for 20 minutes, until the bulghur is soft anf the
  water is absorbed. Set aside.
  
   Preheat oven to 350. Heat the oil in a large skillet, over
  medium-high heat; add the onions and saute for 3 minutes. Add the
  beets, carrots and cabbage, and saute for 7 minutes more. Add the
  seasonings. Remove from heat and combine with the bulghur.
  
   Shape the batter into burgers to fit buns. Place on oiled cookie
  sheet, and bake for 20 minutes; turn over and bake for 29 minutes
  more.
  
   Makes 1 1/2 to 2 dozen.
  
   From _The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals_ from Gentle World
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bulgur and Lentil Pilaf
 Categories: Side dish, Misc/food
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Lentils
      4 c  Vegetable broth or water
      1 ea Bay leaf
      3 tb Margarine
      1 lg Onion, chopped
           Salt & pepper
      1 c  Coarsely ground bulgur
 
  Rinse the lentils & put in a pot with enough broth to cover.  Add bay
  leaf, bring to a boil & keep covered.  Turn off heat & let stand for
  30 minutes.
  
  While the lentils are soaking, melt margarine in a heavy pot.  Add
  chopped onion, salt & pepper.  Saute till onions are tender &
  transparent.
  
  When onions are ready, keep heat at medium, stir in bulgur & continue
  stirring till all the margarine is absorbed.  Lower heat to a simmer
  & add the rest of the broth & lentils in their broth.  Bring to a
  boil, reduce heat again, cover tightly & simmer till all the liquid
  has been absorbed. Add more liquid till the bulgur & lentils are
  cooked.  Remove bay leaf & serve with a vegetable stew.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage & Dumpling Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 lb Frim tofu
      4 tb Water
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/8 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 md Head cabbage
      1 tb Corn oil
      8 c  Boiling water
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 tb Soy sauce
           Chopped scallions
 
  Dumplings:  Blend tofu with water till smooth.  Sift dry ingredients.
  Stir in tofu mixture.  Knead for 1 minute, form into 1/2" balls & set
  aside.
  
  Soup:  Mince core of cabbage & shred leaves finely.  Heat oil in soup
  pot. Add cabbage & saute over medium heat til golden.  Add water &
  bay leaf. Return to a boil, add dumplings, cover & simmer for 15 to
  20 minutes.  The dumplings should be floating on the top at this
  point.  Remove bay leaf. Dilute soy sauce in a bit of the broth, add
  to the soup. Simmer for another 5 minutes.  Serve, garnishing with
  scallions.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Cooked with Bean Curd
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lg Shiitake mushrooms
      2 ea Cakes medium tofu
      1 lb Cabbage, sliced
      3 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Soy sauce
      1 ts Mirin sauce
 
  Soak mushrooms in 3/4 c hot water for 1/2 hour.  Put tofu onto a paper
  towel & leave to drain for 30 minutes.
  
  Remove mushrooms from water, reserve liquid.  Cut off & discard stems.
  Slice caps into 1/4" wide strips.
  
  Heat oil in an 8" skillet.  When hot, put in cabbage & mushrooms.
  Stir & fry for 1 minute, till cabbage wilts.  Reduce heat to medium.
  Crumble tofu & it to the skillet.  Add salt, soy sauce & mirin.  Stir
  & fry for another 5 minutes.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey "World of the East Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Red Beans and Rice
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Red kidney beans, soaked
      2    Bay leaves
  1 1/2 c  Onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Thyme
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
    3/4 c  Fresh parsley, minced
      1 c  Diced green bell pepper
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Red miso
      4 c  Freshly cooked brown rice
           Chopped scallions to garnish
 
  Rinse beans & drain well.  Cook in 5 cups of water for 50 minutes or
  until tender, with the bay leaves.
  
  Add onion, thyme, garlic, parsley, green pepper & salt to pot, simmer
  over medium low heat for 15 to 20 minutes.  Add miso & simmer for
  another 5 minutes.  Remove bay leaves.
  
  Serve over hot rice, garnished with scallions.
  
  "Quick & Natural Rice Dishes"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cannelini Salad
 Categories: Italian, Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     15 oz Can canelini beans, drained
           Grated zest of 1 lemon
           Juice of 1 lemon
      1 bn Fresh parsley, chopped
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 ts Fresh rosemary, minced
      2 ea Fresh sage leaves, chopped
      2 tb Nicoise olives, pitted &
           -- chopped
           Salt & pepper to taste
      6 ea Leaves butter lettuce
 
  Combine all ingredients in a bowl except lettuce.  Toss well & chill
  for at least an hour, preferably overnight.  To serve, place a scoop
  of bean salad in each lettuce leaf.
  
  PER SERVING: 91 Cal.; 5g Prot.; 0.1g Fat; 18g Carb.; 0 Chol.; 185mg
  Sod.; 3mg Fiber.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Capetown Fruit & Vegetable Curry
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Coarsely chopped onions
      2 tb Peanut oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 ts Grated fresh ginger
  1 1/2 tb Ground cumin seeds
  1 1/2 tb Ground coriander seeds
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/2 ts Ground fennel seeds
    1/4 ts Black cardamom
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      2 md Zucchini, quartered & sliced
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Green beans
      2 ea Firm, tart apples, cored &
           -- cubed
    1/2 ea Red bell pepper
      1 c  Chopped dried apricots
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Strawberry conserve
           Fresh lemon juice
 
  Saute the onions in the peanut oil for 10 minutes.  Stir in the
  garlic, ginger & curry spices & continue to saute, stirring
  constantly for 3 minutes.
  
  Add the zucchini & water & stir well so that the spices won't stick
  to the pot.  Cover & simmer for 10 minutes.  Mix in the green beans,
  apple, peppers & dried apricots.  Simmer gently, covered for about 30
  minutes. Stir occasionally & add a little more water if needed to
  prevent sticking. When the fruit & vegetables are quite tender, stir
  in the raisins, the conserve & the lemon juice.  Taste & adjust to
  your liking if necessary. If you need it to be more spicy, add more
  cayenne or garam masala.  If you want it sweeter, add more conserve.
  Tarter, add more lemon juice.
  
  Serve on a bed of rice, topped with nuts & banana.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carol Potter's Noodles with Peanut Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------FROM TV GUIDE 05/08-14------------------------

MMMMM----------------CONTAINS SMALL AMOUNT OF OIL---------------------
      8 oz Japanese buckwheat noodles,
           --Thin
    1/4 c  Smooth peanut butter or
           --Tahini
      5 tb Black chinese tea, brewed
      5 ts Soy sauce
      1 ts Chili oil
      2 ts Sesame oil
      2 ts Rice wine vinegar
      2 ts Granulated sugar
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      1    Scallion, finely chopped
 
  In a large pot, boil noodles until tender (follow directions on
  package). Drain well, rinse with cold water, and set aside to cool.
  In a large bowl, mix peanut butter or tahini with tea. Add the soy
  sauce, chili oil, sesame oil, vinegar, sugar, and garlic to peanut
  butter mixture. Pour mixture over noodles and toss until well
  blended. Sprinkle with chopped scallions and serve at room
  temperature as an appetizer or side dish.
  
  M.CLIFT [MARE/RICK]          at 23:20 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot & Raspberry Preserve
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 kg Carrots, peeled & sliced
      1 kg Rhubarb, thinly sliced
      1 kg Sugar, warmed
 
  Place carrots in a pot with enough water to cover.  Bring to a boil,
  covered & cook till tender.  Drain, reserving 1/2 cup of liquid.
  Puree carrots & liquid.  Transfer to large pot.  Add rhubarb & sugar
  to pot & stir till sugar is dissolved.  Bring to a slow boil & simmer
  gently for 20 minutes.  Remove from heat & pour into warm sterile
  jars.  Seal.
  
  Letts, "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot and Zucchini Vichyssoise
 Categories: Misc/food, Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 lb Carrots; chopped med. small
      2 lg Onions; chopped medium small
           Water (as needed)
    1/4 c  Olive oil
  1 1/2 lb Zucchini; peeled
           - (reserve the skins),
           -  and chopped medium small
      1 lg Leek; well washed and
           -  chopped medium small
 
  In a large skillet place the first 1/4 cup of the olive oil and heat
  it on medium high until it is hot.  Add the carrots and onions, and
  saut them for 4 to 5 minutes, or until the onions are clear.  Add
  enough water to cover the vegetables.  Simmer them for 30 to 40
  minutes, or until the liquid is absorbed.  Place the vegetables in a
  blender and pure them until they are smooth.  Set the pure aside
  and let it cool.
  
  In another large skillet place the second 1/4 cup of olive oil and
  heat it on medium high until it is hot.  Add the peeled zucchini and
  leeks, and saut them for 4 to 5 minutes, or until they are just
  tender.  Add enough water to cover the vegetables.  Simmer them for
  25 to 30 minutes, or until the liquid is absorbed.  Place the
  vegetables in a blender and pure them until they are smooth.  Set
  the pure aside and let it cool.
  
  Place the zucchini skins in a pot of boiling water and blanch them
  for 3 minutes.  Drain the skins and place them in a blender.  Add a
  small amount of cold water and pure the skins so that a thick,
  smooth consistency is achieved (the same consistency as the other 2
  pures).  Set the pure aside and let it cool.
  
  Refrigerate the 3 soups until they are cold.
  
  In each of 8 individual serving bowls place a portion of the 3 soups.
  Swirl them together with a knife to form a design.
  
  Source: Fennel - Santa Monica, California "Southern California Beach
  Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Beef
      Yield: 18 servings
 
     10    Carrots, peeled and cut into
           -chunks
      2 tb Oil
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
      3    Onions, cut into chunks
      2    Celery stalks, diced
      2    Green peppers, diced
      5 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Parsley
    1/2 c  Tahini
      3 tb Peanut butter
      2 tb Cashew butter (opt)
    1/2 c  Wheat germ, bran or flour
           -(opt)
 
   Place the carrots in a medium-sized saucepan containing 3 or 4
  inches of water; steam over medium heat for 15 minutes, till soft.
  Drin and mash well using a potato masher.
  
   In a alrge skillet, heat the oil over medium heat; add the diced
  garlic, onions, celery, and peppers; saute for 7 minutes. Add the
  tamari, basil, garlic powder, parsely, and oregano; saute for 2
  minutes more, until vegetables are soft. In a large bowl, combine the
  carrots, sauteed vegetables, tahini and peanut butter.
   Season to taste. If the batter is too wet, add the wheat germ to
  make it hold together.
  
   Preheat oven to 350. Form the mixture into patties, and place on an
  oiled cookie sheet. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, until golden on top.
  Turn and bake on the other side until golden brown.
  
   From _The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals_ from Gentle World
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Cabbage Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Green cabbage, sliced thinly
      6    Carrots; sliced thinly
      2    Onions; sliced
      2 c  Tofu Sour Cream (see below)
      2 c  Bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Sesame seeds
      2 tb Oil
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Nutritional yeast

MMMMM----------------------TOFU SOUR CREAM---------------------------
      2 c  Tofu (firm can be used)
    1/4 c  Oil
      3 tb Lemon juice (or vinegar)
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar (optional)
 
  Steam the carrot slices until crisp-tender.  Heat the oil in a large
  pan and add the onions, cooking for a few minutes.  Then add cabbage
  and cook for 10 minutes more.  Remove from heat and stir in the salt,
  pepper, and carrots.  Oil an 8" x 8" baking pan.  Mix half the tofu
  sour cream into the vegies.  Add the nutritional yeast to the
  remaining tofu. Put this on top of the vegetables.  Mix crumbs and
  seeds and sprinkle on top of the casserole.  Bake at 350 for 35-40
  minutes until top is lightly browned.
  
  FOR TOFU SOUR CREAM: Blend all ingredients together until creamy and
  smooth.
  
  From the New Farm Vegetarian Cookbook.
  
  From: tara@starburst.umd.edu (Tara McDermott) @Newsgroups:
  rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cashew "Whipped Cream"
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Raw cashews or cashew pieces
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Sunflower oil
      4 tb Maple syrup or other
           -sweetener
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
           Pinch of salt
 
  Blend cashews and water to form a thick cream. Slowly add to the oil
  in a fine stream. The cream will get very thick. If necessary, add
  additional oil until desired density is reached. Blend in maple
  syrup, vanilla nd salt. Chill and serve. Yields 2.5 cups.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cashew Cream
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Raw, unsalted cashews
    1/4 c  Water, approximately
      2    -to
      3 tb Maple syrup
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Coarsely chop the nuts in a blender or food processor.  With the motor
  running, gradually add the water, 2 tablespoons maple syrup, and
  vanilla.
  
  Taste and add additional maple syrup, if desired.  Continue processing
  until the mixture achieves a consistency similar to whipped cream.
  Add a bit more water if needed.
  
  Makes about 3/4 cup
  
  Source: Recipes from an Ecological Kitchen - by Lorna J. Sass ISBN:
  0-688-10051-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cashew Mushroom Loaf
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ea Small onion, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      8 oz Cashew nuts
      4 oz Fresh breadcrumbs
      3 md Parsnips, cooked & mashed
    1/2 ts Dried rosemary
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1 ts Nutritional yeast (optional)
    1/4 pt Hot water
      1 ea Salt & freshly ground pepper
      1 oz Margarine
      8 oz Mushrooms, chopped
 
  Pre-heat the oven to gas mark 4 or 350F (180C).
  
  Heat the oil & fry the onion & garlic till soft.  Grind the cashew
  nuts, then mix with the breadcrumbs.  Mix in the mashed parsnips &
  herbs.  Add the onion, being sure to scrape all the juices into the
  mixture.  Dissolve the yeast in the water & mix into the vegetable &
  nut mixture.  Season well.
  
  Melt the butter in a skillet & saute the chopped mushrooms until soft.
  Grease a 2 pound loaf tin then press in half the nut mixture, cover
  with a layer of mushrooms & top with the rest of the nut mixture.
  Press in well. Cover with foil & bake for 1 hour.  When cooked,
  remove the pan & let stand for 10 minutes before turning onto a
  plate.  Serve hot or cold. Slice to serve.
  
  Serve with vegetables or a crisp green salad.
  
  Adapted from Sarah Brown's "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower-Broccoli "Cheese" Bake
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 md Cauliflower, cut to florets
      1 bn Broccoli, cut into florets
      1 md Carrot, sliced thinly
      2 tb Oil
      3 ea Garlic cloves, diced
      2 ea Onions, sliced
      3 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 c  Cheesy gravy
      1 tb Nutritional yeast
      1 ts Paprika
 
  Heat oil in large skillet, add the vegetables & saute for 7 minutes.
  Add tamari, salt & garlic powder.  Cook for another 3 minutes.
  
  Preheat oven to 400F.  In an 8 X 12 inch casserole dish, place
  alternating layers of gravy & saute mixture, finishing with a layer
  of gravy. Sprinkle with nutritional yeast & paprika.  Bake for 30
  minutes.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower Curry
 Categories: Vegetarian, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Canola oil
    1/2 ts Black mustard seeds
    1/4 ts Cumin seeds
      1    Green chili; seeded & minced
      4    Curry leaves; crumbled
      2 ts Garlic, minced
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Ground coriander
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Ground tumeric
    1/4 ts Red chili powder
      2 c  Tomatoes, chopped
           -(fresh or canned)
      2 ts Tomato paste
      1 ts Honey
      1 lb Cauliflower florets
    1/2 lb Potatoes; cubed
      1 c  Peas, fresh or frozen
    1/4 c  -Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Fresh cilantro, minced
 
  NOTE: This aromatic dish calls for curry leaves, or "limbado".  If you
  can't find curry leaves, omit them from the recipe.
  
  PREP TIME: 15 minutes COOKING TIME: 15 minutes
  
  1. In a large saucepan, heat oil and fry mustard seeds, cumin seeds,
  green chili and curry leaves until mustard seeds pop.  Add garlic,
  salt, coriander, cumin, tumeric, chili powder, tomatoes, tomato paste
  and honey. Cook 5 minute, stirring occasionally.
  
  2. Add cauliflower, potatoes, peas and water.  Stir well, cover and
  cook over medium heat 10 minute or until potatoes are done.  Add
  lemon juice and cilantro, mix and serve.
  
  Per serving: 179 calories; 4.7 g. fat; 0 mg. cholesterol; 14.3 g.
  fiber.
  
  Source: Delicious!, April 1993 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Celery Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Potatoes; cut into chunks
      4 c  Chopped celery
      3 c  Vegetable stock
      1 ts Salt
           -less if using salted stock
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 c  Minced celery
      1 ts Celery seeds
      1 c  Stock *

MMMMM------------------------FOR GARNISH-----------------------------
           Parsley or chives
 
  *Note: Less stock may be used, depending upon how thick you want the
  soup.
  
  Place potatoes, celery, stock & salt in a large pot & bring to a boil.
  Cover & simmer for 15 minutes or unitl vegetables are soft. Puree &
  return to pot.
  
  Heat oil & fry the onions & minced celery for 8 to 10 minutes, unitl
  they are just tender.  Add to puree.
  
  Stir in remaining ingredients, using enough stock to make the required
  consistency according to taste.  Check seasonings & heat carefully.
  
  Courtesy of Mark Satterly
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Char Flavoured Eggplant & Green Peas
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 md Eggplant, cut into 1" cubes
      2 c  Fresh or frozen green peas
      4 tb Ghee
      1 tb Coarsely crushed coriander
    1/2 tb Coarsely crushed cumin seeds
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Salt
      3 ea Whole hot chilies
    1/8 ts Asafetida
      3 ea Sprigs fresh coriander
      2 c  Stock
 
  Place eggplant into the bottom of a heavy pot.  Sprinkle in the fresh
  peas, dot with ghee & add the remaining ingredients.  Bring the
  liquid to a boil & cook for 4 minutes.  Reduce the heat to low,
  partially cover & cook for about 30 minutes, shaking the pot from
  time to time to prevent sticking. If the stock is evaporating too
  quickly, add some more & reduce the heat. When almost all the stock
  has evaporated, add the frozen peas (if you are using them instead of
  fresh) reduce the heat further & fry until a crust has begun to form
  on the bottom of the pot & the eggplant has begun to char.
  
  Remove from the heat & let sit for 3 to 4 minutes.  Gently stir in the
  crust & serve immediately.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Char Flavoured Potatoes and Green Beans
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetable
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      2 md Tomatoes, chopped
      5 md Potatoes, cubed
  2 1/2 c  Green beans, cut into 1 1/2
           - inch pieces
      1 tb Basil
      2 ea Whole dried red chilies
      4 ea Sprigs fresh coriander
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/8 ts Asafetida
      1 ts Salt
      1 ds Black pepper
      6 tb Ghee
  2 2/3 c  Water
 
  Place all the ingredients into a large heavy bottomed pot in the
  order in which they are listed.  Bring to a boil over a moderate
  heat, reduce heat & boil for 5 minutes.
  
  Reduce the heat further & gently boil, partially covered, for 20 to 25
  minutes.  Check that the water is not evaporating too quickly.  You
  may have to add more water.
  
  To finish cooking, raise the heat to fairly high & fry quickly,
  without stirring, to allow the crust to form & just begin to char.
  Remove from the heat & let stand, covered for 5 minutes.  Stir in the
  crust & serve, remembering to remove the red chilies, you may not
  want to bite into them. :)
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesy Gravy
 Categories: Vegetarian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Nutritional yeast
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Oil
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Oregano
 
  In a medium pot, combine yeast & flour.  Place over low heat & stir
  till lightly toasted.  Add oil, stirring to make a thick batter.
  Slowly add the water, stirring constantly until desired consistency
  is reached.  You could use as little as 1 c or as much as 2 c.  Add
  remaining ingredients & stir well.
  
  Yields 2 cups.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry and Raspberry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 l  Sweet cherries
     50 ml Orange juice
     25 ml Lemon rind
     15 ml Grated orange rind
  1 1/2 l  Raspberries
      1 l  Sugar
           A few drops almond extract
 
  Pit & chop cherries.  Add next three ingredients. Bring to boil &
  cook for 10 minutes, stirring frequently.  Add raspberries & sugar.
  Bring to a boil, stirring frequently.  Boil to jam stage (15 minutes
  or so).  Remove from heat, stir & skim for 5 minutes.  Pour into hot,
  sterile jars & seal.
  
  Agriculture Canada, "Jams, Jellies and Other Preserves"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Sweet cherries
      3 c  Warmed sugar
 
  Stone cherries.  Crush the fruit.  Boil in their juice till tender,
  about 10 minutes.  Add sugar, stir well to dissolve.  Boil for
  another 5 to 7 minutes.  Remove from heat & let stand, covered, for 2
  to 3 minutes.  Stir & skim if necessary.  Pour into sterile jars &
  seal.
  
  "The Forgotten Arts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chestnut Roast
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Butter (or margarine or oil)
      1 lg Onion; peeled and chopped
      2    Celery stalks
           - finely chopped
      2 lb Chestnuts; peeled & cooked
           -=OR=-
      3 cn -Whole chestnuts (15 oz ea.)
           -soaked and cooked
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
           Fresh breadcrumbs (Optional)
           -(should be whole wheat)
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 c  Oil

MMMMM------------------------FOR COATING-----------------------------
           Dried breadcrumbs
 
  Melt the butter (or substitute) and saute the onion and celery over
  moderate heat for 10 minutes until soft but not brown.  Transfer to a
  large bowl.  Drain the chestnuts and add to the bowl.  Mix these
  ingredients together well.
  
  Mash the chestnuts, onion and celery, then mix into the bowl the
  chopped parsley, lemon juice and garlic.
  
  The mixture should be soft but firm enough to form into a roll, so
  add a few whole-wheat breadcrumbs, if necessary, especially if you're
  using canned chestnuts.  Season the mixture with salt and pepper to
  taste.
  
  Preheat the oven to 400 F.  Pour a little of the oil into a roasting
  pan and put into the oven to heat.
  
  Form the chestnut mixture into a roll about 8 inches long, pressing it
  together carefully, then coat it well with the dried breadcrumbs.
  Put the chestnut roll into the roasting pan and carefully turn it so
  that it is coated with hot oil.
  
  Bake for 45 minutes, until it is crisp on the outside, spooning a
  little more of the oil over the roll from time to time during the
  cooking.  Serve the Chestnut Roast cut into slices.
  
  Source: The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine - by Rose Elliot ISBN:
  0-394-57123-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chestnuts with Rice
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Onion, sliced finely
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced
           Margarine as required
      1 ts All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Stock
      1 lb Chestnuts, boiled
           Salt & black pepper
    1/2 c  White wine
      2 c  Cooked rice
 
  Saute onion & mushrooms in margarine till brown.  Add flour & blend.
  Gradually add stock.  Stir till smooth.  Add peeled & chopped
  chestnuts & mix well.  Season.  Add white wine, heat to boiling point
  & serve over rice.
  
  "The Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Pea & Tahini Dip
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Soaked chick peas
      2 ea Lemons, juiced
      2 ea Crushed garlic cloves
      5 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Tahini
           Salt & pepper
           Water
           Paprika & parsley
 
  Drain chick peas, cover with water in a pot & cook for 60 minutes.
  Drain & cool.  Place in a processor with lemon juice, garlic, oil,
  tahini & salt & pepper.  Blend till smooth adding more water if
  needed.  You should have a thick paste.  Check seasonings.  Garnish
  with paprika & parsley.  Serve with pita bread.
  
  "Entertaining with Cranks"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Pea Loaf
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Chick peas
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 ea Celery stalks, chopped
      2 ea Carrots, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Tamari
      1 ts Cumin powder
      1 ea Salt to taste
    1/4 ts Turmeric
      3 tb Tahini
 
  Place soaked chick peas in a pot & cook for 50 minutes to 1 hour, till
  soft.  Drain, save the stock & mash well.
  
  Heat ol in large skillet & saute garlic & onions for 5 minutes.  Add
  celery, carrot, tamari, 2 tsp parsley, cumin, salt & turmeric.  Saute
  till vegetables are tender.  Add to the mashed chick peas & mix well.
  Add the tahini & mix well.
  
  Place in a large baking pan or two small loaf pans & bake at 375F for
  45 minutes.
  
  Serve with a salad &/or vegetables on the side.
  
  "The Cookbook For People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Pea and Mushroom Bake
 Categories: Vegetarian, Low-cal/fat, Mushroom
      Yield: 2 servings
 
112 1/2 g  Chick peas (dried) or
    300 g  Chick peas (canned)
  7 1/2 ml Lemon juice
           Ground Black Pepper
  2 1/2 ml Sunflower Oil
    125 g  Mushrooms
 12 1/2 g  Sunflower margerine
 12 1/2 g  Wholemeal flour
    150 ml Water
 12 1/2 g  Soy cheese
 12 1/2 g  Breadcrumbs
 
  Notes:
  
  Either Butter Beans or Chick Peas can be used in this recipe.
  
  Preparation:
  
  Slice the mushrooms and grate the cheese. Soak the dried chickp
  peas/butter beans as instructed on the packet. Drain, and cook in a
  pan of unsalted boiling water fgor 40-50 minutes or until tender. If
  using canned beans, just drain.
  
  1. Put the beans in a large greased ovenproof dish. 2. Add the lemon
  juice and black pepper. 3. Heat the oil in a pan and fry the
  mushrooms, then add to the dish. 4. Heat the margerine in a non-stick
  saucepan and add the flour. 5. Cook for 2 minutes over a low heat,
  stirring, then slowly add the water to make a puring sauce. 6. Pour
  over the chick peas/butter beans and mushrooms. 7. Sprinkle with
  cheese and breadcrumbs. 8. Cook in the oven at 180C/350F/GM4 for 25
  minutes.
  
  Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Pea & Basmati Rice Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Cooked chick peas
      1 c  Cooked basmati rice
    1/2 ea Red bell pepper, diced
    1/2 ea Green bell pepper, diced
    1/2 ea Yellow bell pepper, diced
      4 ea Scallions, sliced
           Salt to taste
           --------VINAIGRETTE---------
      2 ts Toasted sesame seeds
      1 ts Sesame oil
    1/4 ts Cumin
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  +++++  ts Salt
  
  Toss together chick peas, rice, bell peppers, scallions in a large
  bowl. Whisk together all the ingredients for the vinaigrette.  toss
  with salad & season to taste.
  
  "The Hamilton Spectator" August, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Peas and Sesame Paste
 Categories: Appetizer, Greek
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Chick peas, cooked
      4 tb Lemon juice
      2 ea Garlic cloves
      4 tb Olive oil
           Stock from chick peas
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
    1/2 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      4 ts Sesame paste
    1/2 ts Paprika
           Parsley to garnish
 
  Chick peas should be overcooked.  Reserve liquid.  Put chick peas
  with 1/2 c liquid in blender.  Mash well.  Blend with other
  ingredients except sesame paste, paprika & additional parsley.  In a
  small bowl, mix the sesame paste with a little more of the reserved
  stock.  Add to belnder & mix briefly.  Serve sprinkled with paprika &
  additional parsley & with pita bread.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Peas in Spanish Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, European
      Yield: 2 servings
 
227 1/2 g  Chick peas (dried) or
    400 g  Chick peas (canned)
    1/2    Green pepper
    1/2    Red pepper
    1/2    Green chilli
    1/2    Onion
    1/2    Garlic clove
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Sea salt
227 1/2 g  Tomatoes
 
  Chop the peppers, onions, garlic and tomatoes.  Lightly fry the
  peppers, onion and garlic in the olive oil for a few minutes.  Add
  the parsley, tomatoes and salt and cook on a low heat for about half
  an hour, stirring, occasionally, until the tomatoes are pulped.
  Combine this with the cooked chick peas and serve, either with rice
  or potatoes.
  
  Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Peas in Olive-Tahini Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      3 lg Celery stalks, chopped
      1 md Red or green bell pepper,
           -- chopped
           Olive-tahini sauce -- see
           -- recipe
      3 c  Cooked chick peas
    1/4 c  Wheat germ
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/4 ts Coriander
           Black pepper
 
  Heat oil in large skillet.  When hot, add garlic, onion & celery &
  saute till onion is translucent.  Add bell pepper & saute till
  vegetables are lightly browned.  Remove from heat & pour olive-tahini
  sauce into the skillet along with the remaining ingredients.  Return
  to low heat & simmer 5 to 7 minutes.  Serve over rice or other grain.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chickpea Salad with Garlic-Cumin Vinaigrette
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Dried chickpeas
           - soaked overnight; -OR-
  2 1/2 c  Canned chickpeas
  1 1/2 c  Finely diced red onion
      6 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
      4 ea Garlic cloves; crushed
      1 ea Red jalapeno chili; minced
      3 tb Finely chopped minced herbs
           -(thyme, mint, tarragon,
           - parsley, cilantro)
      1 tb Cilantro leaves
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
           -OR- lemon juice
  1 1/2 tb Coarsely crushed cumin seeds
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Drain soaked chickpeas and cook, covered, in water to cover until
  tender, about 2 hours or a little longer.  Plunge them into cold
  water, then rub them between fingers to remove the skins.  (If using
  canned chickpeas, simply drain and rinse.)  Toss beans in a bowl with
  the onions.
  
  For the vinaigrette, whisk olive oil with garlic, jalapeno, herbs,
  vinegar or lemon juice, salt, and pepper.  Pour over the salad and
  mix thoroughly. Taste and adjust seasoning with salt and vinegar, let
  stand 30 minutes or longer.  Add cilantro leaves as garnish.  Serve
  at room temperature.
  
  Adapted from "Chicago Tribune Food Guide", 4 March 1993.  Adapted from
  "Classical Turkish Cooking" by Ayla Algar
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chickpeas Italienne
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dried chick peas, soaked
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
     14 oz Canned tomatoes, chopped
      1 sm Can tomato paste
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ds Cinnamon
      2 tb Parsley
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Rinse chickpeas, place in fresh water & cook for 50 minutes or till
  tender.
  
  Heat oil in large pot & saute onions & garlic for a few minutes.  Add
  the tomatoes & tomato paste.  Bring to a boil, lower heat & add the
  rest of the ingredients.  Simmer for about 10 minutes or until the
  sauce has thickened.
  
  Serve with mashed potatoes & green vegetables or pasta.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili Bean Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Uncooked red kidney beans
      2 pt Water
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion, finely chopped
      1 ea Garlic clove, pressed
    1/2 lb Mixed vegetables*
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 tb Chili powder
     14 oz Tomatoes, chopped finely+
      2 tb Tomato paste
      3 tb Red wine++
      2 oz Bulgur wheat+++
  1 1/2 pt Stock
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Salt & pepper
 
  Soak beans.  Drain & rinse well.  Bring to boil in fresh water & boil
  fast for 10 minutes.  Reduce heat & cook for 40 minutes, depending
  upon the freshness of the beans.  Older beans will take longer to
  cook.  Drain, reserving the liquid for stock later.
  
  Heat the olive oil in a large pot, gently fry the onion & garlic for
  a few minutes.  Add the chopped vegetables, cooked beans, basil &
  spices.  Stir well & cook for 5 minutes.  Add the tomatoes, tomato
  paste, bulgur wheat & 1 pint of the stock.  Bring to a boil, cover
  the pot, reduce heat & simmer gently for 30 minutes.  Add the lemon
  juice & the rest of the seasonings. Add more stock if necessary.
  Cook for a further 20 minutes.  Serve.
  
  * Use a mixture of carrots, bell peppers, celery
  
  + Either fresh or canned tomatoes will work
  
  ++ You can omit the wine or substitute with a little tomato juice or
  extra
        stock
  
  +++ If you can't get bulgur wheat, try using brown rice
  
  Adapted from Sarah Brown, "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilis in Oil (Nam Prik Pow)
 Categories: Thai, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 tb Oil
      3 tb Finely chopped garlic
      3 tb Finely chopped shallots
      3 lg Dry red chilis; deseeded
           -- coarsely chopped
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
 
  Heat the oil, fry the garlic until golden brown, removve with a
  slotted spoon and set aside.  In the same oil fry the shallots until
  crispy, remove and set aside.  Fry the chilis until they darken,
  remove and place in a mortar with the shallot and garlic.  Pound
  together.  Reheat the oil, add the paste and warm through.  Add the
  sugar and salt and mix well to give a thick black/red sauce.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Pear Soup
 Categories: Vegetarian, Soup/stew, Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Pears; peeled, cored, diced
      2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Sea salt
      4 tb Brown rice syrup
    1/2 ts Peeled, finely minced ginger
           -OR-
    1/2 ts -Powdered ginger
    1/4 ts Anise extract (optional)
           Mint leaves, fresh
           Strawberries for garnish
 
  Bring the pears, water, and salt to a simmer. Add the rice syrup and
  ginger (and the anise extract, if you wish). Simmer for 3 more
  minutes. Allow the mixture to cool. Then puree the mixture and chill.
  Serve garnished with mint leaves or strawberries. From _Friendly
  Foods_ by Bro. Ron Picarski
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Style Sauteed Firm Tofu
 Categories: Chinese, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 oz Firm tofu
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 sm Onion, thinly sliced
      6 md Mushrooms, sliced
      1 sm Carrot, cut into matchsticks
      2 md Green bell peppers, thinly
           -- sliced
      1 tb Sake or white wine
  1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Grated ginger
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Water
      1 ts Cornstarch dissolved in 3
           -- tb water
 
  Cut tofu crosswise into pieces the shape of French-fried potatoes.
  Heat a wok, coat with oil & sprinkle on the salt.  Add onion, then
  the mushrooms, stir frying each over high heat for about 30 seconds.
  Reduce heat to medium-low.  Add carrot, green pepper & tofu in that
  order, sauteeing each for about 1 minute.  Reduce heat to low & add
  sake, soy sauce, ginger, sugar & water.  Simmer for 3 to 4 minutes.
  Stir in dissolved cornstarch & simmer 30 seconds for another 30
  seconds.
  
  Shurtleff & Aoyagi, "The Book of Tofu"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Vegetable Miso Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Sesame oil
      2 ea Celery stalks, sliced
      1 md Carrot, sliced
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 c  Vermicelli
      1 md Turnip, diced
      2 bn Scallions, chopped
  1 1/2 c  Mushrooms, chopped
    3/4 c  Snow peas
      1 c  Mung bean sprouts
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 tb Rice or white vinegar
      2 ea Tofu cakes, diced
      4 tb Miso
 
  Bring 5 c of vegetable stock to a boil.  Lower heat & add sesame oil,
  celery, carrot & garlic.  Cover & simmer over low heat for 10
  minutes.  In the meantime, cook the noodles separately til lal dente.
  Drain & set aside.
  
  Add turnip & white parts of scallions to the stock pot.  Simmer for 5
  minutes.  Add rest of the ingredients except tofu, miso & noodles &
  simmer, covered, till cooked.  Add the noodles & tofu.  Remove from
  heat.
  
  Dissolve miso thoroughly in 1/2 c warm water.  Stir into soup.  Serve
  immediately.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Carrot Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian, Dessert
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Finely grated carrots
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Canola oil
      1 c  Boiling water
  1 1/2 c  Wholewheat flour
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
      1 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Pre-heat oven to 350F.
  
  In a large bowl, combine carrots, sugar & oil.  Pour water over the
  mixture.  In a separate bowl, combine the rest of the ingredients.
  Add to the carrot mixture & mix well.
  
  Pour into a non-stick or lightly oiled 8" square pan.  Bake for 35
  minutes.
  
  "Vegetarian Times", April, 1991.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Puddle Pudding
 Categories: Dessert, Vegetarian, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 oz White flour
  1 1/2 oz Shortening
      3 oz White Sugar
      2 tb Cocoa powder, unsweetened
      5 tb Water or plain soya milk
      2 oz Brown sugar
      2 tb Cocoa powder
    1/2 pt Water
 
  Mix flour & cocoa together.  Cut in shortening & mix with sugar.
  Stir in water or milk until you have a moist cake.  Place in a
  greased ovenproof dish.
  
  Put all remaining ingredients into a pot & stir until the cocoa &
  sugar is dissolved.  Bring to a boil.  Pour boiling sauce over the
  cake put straight into a 355F oven for 35 minutes.  Remove from oven,
  sprinkle with white sugar & serve immediately.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chox Rouge Aux Groseille Braise
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Whole caraway seeds
           -=OR=- Cumin seeds
      2 ts Dry red wine
      1    Red or yellow onion
           - thinly sliced
    1/4 ts Salt; more to taste
      1 sm Red cabbage; thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Currants (or raisins)
      2 tb Vinegar (or more to taste)
           -(red wine, cider or rice)
    2/3 c  Water or apple juice
 
  (Braised Red Cabbage with Currants)
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
    Toast caraway or cumin seeds in a roaster oven or frying pan until
  they smell nutty, about 1 min.  In a large pot, heat wine. Add onion
  & salt, and saute for 5 min., until onion wilts and smells very
  sweet. Add red cabbageand saute over medium-low heat until it wilts a
  little, about 5 min. (Add water as needed to prevent sticking.) Add
  caraway or cumin seeds and currants.  Mix vinegar and water or apple
  juice, pour over the cabbage and mix well.  Preheat oven to 375
  degrees. Lightly oil a 6-8 cup baking dish and spoon the cabbage and
  liquid into it. Cover and bake for 45 to 60 minutes. Serve warm or at
  room temp. Serves 6.  This may be refrigerated in dish for 3-4 days
  and reheated in covered casserole in the oven.
  
  From: the January 1993 issue of Vegetarian Times
  
  FROM:    JANICE MESSALI   (SWSH14B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chunky Granola (With No Oil Added)
 Categories: Breakfast, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 c  Rolled oats
      1 c  Nuts (more if desired,
           -- up to double this amount)
    1/2 c  Sunflower seeds
    1/2 c  Whole millet
           -OR- whole buckwheat groats
      3 c  Whole wheat flour (or more)
           -OR- part cornmeal,
           - rice flour,
           - or other whole-grain flour
      1 ts Salt (or more, as desired)
    1/2 c  Honey (or more,
           -- up to double this amount)
      1 c  -Hot water, or up to:
      2 c  -Hot water *
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  * Note: More water makes the granola chunkier, less makes it crumbly.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  In a large bowl or pot, combine oats, nuts,
  seeds, millet, flour, and salt.  Mix together honey, water, and
  vanilla, and stir into dry ingredients.  Spread on a lightly oiled
  baking sheet and squeeze mixture together to form small chunks, but
  don't crowd; the chunks need to bake clear through.  Roast until
  golden brown, about 10 to 20 minutes. (With the larger amount of
  water, reduce heat and bake longer.)  As it bakes the granola may
  need stirring to brown evenly.  Cool thoroughly before storing.
  
  Variations:  Replace part of the water with the freshly squeezed
  juice of 2 oranges (and add the grated rinds if the oranges were not
  sprayed with pesticides), or use 2 teaspoons orange oil.
  
  For "gingerbread" granola, use half molasses (for half honey) and add
  2 teaspoons cinnamon, 1 teaspoon ginger and 1/4 teaspoon cloves.
  
  For a nice change, substitute maple syrup for honey.
  
  Source: Susan Weber, _Diet for Small Planet_, by Frances Moore Lappe
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chunky Vegetable Stew with Chickpeas
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2    Garlic cloves
      1 c  Chopped onions
      2    Celery stalks
           -cut into 1/2 pieces
      2    Carrots; cut into discs
      2 md Parsnips; cut into discs
      1 lg Potato; cubed
      3 c  -Tomato juice, plus:
      5 c  -Water
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
      1 ts Marjoram or oregano
           Salt and pepper; to taste
      1 cn Chickpeas; drained
      2 c  Shredded cabbage (optional)
 
    Heat the oil in a large pan and toss the onion, garlic, celery,
  carrots, parsnips and potato in it over a low heat.  Add the juice
  and water, marjoram, oregano, salt and pepper to taste. Increase the
  heat and simmer for 20 minutes.  Add the drained chickpeas and the
  cabbage, if you are using it, and cook for a further 10 minutes.
  Serves 6. From Claire Hopley- Amherst Bulletin- 1-29-93
  
  Posted by Pat Buttons in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Rice
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Ghee
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 pn Turmeric
      2 ea Cloves
      4 ea Black peppercorns
      2 ea Black or brown cardamom pods
      2 c  Dried coconut
      2 c  Brown rice
  3 3/4 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Chopped almonds
 
  Presoak rice for an hour & then rinse well, pick out the dirt.
  
  Heat ghee in a heavy pot & saute cumin till brown.  Add turmeric,
  cloves, peppercorns & cardamom.  Stir for about a minute.
  
  Stir in coconut.  Saute till golden.  Add rice & continue sauteing,
  over medium heat for 2 minutes.
  
  Pour in water, add salt, bring to a boil, lower heat, cover & cook for
  about 20 minutes, until the water has evaporated & the rice is cooked.
  
  Garnish with cashews, raisins & almonds.
  
  Serve with any main curry.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Snaps
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Shortening
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Walnuts
    1/2 c  Finely shredded coconut
 
  Beat shortening till soft.  Add sugar & cream till fluffy.  Add water
  & mix.  Add the rest of the ingredients in order, mixing well after
  each addition.  Finish with the nuts & coconut.  Form into rolls,
  wrap in waxed paper & chill for several hours in the fridge.  Slice
  into rounds an 1/8 inch thick.  Bake on an ungreased cookie sheet for
  10 minutes at 375F. Remove to a wire rack to cool.
  
  Makes 48.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Cooked pinto beans
      1 c  Cooked navy beans
      1 c  Cooked red kidney beans
      1 ea Celery stalk, diced
      1 ea Green bell pepper, diced
      2 ea Garlic cloves, diced
    1/2 c  Oil
      3 tb Tamari
      2 tb Apple cider vinegar
      1 tb Light molasses
      3 tb Nutritional yeast
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Basil
    1/8 ts Red pepper
 
  Combine beans & diced vegetables in a large bowl.  Place remaining
  ingredients in blender & blend on high for 1 minute.  Add to bean
  vegetable mixture.  Blend more seasoned liquid if desired.  Chill for
  2 hours. Season to taste.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Eggplant Provencale
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 lg Eggplants, sliced to rounds
      1 c  Chopped parsley
      2 ea Large onions, sliced thinly
      6 lg Tomatoes, sliced
      2 lg Garlic cloves, minced
      2 ea Celery hearts, chopped
      2 ts Currants
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Peppercorns, crushed
      1 ts Capers, chopped
           Black pepper
      1 c  Olive oil
           Lemon wedges
 
  Sprinkle eggplant slices with salt.  Place in a large colander, cover
  with weight & let stand about 45 minutes.  Rinse thoroughly & pat dry.
  
  Arrange half of the eggplant in a baking dish.  Sprinkle with half the
  parsley.  Arrange the onions, tomatoes, garlic, celery, currants,
  basil, capers, peppercorns on top.  Season to taste with salt &
  pepper.  Sprinkle with remaining parsley.  Top with rest of eggplant.
  Pour olive oil evenly over the top.  Cover with foil tightly.
  
  Bake at 275F for 4 hours.  Remove oil & bake for another 1 hour.
  
  Let cool & then chill.  Let stand at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours
  before serving.  Garnish with lemon wedges.
  
  Joel Rapp, "Mother Earth's Vegetarian Feasts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Sesame Noodles
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/4 lb Snow peas; trimmed
    1/2 lb Whole wheat udon
           -OR WW/brown rice udon
      1 tb Toasted Sesame oil
           -(Oriental type)
      3 tb Sesame tahini
      1 lg Garlic clove; roasted,
           - peeled   -=OR=-
      1 sm -Raw garlic clove,
           - peeled and minced
      2 tb Tamari soy sauce
    1/4 ts Ground Szechuan peppercorns
           -(Or more, to taste) -=OR=-
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2 ts Brown rice vinegar
    1/2 ts Maple syrup
    1/4 c  -Pasta cooking water, approx
      1 pn Cayenne pepper; -=OR=-
      3 dr -Hot pepper sesame oil
           -(To taste)

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
      1 lg Cucumber; peeled, seeded,
           - and diced
      1    Scallion; (green part only)
           - thinly sliced
           Sesame seasoning salt
           -(gomasio)
 
  Bring about 6 cups of water to the boil.  Blanch the snow peas in the
  water for 1 minute.  Remove them with a slotted spoon, place in a
  strainer, and refresh immediately under cold running water. Cut into
  thirds and set aside.
  
  In the same boiling water used for the snow peas, cook the pasta until
  tender but still chewy.  Drain well and reserve about 1/2 cup of the
  cooking water.
  
  In a serving bowl, immediately toss the hot pasta in the sesame oil to
  prevent it from clumping together.
  
  In a blender or food processor, combine the remaining ingredients,
  starting with 1-1/2 tablespoons tamari and 1/4 teaspoon Szechuan
  peppercorns, with just enough of the pasta cooking liquid to create a
  medium-thick sauce (the consistency should be like pancake batter).
  
  Toss the sauce and reserved snow peas with the pasta.  Taste and add
  more tamari and pepper if desired.
  
  Garnish with the cucumber and scallion, and sprinkle with sesame
  seasoning salt before serving.  Serve warm or at room temperature.
  
  Source: Recipes from an Ecological Kitchen - by Lorna J. Sass ISBN:
  0-688-10051-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Sichuan Noodles
 Categories: Pasta, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Chinese egg noodles
      2 tb Peanut oil
      2 tb Finely chopped scallions
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Yellow bean sauce
      2 ts Chili bean sauce
      2 ts Finely chopped ginger
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      2 tb Sesame oil

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Fresh corinader leaves
 
  If using the dried noodles, cook them according to package
  instructions or else boil them for 4 to 5 minutes.  Cool in cold
  water until required.  If using the fresh noodles, boil them for 3 to
  5 minutes, then immerse in cold water.
  
  Heat a wok or large frying-pan and add the oil.  When hot, add the
  scallions, garlic, yellow bean sauce, chili bean sauce, and ginger and
  stir-fry for 2 minutes.  Allow the mixture to cool thoroughly.
  
  Drain the noodles and combine them with the cool seasonings, soy
  sauce, and sesame oil.  Garnish with the coriander and serve within 3
  hours.
  
  Ken Hom "Asian Vegetarian Feast"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Sweet and Sour Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian, Chinese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 oz Olive oil
      7 oz Onion, chopped
 10 1/2 oz Cabbage,chopped
 10 1/2 oz Tomatoes, chopped
      1 pt Water
  3 1/4 oz Lemon juice
      4 tb Honey
  3 1/4 oz Orange juice
      1 oz Tofu balls
 
  Heat oil & saute onions till translucent.  Add cabbage & saute 5
  minutes more.  Add tomatoes, water, lemon juice, honey & simmer for
  15 to 20 minutes.  Season with salt & pepper & remove from heat.
  Pour soup into food processor & puree to a smooth consistency.
  Refrigerate for 6 to 8 hours.  Before serving, blend soup with orange
  juice.  Place tofu balls in a dish & pour soup over the top.  Garnish
  with julienned cabbage & chervil leaves.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornish Under Roasted Potatoes
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lg Potatoes, quartered
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 ea Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Scrub & peel potatoes if you like.  Quarter them & place in a pot.
  Cover with water.  Bring to a boil & remove from heat.
  
  Heat 2 tb oil in a roasting pan.   Add onions & fry quickly for a
  couple of minutes.  Baste each potato well.  Half fill the pan with
  water that cooked the potatoes.  Sprinkle with salt & pepper.  Cover
  & roast at 350F for 45 minutes.
  
  Remove the lid & roast for a further 15 minutes or until the water has
  evaporated.  Serve with your favourite roast.
  
  Adapted by Mark Satterly from a traditional recipe
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Country Life Tofu Cheesecake
 Categories: Dessert, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      5 c  Finely ground granola
    1/4 lb Soy margarine

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 c  Soymilk; -OR-
      1 c  -Dry Soyagen AND
      1 c  -Water
     20 oz Tofu
    1/2 c  Dry fructose
    1/2 c  Refined soy oil
      1 tb Vanilla extract
      1 ts Almond extract
      2 ts Arrowroot powder

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Apple juice concentrate
      3 tb Arrowroot powder
      6 c  Fresh strawberries
 
  Blend granola and margarine together in bowl.  Spread in oiled pie
  plate and bake at 350F for 5 min.  Blend filling ingredients in
  blender until smooth.  Pour into pie crust.  Bake at 350F for 20 min.
  Mix 1/2 c of juice concentrate with arrowroot.  Simmer strawberries
  with 1/4 c of juice concentrate.  Add arrowroot mixture and simmer
  for 15 min more. Pour topping over cheesecake and cool before slicing.
  
  From "The Vegetarian Times Cookbook."
  
  Posted by Theresa Merkling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Couscous Patties:
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 30 servings
 
     10 oz Couscous
      6    Green chillies
      1    1" piece of ginger
           Salt; to taste
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      1 ts Mustard seeds
    1/2 c  Urad dahl
      3    Dry red chillies
           Curry leaves (2-3 sprigs)
      2 tb Coconut (optional)
 
  You will be able to get mustard seeds, curry leaves and urad dahl in
  any local Indian store.
  
  Save about 2 tsp of urad dahl and soak the rest of the urad dahl in
  water for about an hour. After an hour, grind the urad dahl, green
  chillies and ginger to the consistency of pancake batter and keep
  aside.
  
  In a pan, heat the 2 tsp veg oil and add the mustard seeds, 2 tsp
  urad dahl (that was saved), the curry leaves and the red chillies
  (after cutting them into fine pieces). When the mustard seeds start
  spluttering and the urad dahl starts turning golden brown, add 3 1/2
  cups of water and the urad dahl batter, mix well and close the pan.
  When the water starts boiling, add salt. (The batter already added
  will tend to form clusters- Don't worry - Can be fixed later) Add the
  couscous and mix thoroughly (use a potato masher and get rid of any
  clusters by mashing them well). After the mixture has solidified,
  (This should not take more than 5-10 minutes) take the pan out of the
  heat and let cool.
  
  After the mixture has cooled, take a small portion of the mixture and
  make into a patty and set aside. (You can use some water and/or oil
  to make the patties if the batter is too sticky) The amounts
  mentioned in this recipe should yield about 30 patties. Serve with
  sphaghetti sauce or any spicy chutney.
  
  WARNING: If you don't like spicy food, reduce the number of green and
  red chillies.
  
  From: rsubrama@magnus.acs.ohio-state.edu (Revathi Subramanian)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Couscous Stuffed Eggplant
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Raw coucous
      2 md Eggplants
      3 tb Olive oil
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      5 bn Scallions, minced
      3 md Tomatoes, chopped
      4 tb Wheat germ
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley, minced
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Turmeric
           Salt & pepper
 
  Prepare couscous by covering with twice as much boiling water &
  letting stand for 10 to 15 minutes.  Preheat oven to 375F.
  
  Cut stems off eggplants & cut in half.  Cut away pulp leaving 1/2"
  shell. Dice the pulp.  Heat olive oil plus 2 tb water in skillet.
  When hot, add eggplant & garlic & saute, covered till eggplant is
  tender.  Stir occasionally.  Add scallions & tomatoes & cook till
  they have softened a bit.  Add the rest of the ingredients, including
  the coucous.  Remove from heat.
  
  Fill each eggplant shell with the skillet mixture.  Bake for 35 to 40
  minutes.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cracked Wheat Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Cracked wheat
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 pk Dry yeast
    1/3 c  Warm water
    1/4 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Molasses
      2 tb Honey
      1 c  Warm water
      1 c  Wholewheat flour
      4 c  All-purpose flour
 
  Cook cracked wheat in the boiling water for 10 minutes, till all the
  water is absorbed.  Dissolve yeast in 1/3 c of warm water & let
  proof.  Stir together shortening, salt, molasses, honey & the rest of
  the water & add to cracked wheat.  Stir in the flours a little at a
  time.  When the dough is stiff, turn out onto a floured board & knead
  for 10 minutes, use extra flour if necessary.  Shape into a ball,
  place in oiled bowl, cover & let rise till doubled.  Punch down &
  shape into 2 loaves.  Let rise till doubled.  Bake at 375F for 30 to
  35 minutes.  Cool on racks.
  
  "Beard on Bread"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Pear Pie
 Categories: Vegetarian, Dessert, Holiday
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Cranberries
           - (fresh or frozen)
      1 c  Maple syrup
      1 lb Pears; peeled, cored and cut
           -into 1/4 inch pieces
    1/2 c  Walnuts or pecans
  4 1/2 ts Cornstarch; dissolved in:
      2 tb -Cold water
      1 pn Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1    Unbaked vegan pie crust
           Strips of dough
           -For lattice top
 
  Combine cranberries, syrup and pears in saucepan and bring to a boil.
  Simmer, stirring occasionally, for 3-4 minutes, or until cranberries
  pop. Stir in cornstarch mixture, and simmer for 1 minute, or until
  thickened. Stir in nuts. Allow mixture to cool, then spoon into pie
  shell. Arrange lattice strips of pie pastry on top. Bake in the upper
  third of a preheated 425 deg. F. oven for 40 minutes, or until pastry
  is golden and filling is bubbling.
  
  "The Fund for Animals", P.O. Box 770243, Houston, TX 77215
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Green Garlic Dressing
 Categories: Dressing, Salsa/sauce, Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 lg Roasted garlic cloves
           - peeled
    1/2 c  Minced parsley, packed tight
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 oz Silken tofu; mashed
      2    -to
      3 tb White wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Sea salt; or to taste
      2 tb -Water, or more as needed
 
  NOTE:  To roast garlic, peel off as much papery skin from each large
  head of garlic as will come off easily while still keeping the head
  intact. Brush each head liberally with 1 teaspoon olive oil.  Place
  in a small, shallow baking dish in the toaster oven and roast at 375
  F until the outside is lightly browned and the innermost cloves are
  soft, about 20 minutes.  Refrigerate in a sealed container for up to
  2 weeks.
  
  DRESSING:  In a blender or food processor, combine all of the
  ingredients and process until smooth, adding water as required to
  create a slightly thick consistency.
  
  Use immediately or refrigerate in a tightly sealed container for up
  to 1 week.  Bring to room temperature before using and reblend, if
  necessary.
  
  Makes 1 cup
  
  Lorna Sass, "Recipes from an Ecological Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Lemon Tart Pudding
 Categories: Dessert, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 10 1/2 oz Package silken tofu
    3/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Arrowroot powder/cornstarch
      1 c  Fructose/sugar
 
  Blend together all the ingredients in a blender till smooth.  Adjust
  sweetener to taste.
  
  Cook mixture on the stove top. Bring to a boil on low heat, stiring
  constantly till thickened.  When thickened, pour mixture into
  individual serving dishes & chill till firm.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" March, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Spinach Soup (Lf)
 Categories: Low-cal/fat, Vegetarian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Onion; coarsely chopped
      6 c  -Water
      3    Potatoes; peeled & chopped
      3    Zucchini; thickly sliced
      1 tb Low-sodium soy sauce;
      2 c  Fresh spinach leaves;
           -tightly packed
           Pepper; black to taste
    1/3 c  Enoki mushrooms; trimmed
           -optional

MMMMM------------------------PER SERVING-----------------------------
    123 x  *cals
      3 x  *gm protein
    1/8 x  *gm fat
     27 x  *gm carbo
    181 x  *mg sodium
      5 x  *gm fiber
 
   Place onion in a large pot with 1/2 cup water.  Cook and stir until
  onion softens slightly, about 3 minutes. Add remaining 5 cups of
  water, potatoes, zucchini, and soy saue.  Bring to a boil, reduce
  heat, cover and simmer for 35 minutes.  Add spinach and pepper. Cook
  for another 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Puree soup in batches in
  blender. Return to pan. Add mushrooms if desired.  Heat gently for 5
  minutes. Serve hot. Serves 4 to 6.
  
   Author's Note:  Pureed potatoes give this soup a rich taste and
  texture with barely a trace of fat.
  
   Source: Vegetarian Times, May 1993 Low Fat, Fabulous and Fit by Mary
  McDougall Formatted MM:de
  
  A.ENGLISH [Al & Diane]       at 21:49 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Beans & Rice
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Red kidney beans, cooked
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts Allspice
      3 ea Scallions
      1 ea Cucumber, peeled & sliced
      2 ea Tomatoes, chopped
    3/4 c  Fresh parsley
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
  3 1/2 tb Cider vinegar
      1 ds Tabasco oil
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      4 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      3 ea Celery stalks, chopped
      1 lg Carrot, diced
      2 ea Green peppers, chopped
    1/3 c  Tomato paste
      1 ts Cider vinegar
  1 1/2 ts Brown sugar
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      1 pn Salt
      2 ts Oregano
    1/8 ts Cayenne
    1/8 ts Allspice
  2 1/2 c  Rice, cooked
 
  Combine scallions, cucumber, tomatoes,  parsley, oil, cider vinegar,
  tabasco with the cayenne & allspice to make the salsa.
  
  Saute onions & garlic in remaining oil for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add
  celery & carrots & cook for another 2 minutes.  Add pepper & continue
  to saute till the vegetables are tender.
  
  Whisk together the tomato paste with 1/4 cup of red wine, cider
  vinegar, sugar, mustard, herbs & spices.  Add to the vegetables.
  Combine the beans with the vegetables & stir thoroughly,  Simmer for
  30 minutes.
  
  Layer the saute mixture with the hot rice & salsa & serve.
  
  "New Recipes From Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crisp Split Peas
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Yellow split peas
      2 ts Baking soda
           Vegetable oil
           -- for deep-frying
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
      1 pn Ground cinnamon
      1 pn Ground cloves
      1 ts Salt
 
  Rinse and sort the peas, then place in a large bowl and add enough
  cold water to cover.  Stir in baking soda.  Let soak overnight.
  
  Drain peas, rinse several times in cold water and drain thoroughly.
  Let stand at least 30 minutes, then spread out on paper towels and
  let dry thoroughly.  In a deep, heavy saucepan, heat about 2 inches
  of oil to 350 F (180 C) or until a 1-inch bread cube turns golden
  brown in about 65 seconds.  Add peas, a portion at a time, and cook
  until golden.  (Be careful when cooking peas; even when completely
  dry, they often cause oil to bubble to top of pan.)  Remove peas from
  hot oil with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels.
  
  Turn cooked peas into a small bowl.  Sprinkle with chili powder,
  coriander, cinnamon, cloves and salt; mix to coat peas with spice
  mixture. Cool completely; store in an airtight container until ready
  to serve.
  
  Makes about 1-3/4 cups.
  
  Source: The Book of Appetizers by June Budgen (HP Books/Price Stern
  Sloan) Typographical errors courtesy of: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crispy Bean Curd Cubes with Peanut Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Bean curd (tofu)
           - cut into 1-inch cubes
  1 1/4 c  Peanut oil; for deep-frying

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 oz Roasted peanuts
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Water
      2 ts Chinese white rice vinegar
           -OR- cider vinegar
      1 tb Finely chopped cilantro
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Chili oil
 
  Combine the sauce ingredients together in a small bowl and set aside.
  
  Heat the 1 1/4 cups oil in a deep-fat fryer or a large wok until it
  almost smokes.  Deep-fry the bean curd cubes in two batches.  When
  each batch of bean curd cubes is lightly browned, remove and drain
  well on paper towel.
  
  Arrange the bean curd cubes on a platter and serve the peanut sauce
  separately as a dipping sauce.
  
  Ken Hom, "Asian Vegetaraian Feast"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Croquettes De Couscous Et Pois Chiches
 Categories: French, Vegetarian
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    2/3 c  Hulled, raw sunflower seeds
           - (optional)
      2 c  Cooked and drained chickpeas
      1 c  Uncooked couscous
    1/2 c  Tomato juice
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      3 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Dijon mustard
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Dried rosemary
      1 ts Dried thyme
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      3 tb Minced fresh parsley
      3    Garlic cloves; pressed
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  (Couscous-Chickpea Croquettes) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ If using
  sunflower seeds, preheat oven to 350 degrees. Spread seeds on a baking
  tray. Remove any shells or discolored seeds. Bake to 5-7 min., until
  seeds smell nutty and darken slightly. Grind seeds in a food
  processor for 30 seconds until coarsely chopped. Add chickpeas and
  process until well mixed. Keep mixture in the food processor. In a
  heavy, 1 qt. pot, combine couscous, tomato juice and red wine. Stir
  and bring to a boil. Lower heat, cover and simmer for 2-3 min., until
  couscous has absorbed all the liquid. Let sit 5 more minutes. Add
  cooked couscous to chickpea mixture along with remaining ingr. except
  oil. Mix well, stopping the processor and scraping down the sides
  once or twice, until smooth. Lightly oil your hands. Shape 2 to 3 .
  Tbl. of chickpea mixture between your hands to form a ball. Repeat
  with remaining mixture until you have 24 balls. Flatten balls to form
  patties about 2" wide and 1/2" thick. Brush croquettes with olive oil
  and place on a lightly oiled baking tray. Bake for 15 min, turn the
  croquettes over, bruth with oil and bake another 10-12 min. Makes 24
  2" croquettes. These may be served in a sandwich, as an appetizer or
  as a main dish with pasta and tomato sauce.
  
  From: the January 1993 issue of Vegetarian Times
  
  FROM:    JANICE MESSALI   (SWSH14B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crusty French Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Sugar
      3 c  White flour
           Cornmeal
 
  In a medium sized bowl, warmed, dissolve yeast in water & add salt,
  oil & sugar.  Stir together.  With a slotted spoon, beat in 1 3/4 c
  flour. Combine 1/2 c flour with the other ingredients.  Set side in a
  warm area for 15 to 20 minutes.
  
  Flour a board with the rest of the flour & turn out the dough.  Knead
  till it is no longer sticky.  Flatten it with the palms of your
  hands.  Fold in half & in half again.  Roll until it is 10 1/2 inches
  long.  Sprinkle cornmeal on a cookie sheet & set the dough.  Use a
  brush to oil the surface.  Slash the top of the dough with a sharp
  knife & allow to proof for 30 minutes or so.
  
  Preheat oven to 375F & bake for 20 minutes.  Remove from oven &
  spread the surface with water, using a brush.  Continue to bake for
  30 to 35 minutes.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crusty Garlic Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      6 ea Crushed garlic cloves
      4 c  Unbleached white flour
      3 tb Wheatgerm
 
  Dissolve the yeast in the water in a bowl.  Add salt, oil & garlic.
  Stir in 3 c flour & wheatgerm. Mix with a fork.
  
  Sprinkle 1/4 c flour on a board & turn out the dough, coating it with
  the flour.  Then knead, adding another 1/4 c flour gradually.  Knead
  for a couple of minutes.  Let rise till it has doubled in size.
  Punch down & let it rest for a while.  Roll the dough into a 13 inch
  length.
  
  Set the bread on an oiled sheet.  Let proof for 20 minutes.  Preheat
  oven to 375F & bake for 45 to 55 minutes.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crusty Rye Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Rye flour
      1 tb Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Unbleached white flour
 
  In a deep bowl, measure our the rye flour.  Make a well in the centre.
  Dissolve the yeast in the water & add to the bowl.  Add salt, oil &
  vinegar.  Stir vigorously.  Add the white flour.  Knead well till the
  dough is pliable.
  
  Form into a round bread.  Use a brush to oil the surface & set in a 9"
  round pan.  Allow to double in size.
  
  Preheat oven to 350F & bake for 1 hour 15 minutes.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cumin Nan
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Indian, Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Active dry yeast
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt, optional
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Cold pressed corn oil
    1/3 c  Packaged mash potato flakes
      1 ts Whole cumin seeds, toasted
      1 c  Warm water
           -----------Glaze------------
      1 tb Corn oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
 
  Combine all ingredients except water & glaze in a food processor &
  process for 30 seconds.  Gradually add water while the machine is
  running. Process in short bursts till a thick ball is formed.  Remove
  & knead for 5 minutes. Use flour as needed to prevent sticking.
  Cover dough with a damp cloth & let rise in a warm dark place for 15
  to 20 minutes.
  
  Prepare grill & cover to buld up an intense heat.  Cut dough into 6
  portions.  roll each piece into a circle 8" in diameter & as thin as a
  flour tortilla.  Brush each piece with glaze & place glaze side down
  on the grill.  Cover & allow to bake for 5 minutes.  Brush tops with
  glaze, flip & allow other side to brown.
  
  PER SERVING: 227 Cal.; 5g Prot.; 5g Fat; 41g Carb.; 0 Chol.; 17mg
  Sod.; 3g Fiber.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Almonds
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Blanched almonds
      2 tb Mango chutney
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Curry powder
 
  Heat oven to 350F.
  
  Mix together the mango chutney, turmeric & curry powder.  Mix in the
  almonds, ensuring that they become well coated.  Spread them on a
  non-stick baking sheet.  Bake for 10 minutes.  Spread them no plates
  to cool.
  
  Store almonds in covered containers & add them to salads or serve with
  drinks.
  
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Cauliflower & Potatoes (Aloo Gobi)
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetable, Curries
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      2 ea Hot green chilies, minced
      1 ea 1/2" piece of ginger root
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
      4 tb Ghee
      3 md Potatoes, diced
      1 md Cauliflower in florets
      2 md Tomatoes, diced
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      2 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Garam masala
      1 ts Brown sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Coarsely chopped coriander
 
  Combine chilies, ginger, cumin seeds & mustrad seeds in a small bowl.
  Heat ghee in a large pot.  When hot, add the spices.  When the
  mustard seeds start to pop, drop in the potatoes & cauliflower.  Fry
  for 4 minutes or so.
  
  Add the tomatoes, turmeric, coriander, garam masala, sugar, salt &
  half the minced coriander.  Mix well, cover & gently heat for 15
  minutes.  If the vegetables start to stick, add a few drops of water.
  Top with remaining coriander & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Lentil Pie
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Pastry for 2 crust pie
      2 tb Oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 md Potato, diced
      1 md Carrot, sliced
      1 sm Green bell pepper, diced
      1 tb Coriander powder
      1 ts Cumin powder
      1 ts Ginger powder
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 c  Green lentils
      2 c  Water
      2 tb Tomato paste
           Salt & pepper
 
  In a large pot, heat oil.  Fry onion & garlic for a couple of
  minutes. Add potatoes, carrots & bell pepper & continue to fry for a
  few more minutes, stirring occasionally.  Add spices & stir fry for a
  couple of seconds. Add lentils & tomato paste , stir quickly & add
  water.  Cover, raise heat & bring to a boil.  Reduce heat & simmer
  gently for 30 minutes. Add salt & pepper.  Check the water levels &
  lentil consistency.  Cook for another 15 minutes if lentils are not
  cooked.  Remove from heat & let cool slightly. The mixture should be
  moist but not swimming in water.
  
  Roll out the pastry & line a 9" pie plate.  Add the filling & cover
  with remaining pastry.  Bake at 400F/200C for 30 to 40 minutes until
  the pastry is browned.  Serve with chutney, chili sauce & a salad.
  Good cold.
  
  Very loosely drawn from "Entertaining with Cranks"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Lentils with Spinach
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian, Curries
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Lentils
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 lb Spinach leaves, washed,
           -- stemmed & chopped
     14 oz Can plum tomatoes
      2 tb Tamari
      2 ts Curry powder
    1/4 ts Grated ginger
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Wash lentils.  Cook till tender but firm.  Heat olive oil in large
  pot & when hot add garlic.  Saute for 1 minute.  Add spinach leaves &
  steam till they wilt.  Add lentils & rest of ingredients.  Cover &
  simmer for 15 minutes.  Serve over rice.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Potatoes with Eggplant (Aloo Baigan Sabji)
 Categories: Vegetable, Indian, Curries
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 ea 1/2" piece of ginger root
      2 ea Minced green chilies
    1/4 c  Shredded unsweetened coconut
    1/2 ts Garam masala
      4 tb Ghee
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
    1/2 tb Whole cumin seeds
    1/8 ts Asafetida
      6 md Potatoes, boiled & cubed
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Coriander
      1 sm Eggplant in 1" cubes
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Fresh coriander, chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Combine ginger, green chilies & coconut in blender with 1/3 cup of
  water till smooth.  Add garam masala & pulse for a few seconds. Set
  aside.
  
  Heat ghee.  Whe hot, add mustard & cumin seeds & fry for a few
  seconds. Stir in the asafetida & almost immediately put in the
  potatoes.  Stir fry for 5 minutes Then pour in the mixture from the
  blender.  Add the turmeric, coriander, eggplant, salt & half the
  fresh coriander.  Mix very gently so as not to break the vegetables.
  
  Reduce heat & fry very gently until the liquid has evaporated.  Mix in
  lemon juice & remaining coriander greens & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Sesame Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    2/3 c  Tahini
      1 tb Curry powder
      2 tb Soy sauce
 
  Put all ingredients in a small pot & simmer.  Stir constantly.  Cook
  for 5 or 6 minutes or till mixture thickens.  Remove from heat, cover
  & let sit for a while.  Store left overs in fridge.
  
  Makes 2 cups.  Serve on mashed potatoes, biscuits, pasta or
  vegetables.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" October, 1991.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Spinach & Chick Pea Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 md Carrot, grated
    1/4 c  Raw barley
      1 ea Bay leaf
  2 1/2 c  Stock
      4 c  Cooked chick peas
    3/4 lb Spinach, steamed & chopped
      1 sm Zucchini, diced
  1 1/2 ts Favourite curry powder
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Cumin
           Salt & pepper
      2 c  Stock
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Heat oil & saute garlic for 1 minute.  Add carrot, barley, bay leaf &
  2 1/2 c stock.  Bring to a boil, cover & simmer for 15 minutes.
  Puree half the chick peas & add to the pot with the spinach, zucchini
  & seasonings. Simmer covered for another 10 minutes.  Add the rest of
  the chick peas, the remaining stock & lemon juice.  Simmer gently for
  another 15 minutes until the barley is tender.
  
  Adapted from Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Whole Chick Peas (Chole)
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian, Main dish, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Chick peas
  5 1/2 c  Water
      1 ea Bay leaf
      5 tb Ghee
      1 ea 2" cinnamon stick
      6 ea Black peppercorns
    1/2 ts Black cardamom seeds
      8 ea Whole cloves
      1 tb Whole cumin seeds
      1 tb Grated ginger
      1 ts Minced green chili
      1 ts Turmeric
  1 1/2 ts Hungarian paprika
      1 tb Coriander
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/8 ts Asafetida
      1 ea Large tomato, diced
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Coarsely chopped coriander
 
  Rinse the chick peas & soak them.  Drain well.  Add the chick peas to
  the water with the bay leaf & a small amount of ghee.  Bring to a
  boil & simmer for 1 hour.  Drain & reserve the liquid.
  
  Using a mortar & pestle, grind the cinnamon stick, peppercorns,
  cardamom, cloves & cumin seeds.  Heat 3 tb ghee in a skillet.  When
  hot, stir in the ginger root, chilies & fry till browned.  Remove
  from heat & sprinkle in the turmeric, paprika, coriander, cayenne &
  asafetida.  Return to heat & add diced tomato.  Stir fry for 4 to 5
  minutes.
  
  Stir in salt, chick peas, 1/2 cup of reserved cooking water & lemon
  juice. Simmer till the liquid has appreciably thickened.  Sprinkle
  with the crushed spices & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy-Free Pasta "Cheese" Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Minced green onions
      2 tb Olive oil or water for
           -sauteeing
      1 tb Whole wheat pastry flour
      3 tb Nutritional yeast
  1 1/2    To 2 cups water
      2 tb Sesame tahini
      2 ts "chicken"-flavored vegetable
           -broth or light miso
    1/2 c  Soymilk
           Fresh ground pepper to taste
           Ground rock salt
 
   1.  Heat green onions and olive oil or water in a medium skillet and
  sautee for 3 minutes. Add flour and stir well to dissolve. Add
  nutritional yeast and slowly add water, whisking to combine
  ingredients into a smooth sauce. Stir in tahini and vegetable broth.
  
   2.  Whisking continuously, allow sauce to cook over medium heat
  until it begins to bubble. Whisk in soymilk. Cook sauce for 2
  minutes, whisking continuously until it is thick and bubbly. Season
  with freshly ground black pepper and ground rock salt, if desired.
  
   Yields 1 1/2 to 2 cups of sauce, enough for one pound of pasta.
  
   Variation: Stir 2 cups of cooked corn into finished sauce and pour
  over 1 pound of thin green pasta.
  
   From _American Vegetarian Cookbook_ by Marilyn Diamond
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Date Muffins
 Categories: Muffin, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Cooking dates, chopped
      1 c  Boiling water
      2 tb Vegetable oil/vegetable
           -- shortening
  1 3/4 c  All purpose white flour
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped
 
  Combine dates, water & oil or shortening.  Let cool.
  
  Combine the baking soda with the flour & mix well.  Add the brown
  sugar, baking powder, vanilla, salt & nuts to the date mixture.  Mix
  well.  Gently fold in the flour & baking soda mixture.  If too dry,
  add a little more water.
  
  Bake in greased muffin pans at 325F for 25 minutes, or until cooked
  through.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Fried Tofu with Plum Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu
    1/2 c  Sesame seeds
      2 tb Cornstarch
      3 tb Whole-wheat flour
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 lb Red plums, pitted, peeled &
           -- chopped
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Teriyaki sauce
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
           Water to cover
 
  Cut tofu into 1" squares.  Mix together sesame seeds, cornstarch &
  flour. Roll tofu in sesame mixture till well coated.  Heat oil in
  skillet till hot. Fry squares till well browned.  Drain on paper
  towels & set aside.
  
  Place the rest of the ingredients in a pot.  Add just enough water to
  cover by 1/2".  Bring to a boil then simmer for 20 minutes.  Blend
  till smooth. Pour into a serving bowl.
  
  To serve, place toothpicks in tofu cubes.  Arrange on a platter &
  serve warm with the sauce.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep-Fried Tofu
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM------------------FORMATTED BY S.GRABOWSKI-----------------------
      1 lb Tofu, cut in 1/2 inch cubes
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
      3 tb Cornstarch
           Vegetable oil for deep fry
           Soy sauce ->OR<-
           Sweet and sour sauce
 
  1) Roll the tofu cubes in the wheat germ mixed with cornstarch. Heat
  the oil to 350F on a deep-fat frying thermometer. 2) Fry the cubes, a
  few at a time, in a basket in the hot oil. Drain on paper towels and
  keep warm while making the remainder. 3) Serve with soy sauce or
  sweet and sour sauce dip. From The New York Times New Natural Foods
  Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep-Fried Yellow Bean Paste (Baa Yir)
 Categories: Appetizer, Thai, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      4 oz Dried moong beans
           -- soaked in water for 30
           -- minutes, and drained
      1 tb Plain flour
      2 ts Red curry paste
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
      2    Kaffir lime leaves
           - rolled into a cigarette &
           - finely sliced into slivers
           Oil; for deep-frying

MMMMM-------------------------THE SAUCE------------------------------
      4 tb Sugar
      6 tb Rice vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  In a mortar pound the drained moong beans to form a paste.  Add the
  other ingredients in turn, stirring well.  Pluck a small piece of the
  paste and form into a ball the size of a walnut.  Do not mould too
  tightly. Deep-fry the balls until golden brown, drain and serve with
  the thick sweet sauce below.
  
  THE SAUCE: Gently heat the three ingredients until the sugar
  dissolves. Allow to cool before serving.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep-Fried Bean Curd Stir-Fried with Mushrooms and Brocco
 Categories: Vegetarian, Chinese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2    Cakes bean curd
           Vegetable oil
           -- for deep-frying
      6 md Chinese dried mushrooms
      1 md Onion
      8 oz Broccoli
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      3 sl Ginger root
      4 tb Vegetarian stock

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Hoisin sauce
      2 ts Chili sauce
      1 ts Sugar
 
  Cut the bean curd into 1- x 1-1/2-inch flat pieces.  Deep-fry them in
  hot oil for 2 to 2-1/2 minutes, until the surfaces are somewhat firm
  and yellow.  Drain thoroughly.  Soak the mushrooms in boiling water
  for half an hour.  Drain.  Discard the stems and cut the caps into
  halves.  Cut the onion into thin slices.  Break the broccoli into
  individual florets and cut the stem into 1-inch wedges.
  
  Heat the vegetable oil in a large frying pan or wok.  When hot, add
  the onion, ginger, broccoli stems, and mushrooms and stir-fry in the
  hot oil for 2 mintues, to season the oil.  Add the broccoli and stock
  and continue to stir-fry for 1-1/2 minutes, and then cook, covered,
  for 1-1/2 minutes. Uncover the pan or wok, pour the sauce ingredients
  over the contents, and continue to turn and stir-fry all ingredients
  together for a further 1-1/2 minutes.  Serve with rice and other
  dishes.
  
  Source: New Chinese Vegetarian Cooking by Kenneth Lo Typed for you by
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Devil's Food Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  All purpose flour
      3 ts Cocoa powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 ts White vinegar
      1 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      6 ts Vegetable oil
 
  Sift dry ingredients into a bowl.  Add the liquid in order, stirring
  well after each addition.  Mix until smooth.  Bake at 350F for 35
  minutes in a square pan.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dhansak
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Mixed legumes
      3 c  Water
      1 lb Mixed vegetables
      4 tb Ghee
      1 sm Onion, diced.
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ea Green chili, chopped
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      2 ts Garam masala
           Salt to taste
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Chopped cilantro
 
  Wash legumes & soak for an hour.
  
  Place water & legumes in a large pot & bring to a boil.  Cut
  vegetables into bite sized pieces & add to the legumes.   Cook for 10
  minutes.
  
  Heat ghee in a separate pot & saute onion & garlic till golden.  Stir
  in chili, turmeric & garam masala.  Mix thouroughly.
  
  Transfer legumes & vegetables into pot with ghee mixture & stir well.
  Add salt & cook for another 20 minutes until everything is tender.
  
  Add lemon juice & cilantro & serve hot.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dolma Ici Zeytinyagli (Rice Stuffing for Vegetables)
 Categories: Asian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Long grained rice
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 c  Water
      1 lg Tomato
      1 md Onion
           Few sprigs dill & parsley
      1 oz Pine nuts (pignoli)
      1 ts Sugar (more to taste)
      1 pn Thyme
           Salt and pepper
      1 oz Currants
 
  This stuffing is for eggplants, pepper, tomatoes and zucchini. It is
  made with olive oil and served as a cold vegetable dish.
  
  Slice onion very finely, skin and roughly chop tomato and wash the
  rice until the water runs clear. Heat the olive oil in a deep pot and
  fry the onion until it becomes soft. Add the tomato, pine nuts,
  currants, sugar, thyme and season and then stir in the drained rice
  and fry them together for two or three minutes. Cover with just
  enough water to come half an inch above the the level of the rice and
  then boil out the water and steam for a few minutes until the rice
  mixture is dry. Allow to cool. Stuff veggies with mixture, arrange in
  a flat roasting pan, cover each one with its lid (after insides are
  scooped out and sprinkled w/ salt). Pour around them enough water to
  come half-way up their sides. Bake in a 350 oven for 45 min. or until
  they are well cooked through & soft, but have not lost their shape.
  Sprinkle w/ chopped dill and parsley. Enough stuffing for 2 pounds of
  peppers.
  
  Recipe from "Home Book of Turkish Cookery" by Venice Lamb.
  
  Posted by DEBORAH AKYUREK, Prodigy ID# DNJS60B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Domatosoupa Me Spaghetti
 Categories: Soup/stew, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    455 g  Tinned tomatoes, sieved
      2    Celery sticks, chopped
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Large carrot, chopped
      1    Medium potato, diced
     60 ml Olive oil
           Sea Salt
           Black pepper
     22 g  Wholemeal spaghetti 1" bits
 
  Put the tomatoes in a saucepan Add 1.8l of water Add the celery,
  onion, carrot, oil, salt and pepper. Simmer for 30 minutes then add
  the spaghetti Serve when the spaghetti is cooked (about 10-15 minutes)
  
  Posted by Kaz Dunkley
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Drunkard's Noodles (Gueyteow Pad Ki Mow)
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
      2 sm Fresh red or green chilis
           -- finely chopped
      4 oz Sen yai noodles
      1 sm Onion; cut into segments
      1 md Tomato; cut into segments
      4    Kaffir lime leaves
           -- roughly chopped
      6    Sweet basil leaves
      1 ts Dark soy sauce
      2 tb Light soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 sm Sweet red or green pepper
           -- finely chopped
 
  This is a favourite hangover dish - the chilis kick-start the
  benumbed body while the lime leaf refreshes and clears the jaded
  palate.
  
  In a wok or frying pan/skillet, heat the oil until a light haze
  appears. Add the garlic and chilis and fry until the garlic is golden
  brown.  Add the noodles, stir, add the remaining ingredients and stir
  well until the peppers begin to cook but are still al dente.  Turn on
  to a dish.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typos by:
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 2/3 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    2/3 c  Cocoa powder
      2 c  White sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  Water
      2 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  Vegetable oil
      2 ts White vinegar
 
  Sift dry ingredients into a bowl.  Add liquid.  Mix well.  Transfer
  to 13 X 9 X 2-inch pan.  Bake at 350F for 35 minutes.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 md Onions, coarsely chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes, diced
      2 ts Oregano
      1 ts Basil
      2 ts Parsley
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Black pepper
     28 oz Can tomatoes
      7 c  Stock
 
  Heat oil in large soup pot.  When hot, saute onion for 5 minutes,
  take care not to let it brown.  Add potatoes and fry for, covered for
  3 minutes. Add oregano, basil, parsley, salt & pepper.  Cook covered
  for 2 minutes. Add tomatoes and cook for another 5 minutes.  Add the
  stock, bring to a boil, reduce heat & simmer for 20 minutes, or until
  the potatoes are tender. Check seasonings.  Let cool, blend till
  smooth. Reheat before serving, but take care not to let it boil.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggless Mayo ("Better 'n Hellman's")
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Edensoy (Original)
  2 2/3 c  Oil
      2 tb Cider Vinegar
      1 tb Maple Syrup (or sugar)
      1 ts Salt

MMMMM------------------------NOW TRY THIS-----------------------------
 
  Directions: Place soy milk in food processor (or blender).  Put on
  lowest setting.  Drizzle oil into soy milk.  Add other ingredients. I
  add about the same amount of lemon juice in addition to the vinegar.
  Someatimes I add one tablespoon of dry mustard.  You've got to try
  adding basil and/or sage and/or oregeno.
  
  I've also never had a problem adding all the vinegar, syrup, salt,
  etc. to the soy milk first and then adding the oil.
  
  You cannot fail.  Try it.
  
  I got the basic recipe from Shirley Wilkes-Johnson.  She is a gourmet
  cook and inventor.
  
  JORGE [Jorge]                at 21:02 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant a la Provencale
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lg Eggplants
           Coarse salt
           Olive oil
      2 lb Ripe tomatoes
      3 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Sugar
           Salt & pepper
           Parsley to garnish
 
  Cut unpeeled eggplants into 1/2" diagonal slices, spread slices onto a
  cutting board, sprinkle with salt & press with a plate to get rid of
  excess liquid.  Allow to drain for 30 minutes.  Wipe with a damp
  cloth.
  
  Heat enough olive oil to cover bottom of a large skillet.  Fry gently
  over medium heat, turning often till tender.  Remove from pan & drain.
  
  Plunge tomatoes into boiling water for a few seconds, peel & deseed.
  Saute remaining pulp in a little olive oil till soft.  Add garlic &
  parsley. Cover, reduce heat & cook for 30 to 40 minutes.  Remove from
  heat, cool, add lemon juice, sugar, salt & pepper.
  
  Place eggplant in a shallow serving dish or glass bowl.  Pour tomato
  mixture on top & chill till ready to serve.  Garnish with parsley
  sprigs.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Bharta
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Eggplants, halved
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 ea Green chilies, chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Cilantro, chopped
      1 tb Ghee
    1/2 ts Oil
 
  Rub the ghee over the cut side of the eggplant.  Roast until the skin
  is lightly burned.  The eggplant should be completely soft & tender.
  Peel & mash the pulp with a potato masher.  Mix well with onion,
  chilis, salt, cilantro & oil.  Fry in a skillet with a little oil for
  3 to 5 minutes. The mixture should be fairly dry.
  
  Chakravarti & Morizot, "Not Everything we Eat is Curry"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Provencale
 Categories: Main dish, French, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Uncooked brown rice
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 pn Saffron
      3 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           ----------------------------
      2 tb Olive oil
      3 md Eggplants
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sherry
           ----------------------------
      2 tb Olive  oil
      3 c  Minced onions
      1 lg Red bell pepper, minced
      1 tb Sherry
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      2 md Tomatoes, chopped
    1/2 c  Dried currants
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Black pepper
           ----------------------------
    1/2 c  Tomato juice
    1/2 c  Toasted slivered almonds
           Chopped fresh parsely
 
  Cook rice, sauteing it in olive oil & crumbling in the saffron before
  adding the water & salt.
  
  Brush a large baking pan with olive oil.  Leaving the stems on, slice
  the eggplants in half lengthwise & place face down on the pan.  Add
  sherry & water.  Cover tightly with aluminum & bake at 375F till
  tender, about 45 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, saute the onions in 2 tb olive oil for 10 minutes.  Add
  peppers, 1 tb sherry & cayenne.  Saute covered for 5 minutes.  Stir
  in tomatoes, currants, parsley & black pepper.  Simmer covered for a
  few minutes. Combine rice & vegetable mixture.
  
  When eggplants are cool enough to handle, gently mash them & push the
  soft middle to the side.  Mound the rice pilaf on each eggplant half.
  Pour tomato juice into baking pan, cover tightly & return to oven to
  bake about 30 minutes.  Serve garnished with almonds & parsley.
  
  "New Recipes From Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Salad
 Categories: Appetizer, Salad, Misc/food
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Eggplant, peeled & cubed
      1 lb Tomatoes, chopped
      2 ts Hungarian paprika
      1 ts Salt
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
           Tabasco sauce to taste
      4 tb Olive oil
 
  In a pot, cover eggplant with cold water, bring to a boil & cook for
  1/2 an hour.  Drain & press with a spoon to remove excess moisture.
  
  Combine eggplant & tomatoes with remaining ingredients.  Saute in
  moderately hot olive oil for 5 minutes.  Stir & mash ingredients
  together as sauteing.  Chill before serving.
  
  "The Africa News Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Stuffing
 Categories: Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 md Eggplants (1 lb ea.)
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/3 c  Chopped scallions
           -=OR=- Shallots
      1    Garlic clove; sliced (opt.)
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      2 tb Chopped fresh fennel or dill
    1/2 ts Allspice; more if necessary
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Tomato paste; MIXED WITH:
    1/2 c  Water
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
 
  Cut the eggplants in half lengthwise.  With a small knife, cut away
  the eggplant flesh from the skin without breaking the skin (if
  planning to stuff the shells, leave 1/4-inch of the flesh with the
  skin as a firm base) and set the shells aside.  Dice the eggplant
  flesh and push through the medium blade of a meat grinder as quickly
  as possible to avoid discoloration.  (Or the eggplant may be pureed
  in a blender or food processor.)
  
  Heat the oil in a frying pan and saute the scallions and garlic.  Add
  the parsley, fennel, allspice, wine, and the diluted tomato paste.
  Stir in the eggplant pulp, season with salt and pepper, and simmer
  for 20 minutes. Taste to adjust seasonings.  Add the bread crumbs to
  absorb excess liquid.
  
  Stuff the eggplant shells, if desired, and place in an oiled baking
  dish. Bake in a moderate oven (350 F) for 35 minutes.  Serve warm - or
  particularly good - cold.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles.  Avenel
  Books, New York. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant with Quinoa and Chickpeas
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Eggplants (sm. to med.)
           -water to fill large pot
      1 c  Quinoa
  2 1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Water
      1 sm Onion; peeled, chopped, -OR-
    1/2 lg -Onion, peeled and chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1    Poblano pepper
           - seeded and chopped fine
      1    Banana or hungarian pepper
           - seeded and chopped fine
    1/2 c  Tomato puree or tomato sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           - to taste
    1/4 c  Ground walnuts
      1 c  Cooked chickpeas
      1 tb Wheat flour
      1 tb Gluten flour
 
  Preparation time: 20 minutes Baking Time: 1 hour
  
  In a large pot, bring water to boil. Slice the eggplant in half and
  scoop out the insides. Place the eggplant shells in the water and
  cook until soft, about 10 minutes. Chop the eggplant insides and set
  aside to saute.
  
  In another saucepan, bring the quinoa and water to a boil, then
  reduce the heat, cover, and cook until all the water is absorbed,
  about 15 minutes.
  
  In a large frying pan, add the water and heat over medium heat. Then
  add the onion, garlic, peppers, and the eggplant insides, and saute,
  adding a little more water as needed. Then add the tomato puree,
  salt, pepper, walnuts, and chickpeas. Cover and simmer about 5
  minutes, stirring occasionally.
  
  Preheat oven to 350.
  
  Turn off the heat for all three pans. Drain the eggplant shells from
  the water. Add the cooked quinoa, wheat flour, and gluten flour to the
  vegetable saute and stir well. Place the eggplant shells in a large
  casserole dish with a cover. Fill the eggplant shells with the quinoa
  mixture. Put the cover on the casserole dish, and place in the oven.
  Bake at 350 for 1 hour. Serve with a steamed vegetable, such as
  cauliflower, and a green salad, such as a spinach salad.
  
  ~Mary Howard From: howard@iscsvax.uni.edu @Newsgroups: rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Yeast Bake
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, diced
      3 lg Onions, sliced
      4 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Wholewheat flour
    1/2 c  Nutritional yeast
      1 c  Water
      3 tb Tahini
      1 lg Eggplant, peeled & cut into
           -- 1/4 inch thick rounds
    1/4 ts Paprika
 
  Heat oil in a frying pan over medium heat.  Add garlic, onions &
  saute for 5 minutes.  Season with 1 tb tamari & half the garlic,
  basil & salt.
  
  In a small pot, combine the flour & nutritional yeast.  Add water,
  tahini & the rest of the seasonings.  Mix well.  Over a low heat,
  cook slowly for 15 minutes, stirring frequently until the sauce
  thickens.  If too thick, add more liquid.
  
  Oil an 8 X 12 inch baking dish.  Pour in a layer of sauce, then a
  layer of sliced eggplant & a layer of onions.  repeat the layering,
  finishing with the sauce.  Sprinkle with Paprika.
  
  Bake at 350F for 30 minutes.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant, Red Pepper & Spinach Curry
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian, Curries
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Eggplant, cubed
           Salt
      1 lg Spanish onion, chopped
      2 tb Ghee
      1 tb Grated ginger
      1 tb Cumin
      2 ts Coriander
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/8 ts Cayenne
    1/8 ts Ground cardamom
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Apple juice
      1 c  Water
     10 oz Spinach, washed, stemmed
      2 ea Red bell peppers, cubed
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Sprinkle eggplant with salt, place in a colander & set aside for 20
  to 30 minutes.
  
  In a medium pot, heat ghee.  Saute onion till translucent.  Add all
  the spices in order & saute for 2 minutes, stirring constantly.
  
  Rinse eggplant.  Add to the pot along with the apple juice & water.
  Cover & simmer over low heat for 10 to 15 minutes.
  
  In another pot, cook the spinach in a very small amount of water till
  it becomes limp but remains bright green.  Drain & cool.  Chop when
  cool enough to handle.
  
  Add bell pepper to the eggplant, cook for 5 minutes.  Stir in spinach,
  lemon juice & extra salt if required.  Simmer for 2 to 3 minutes.
  
  Serve over rice toped with toasted cashew nuts.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant-Spinach Curry
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable, Vegetarian, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
     12    Garlic cloves; minced
      2 lb Spinach; rinsed, dried,
           - and finely chopped
      1 md Eggplant
           - cut into 1/2" cubes
      1    Piece ginger root (1-inch)
           -peeled and grated
    1/4 ts Jalapeno chiles, minced
    1/4 ts Tumeric powder
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      2 md Tomatoes; finely chopped
           Salt
           Cilantro sprigs, for garnish
 
  Heat the oil with half of the mustard seeds in a large saucepan.  Add
  remaining mustard seeds when the cooked seeds begin to pop.  Add the
  garlic and saute until tender.
  
  Add the spinach, a small amount at a time, stirring occasionally to
  keep the spinach from scorching.  When the spinach wilts, add the
  eggplant, ginger, jalapeno chiles, tumeric, paprika, coriander, and
  cumin.  Saute to blend the flavors.  Cover, and cook over medium-low
  heat for 15 minutes. Add the tomatoes and season to taste with salt.
  Cook, uncovered, 5 minutes longer.  Garnish with cilantro.
  
  Source: Dhaba Cuisine of India restaurant - Santa Monica, California
  :       Best Recipes from the Los Angeles Times
  :       ISBN: 0-8109-1237-6
  :       Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant-Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Olive oil
    3/4 c  Dry sherry
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/4 c  Celery, chopped
      1 c  Peeled, cubed eggplant
    1/2 c  Minced red bell pepper
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      3 c  Plum tomatoes, chopped
      1 tb Fresh basil
           Salt & pepper
 
  In a large skillet, heat oil & sherry till bubbling.  Add onion &
  cook for 5 minutes.  Add garlic, eggplant & pepper.  Cover & cook for
  2 minutes. Add nutmeg, basil & tomatoes.  Bring to a boil, lower heat
  & simmer, uncovered for 20 minutes.
  
  Season to taste. Serve immediately over cooked pasta.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" September, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: English Muffins
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Warm water
      1 tb Dry yeast
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  Unbleached white flour
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
 
  In a bowl, mix water, yeast, oil & salt.  Beat in the white flour,
  followed by the whole wheat flour.  Mix well.  Oil the dough's
  surface & allow to proof till light, about 25 minutes.
  
  Knead dough slightly, till soft.  Cut into 6 poeces & roll each piece
  in cornmeal.  Form each ball into muffins, 3 3?4 inches in diameter.
  Place on a cookie sheet.
  
  Preheat oven to 350F & bake for 15 minutes.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ethiopian Ambasha
 Categories: Bread, Misc/food
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Active dry yeast
    1/4 c  Warm water
      2 tb Ground coriander
      1 ts Ground cardamom
    1/2 ts White pepper
      1 ts Ground fenugreek
      2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
  1 1/4 c  Lukewarm water
      5 c  Unbleached flour
      1 tb Cayenne
      2 tb Oil
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
      1 pn Ground cloves
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
 
  Dissolve the yeast in warm water for 10 minutes. Add the coriander,
  cinnamon, white pepper, fenugreek, salt, oil and lukewarm water, and
  stir well. Slowly add the flour until a mass forms. On a floured
  board, knead the dough for 10 minutes or until it is smooth and tiny
  bubbles form. (note: this recipe makes a stickier dough than usual)
  
  Reserve a 1-inch piece of dough. With floured hands spread the dough
  out on an ungreased pizza pan. Using a sharp knife, score the dough
  in a design similar to the spokes of a bicycle wheel. Place the
  reserved ball of dough in the center of the scored dough. Cover and
  let rise one hour.
  
  Bake at 350F  for an hour or until golden brown. Combine the topping
  ingredients in a small bowl. While still warm brush the bread with
  topping. Yield: 1 16-inch loaf.
  
  "The African News Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Falafel (Lebanese)
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Chick peas; (soaked for 24 h
      1 md Onion
      1 md Potato; peeled
      4    Garlic cloves
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 ts Cumin
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      1 tb Flour
           Vegetable oil for frying
      2 ts Baking soda
 
  Drain chick peas. Quarter onion and potato. Run all through fine
  holes of the meat grinder along with the garlic two times. Add all
  remaining ingredients except baking soda and vegetable oil. Mix well.
  Run through grinder once more. Mix again. Cover and leave to rest for
  two to three hours. Heat oil for deep frying. While oil is heating
  add baking soda to the chick pea mixture. With dampened hands, form
  mixture into balls the size of a walnut, then flatten slightly into a
  patty. Deep fry, making sure patties are cooked through and are
  golden brown. Remove from oil with a slotted spoon and drain on paper
  towels. Shared by Rita Taule, Prodigy ID# BTVC62A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Falafel Golden Domes with Tahini Sauce
 Categories: Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Chickpeas; soaked overnight,
           -   cooked, and drained.
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      2 ts Ground cinnamon
      2 ts Ground cumin
      1 bn Parsley; minced
      1 md Onion; grated
      4    Scallions; minced
      2 tb Fresh cilantro, chopped
      3 c  Vegetable oil
      4    Pita breads; warmed
      1    Tomato; finely chopped
      2    Lemons; juiced

MMMMM------------------------TAHINI SAUCE-----------------------------
    2/3 c  Tahini (sesame paste)
      3 tb -Water (or as needed)
      2    Lemons, juiced
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 tb Fresh parsley, minced
           Black pepper
 
  Remove the skins from the cooked chickpeas by rubbing them with a dish
  towel.
  
  Place the chickpeas in a food processor and pure them.
  
  Add the garlic, baking powder, coriander, cumin, parsley, onions,
  scallions, and cilantro.  Blend the ingredients together so that a
  smooth paste is formed.  Add some water if necessary.  Let the
  mixture rest for 30 minutes.
  
  Form the paste into patties that are 2" in diameter and 1/2" thick.
  
  In a medium large saucepan place the vegetable oil and heat it on
  medium high until it is hot.  Add the patties and deep-fry them for 2
  to 3 minutes, or until they are golden brown.  Drain them on paper
  towels.
  
  In each of the pita breads place some of the falafel, tomatoes, lemon
  juice, and Tahini Sauce.
  
  For Tahini Sauce: In a small bowl place the tahini, water, and lemon
  juice. Mix the ingredients together so that a smooth sauce is formed
  (add more water if necessary).
  
  Add the garlic, parsley, and black pepper.  Mix them in so that they
  are well blended.
  
  Makes 1 cup.
  
  Source: Papa Garo's - Redondo Beach, California "Southern California
  Beach Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fanchie-Dofu
 Categories: Chinese, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 oz Tofu
      5 tb Oil
      1 ts Salt
      2    Tomatoes, cut into 8 wedges
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      1 ts Sake
      3 tb Water
    1/2    Leek or onion, diced
      1 tb Cornstarch dissolved in 3 tb
           -- water
      1 c  Green peas, parboiled
 
  Cut tofu lengthwise into half, then crosswise into 1/2-inch thick
  pieces. In a small pot, bring 3 cups of water to a boil.  Drop in the
  tofu & return to a boil.  Then quickly empty the tofu into a colander
  to drain.
  
  Heat a wok & coat with 4 tb oil & the salt.  Add tomatoes & saute till
  soft.  Add tofu, garlic & sake.  Saute for 2 or 3 minutes.  Add water
  & leek.  Reduce heat & simmer for 4 to 5 minutes.  Stir in dissolved
  cornstarch & remaining oil.  Simmer for 1 more minute until thick.
  Add peas just before serving.
  
  Shurtleff & Aoyagi, "The Book of Tofu"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fasoulada
 Categories: Greek, Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    170 g  Haricot beans
    1/2    Chopped leek
      1    Chopped carrot
      1    Chopped onion
      1    Chopped celery stick
    220 g  Canned tomatoes
    100 ml Olive oil
           Sea Salt
           Black pepper
    1/8 ts Paprika
      1    Small potato
 
  Soak the beans overnight. Rinse and then add water. Boil and cook for
  15 minutes.
  
  Change the water and boil, then simmer until the beans show signs of
  splitting.
  
  Pass the tomatoes through a sieve and add to the beans with the other
  ingredients.
  
  Add more water if needed and simmer until the vegetables and beans are
  tender.
  
  Posted by Kaz Dunkley
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fava Bean Salata
 Categories: Greek, Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dried fava or butter beans
           - soaked overnight in water
    1/3 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
      1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
    1/3 c  Finely diced carrot
    1/3 c  Finely diced celery
      1    Bay leaf; crumbled
  2 1/2 tb Minced flat-leaf parsley
           Sea salt; to taste
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
           - or more to taste
      1 sl Coarse-grain bread
           - crust removed, and soaked
           - for 5 minutes in:
      2 tb Olive oil; (or to taste)
      1 sm Lemon; juiced

MMMMM------------------------FOR SERVING-----------------------------
      1 pn Paprika; (generous)
 
  Drain the dried beans and place in large saucepan with cold water to
  cover. Bring slowly to a boil, drain and rinse.  Rinse out the
  saucepan, return the beans to the pan, and add cold water to cover by
  3 inches. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, cover, and gently simmer
  25 to 30 minutes, or until soft.  Drain, reserving 1/2 cup of the
  cooking liquid. Remove the fava bean skins with your fingers and
  spread the beans between layers of paper towels to dry.
  
  Heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil in a large heavy skillet.  Saute
  the onion, garlic, carrot, celery, and bay leaf over medium-low heat
  for 15 to 20 minutes, or until dark golden brown, stirring
  occasionally with a wooden spoon.
  
  Transfer to a food processor or blender container and add the bread.
  With the machine running, add about two thirds of the lemon juice and
  2 tablespoons of the olive oil, and process until thick and smooth.
  Add a few tablespoons of water if the puree seems too thick, and add
  salt, pepper, olive oil, and/or lemon juice to taste.
  
  Serve on a platter, sprinkled with the remaining parsley and olive
  oil and the paprika.
  
  To make the traditional way:  Pound the cooked vegetable-bean mixture
  and the bread in a large wooden mortar for 5 minutes.  Slowly add
  about two thirds of the lemon juice and then 3/4 cup of the olive
  oil.  Pound for 5 minutes longer, and add salt, pepper, olive oil,
  and/or lemon juice to taste.
  
  Rosemary Barron, "Flavors of Greece"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fennel, Orange and Caper Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ea Fennel bulbs
      1 tb Capers;drained
      1 tb Dill, fresh; chopped

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/4 ea Orange; seeded
      2 ts Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts -Salt
      4 tb Olive oil
 
  Trim the stalks from the fennel, cut the bulb in half lengthwise;
  then cut crosswise into very thin slices. Place in a large bowl with
  the capers and the dill. Make the dressing. Cut the quarter orange in
  small pieces and place in the work bowl of a food processor with the
  vinegar, mustard, sugar and salt. Process until smooth. With the
  motor running slowly, pour in the olive oil. Pour over the fennel,
  toss well and serve. SERVES:4
  
  David Wood "The David Wood Food Book"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Five Dahl Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Indian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Mung beans
      3 tb Pigeon peas
      3 tb Yellow split peas
      3 tb Green split peas
      3 tb Chick peas
      7 c  Stock
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Coriander
      1 tb Shredded ginger root
      3 tb Ghee
      1 ts Salt
      4 oz Fresh spinach
      2 ts Whole cumin seeds
      2 ts Minced green chilies
      1 ea Bay leaf
    1/8 ts Asafetida
    1/4 ts Cayenne
    1/2 ts Garam masala
      2 tb Chopped coriander
 
  Sort & wash the legumes.  Combine in a bowl & soak in hot water for 1
  hour. Drain.
  
  Combine the legumes with the stock, turmeric, coriander, ginger root
  & 1 tb of the ghee in a ;arge pot.  Bring to a boil & simmer covered
  for 1 1/2 hours.  Stir occasionally.
  
  Remove the pot from the heat, add the salt & beat with a whisk till
  the soup is quite smooth.  Add the coarsely chopped spinach & cook
  gently for 10 minutes.
  
  Heat the reamining ghee.  When hot, add the cumin & chilies.  Fry for
  20 seconds then add the bay leaf, asafetida & cayenne.  A few seconds
  later, add 3 tb water.  Cook for a minute or so & then pour into the
  soup. Sprinkle in the garam masala & coriander & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fragrant Coconut Rice
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 lb Finely chopped onion
      2 c  Long-grain rice, cooked
      1 ts Tumeric
      2 ts Salt
      2 c  Fresh or canned coconut milk
    2/3 c  Stock (chicken or vegetable)
      2    Whole cloves
      1    Whole cinnamon stick
           -OR- Chinese cinnamon bark
      2    Bay leaves
 
  Heat the oil in a large casserole until moderately hot.  Add the
  onion and stir-fry for 2 minutes.  Put in the rice, tumeric, and
  salt, and continue to cook for 2 minutes.
  
  Add the coconut milk and stock and bring the mixture to a boil.  Stir
  in the whole cloves, cinnamon, and bay leaves.  Turn the heat as low
  as possible and let the rice cook undisturbed for 20 minutes.  It is
  ready to serve when the rice is cooked.
  
  Source: Asian Vegetarian Feast - by Ken Hom William Morrow and
  Company, Inc. - New York ISBN: 0-688-07753-6 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Freezer Strawberry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 qt Ripe strawberries
      4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ea Bottle of liquid pectin
 
  Crush berries thoroughly.  Place in a large bowl.  Add sugar, mix
  well & let stand.  Mix lemon juice & add certo.  Stir until all sugar
  crystals are dissolved.  Ladle quickly into jars & leave to set, it
  may take 24 hours. Store in freezer.  Will keep in the fridge for 3
  weeks.
  
  "The Settlement Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Unbleached white flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Wheatgerm
      1 tb Dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water
 
  In a bowl, stir together 3 c flour with salt & wheatgerm.  Combine the
  yeast & the water & set aside till the yeast starts to work.
  
  Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients & pour in the yeast &
  water.  Slowly work in the flour from the sides of the bowl, then
  beat the mixture vigorously until thoroughly stirred together.  This
  is a sticky dough.
  
  Flour a board & turn out the dough.  Turn the bread so that is coated
  on all sides.  Knead thoroughly.
  
  Fold dough in half & roll out into a narrow shape about 12 inches
  long. Set on an oiled pan & allow to rise till it is doubled in size.
  
  Preheat oven to 375F & bake for 45 minutes.
  
  Adapted from Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Mushroom Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 ea Mushrooms
      1 c  Olive oil
     12 sm Pearl onions
      2 sm Boston lettuce heads
      2 lg Tomatoes
      2 ea Celery stalks, diced
      1 sm Lemon, juiced
      2 ts Tomato paste
      1 ea Sprig fresh thyme, chopped
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 ts Coriander seeds
      4 oz Dry white wine
           Salt & pepper
 
  Clean mushrooms.  Leave caps whole, but chop stems coarsely.  Fry in
  1/2 c oil till soft.  Set aside to drain.  Peel onions, quarter
  lettuce & slice tomatoes.  Add to a frying pan with celery, lemon
  juice, tomato paste, thyme, bay leaf, coriander, wine & the rest of
  the oil.  Season & simmer for 20 to 25 minutes.  Onions should be
  tender.
  
  Remove mushrooms to a shallow dish & bring remaining ingredients to a
  rapid boil for 4 minutes.  Pour over mushrooms & chill til lready to
  serve.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Rice Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Cooked rice
      1 c  Diced carrots
      1 c  Diced green bell pepper
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1 c  Green peas
      1 sm Celery stalk
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
           ---------MARINADE-----------
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ea Garlic clove, pressed
      1 ts Dried tarragon
      1 ts Dill
      1 ts Marjoram
      1 ts Basil
 
  Place the rice in a large bowl.  Steam the carrots, peppers,
  mushrooms & peas, separately, till tender but firm.  Add steamed
  vegetables, celery & parsley to rice.  Whisk marinade ingredients
  together.  Pour over the rice mixture & toss gently.  Refrigerate
  till well chilled, stirring occasionally.  Garnish with tomato wedges
  & green olives.
  
  "New Recipes from Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Cucumber Pickle (Ajad)
 Categories: Thai
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      4 tb Rice vinegar
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 oz Cucumber; finely chopped
      2 sm Shallots; finely chopped
      1 sm Carrot; finely chopped
      1 sm Red or green chili
           -- finely chopped
 
  Mix all ingredients in a small bowl, stirring well until thoroughly
  mixed and serve.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Mushrooms with Eggplant and Tomato
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Eggplant
           Salt
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 lg Celery stalk, chopped
      2 md Firm mushrooms, chopped
  1 1/2 ts Garlic, chopped
      1 lg Tomato, chopped
      2 tb Breadcrumbs
      1 tb Tomato paste
      5 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 ts Basil
           Fresh lemon juice
     30 md Whole mushrooms
 
  Cut eggplant in half lengthwise.  Make crisscross patterns in the
  pulp & sprinkle with salt.    Let stand for 3o minutes.  Rinse
  thoroughly & drain well, drying with paper towels.  Peel & coarsely
  chop.
  
  Heat 2 tb oil in a skillet over a medium heat.  Cook eggplant till
  softened.  Let cool.
  
  Heat remining oil & cook onion, celery, choped mushrooms & garlic for
  4 minutes.  Add tomatoes & return eggplant to skillet.  Stir in
  breadcrumbs, tomato paste & 3 tb parsley.  Add basil.  Continue to
  cook for 4 minutes.
  
  Just before serving, wipe mushrooms with cloth dampened in lemon
  juice. Carefully remove the stems.  Fill each cap with some of the
  eggplant mixture.  Sprinkle with remaining parsley & serve.
  
  You can serve the mushrooms hot by baking briefly until watm & then
  sprinkling with parsley.
  
  Joel Rapp, "Mother Earth's Vegetarian Feasts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Tomato Relish
 Categories: Vegetable, Relish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 md Onion; Cut Into Pieces
    1/2 md Green Bell Pepper; Cut Into
           -Pieces
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Celery Seed
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
      2 md Tomatoes; Cut Up
 
  Put the onion, green pepper, vinegar,sugar, celery seed, salt, and
  pepper in a blender container and blend until the pepper and onion
  are coarsely chopped.  Add the tomatoes and blend until coarsely
  chopped.  Chill and drain before serving.
  
  Yield: 1 1/4 Cups
  
  Letts, "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Beancurd with Sweet Nut Sauce (Tao Hou Tod)
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 3 servings
 
     16 oz Ready-fried beancurd
           Oil; for deep-frying
      5 tb White vinegar
      4 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      2 tb Ground roast peanuts

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
           Coriander leaves
 
  Slice the beancurd cubes in half diagonally and deep-fry the eight
  triangles until the the white side is golden brown.  Drain and
  arrange on a serving dish and set aside.
  
  In a saucepan heat the vinegar, sugar and salt until the mixture
  thickens. Remove from the heat and add the chili powder and ground
  peanuts, stirring well until all the ingredients are thoroughly
  mixed.  Turn into a serving bowl, garnish with coriander leaves and
  serve with the beancurd.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typos by:
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Curried Rice (Khao Pad Pong Kari)
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian, Main dish, Curries, Stir fry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
      2 c  Plain boiled rice
      1 sm Potato; diced small
      1 sm Onion; diced small
    1/4 c  Peas
      3 tb Light soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
      1    Piece of cucumber (1-inch)
           -- thinly sliced into rounds
           Coriander leaves
 
  In a wok or frying pan/skillet, heat the oil until a light haze
  appears, add the garlic and fry until golden brown.  Add the boiled
  rice, stir once, add all the remaining ingredients and stir until
  thoroughly mixed. Turn on to a serving dish and garnish with cucumber
  rounds and coriander.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Rice with Basil (Khao Pad Krapow)
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian, Main dish, Stir fry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
      3 sm Fresh red or green chilis
           -- finely chopped
      1 c  Fresh button mushrooms
           -- halved
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      2 c  Cooked rice
      1 sm Bundle long beans
           -OR- French/snap beans
           -- cut into 1/2" pieces
      1 sm Red or green pepper; diced
    1/2 ts Sugar
      3 tb Light soy sauce
     15    Sweet basil leaves
 
  In a wok or frying pan/skillet, heat the oil until a light haze
  appears. Add the garlic and chilis and fry until the garlic is golden
  brown.  Add the mushrooms and onions and stir quickly.  Add the
  cooked rice and stir thoroughly.  Add the long beans, peppers, sugar
  and light soy sauce and stir thoroughly.  At the last moment quickly
  stir in the basil leaves and turn on to a serving dish.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Shredded Carrots
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves
      4 ea Carrots, shredded
      2 tb Tamari
      4 tb Nutritional yeast
    1/4 ts Fresh ginger, minced
 
  Heat oil in a skillet over medium heat.  Saute garlic for 1 minute.
  Stir in carrots & remaining ingredients.  Stir fry for a few minutes,
  until carrots are just tender.  Serve.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Raisins
      2 c  Water
      2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Shortening
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 ts Baking powder
      4 c  White flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 ts Allspice
      1 ts Cloves
      1 c  Mixed fruit
      1 c  Currants
 
  In a pot, combine the first four ingredients.  Bring to a boil &
  simmer for 1 minute.  Set aside to cool.
  
  Sift together dry ingredients.  Make a well in the centre & fold in
  the boiled ingredients.  Mix well.  Bake at 300F for 60 minutes.
  Test to see if done all the way through.  If not, return to oven for
  a few more minutes.  Cool on a wire rack.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fudge Icing
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 tb Butter or vegan margarine
      3 tb Water
  1 2/3 c  Confectioners' sugar
      3 dr Vanilla extract
 
  Heat the butter or vegan margarine and water in a saucepan until
  melted. Remove from the heat and sift in the confectioners' sugar.
  Add the vanilla and beat well.  The icing will thicken up as it cools.
  
  Source: The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine - by Rose Elliot ISBN:
  0-394-57123-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gado-Gado (Vegetable Salad with Peanut Sauce)
 Categories: Asian, Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Carrots; finely sliced
      2 md Potatoes; sliced
      1 c  Cabbage; shredded
      2 c  Bean sprouts
      1 tb Oil
      1 c  Tofu; cut in 1 inch cubes
      1 c  Cucumber; sliced
      2 md Tomatoes; sliced
      1    Scallion

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 tb Oil
      1    Garlic clove; up to 2
           -crushed
      1 sm Onion; grated
      1    Green chili;finely chopped
           -OR-
      1 ts -Chili powder
    1/2 c  Peanut butter; crunchy
      1 ts Lemon juice; or vinegar
    1/2 c  Coconut, creamed; melted in
    1/2 c  -Water
           -Salt
 
  Steam or parboil the carrots & potato slices for 5 minutes. Then cook
  the cabbage, bean sprouts & cucumber for 1-2 minutes. Drain the
  vegetables and leave them to cool. If using tofu, heat 1 Tbsp oil in
  wok or pan & cook it for 3-5 minutes, turning from time to time until
  it is golden all over. Now arrange the steamed vegetables in layers
  on fat platter, potatoes, then bean sprouts, carrots & cucumber. Put
  the tomatoes and tofu on top. For the sauce, heat the oil in a wok or
  large pan. Stir fry the garlic, onion, and chili for 2-3 minutes. Add
  the peanut butter, lemon juice or vinegar and coconut milk and simmer
  for 2-3 minutes. The sauce should be thick but pourable so add more
  lemon juice/coconut milk if necessary. To serve, pour the hot sauce
  over the vegetables and garnish with scallion, onion slices.
  
  "The New Internationalist Food Book"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gala Vegetable-Nut Pate'
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Raw pecans
      1 c  Raw walnuts
      1 c  Raw sunflower seeds
    3/4 c  Chopped onions
      2 tb Spike seasoning
  2 1/3 c  Bottled water
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/2 c  Grated carrots
    1/2 c  Grated zucchini
    1/2 c  Diced red bell peppers
           Bell peppers
           -- red, yellow and green
           -- hollowed out in center
           Lettuce leaves
           Assorted crudites
 
  Place nuts, sunflower seeds, onions, Spike seasoning, and water in
  food processor, and process 25 to 30 seconds.  Pour mixture into
  medium-sized bowl.  Stir in next 5 ingredients, and chill 1 to 2
  hours.  Serve in bell pepper cups on bed of lettuce surrounded by
  cucumber & zucchini slices, celery, carrot & jicama sticks.
  
  Source: Mrs. Gooch's recipes flyer Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garbanzo Parsnip Gnocchi
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Coarsely chopped parsnips
    3/4 c  Finely diced onions
      1 tb Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Garbanzo flour
    1/4 c  Gluten flour
      2 ts Nut yeast
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
           Peanut oil; for frying
 
  Saute vegs in oil until onions are translucent and parsnips are soft.
  Process until a smooth paste is formed.  Add all remaining ingredients
  except peanut oil and blend until well mixed.  Heat oil in a 3" deep
  skillet to 375.  Fill the bowl of a tablespoon w/batter and use a
  second spoon to scoop it into the oil.  It may help to oil the spoon,
  but I haven't had any problems.  Don't fry more than four at a time
  because they get done in less than a minute and if you leave them
  longer they'll burn and the fat content will skyrocket.  Drain and
  serve.
  
  For the tomato sauce I recomend your basic homemade tomato sauce w/o
  any bay leaf but some extra red wine.  Figger it out for yourself.
  If you can't make your own tomato sauce you've already read too far;-)
  
  (also from Friendly Foods, serves 4)
  
  From: mad4@ellis.uchicago.edu (Bill Maddex)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garbanzo Stew (Lf)
 Categories: Low-cal/fat, Vegetarian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  -Water
           Onion; chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
     16 oz Tomatoes; chopped
    1/2 ts Paprika;
    1/2 ts Dried oregano;
    1/4 ts Pepper; black
        ds Hot pepper sauce;
     16 oz Garbanzo beans; drained
           -& rinsed
      1 c  Winter squash; peeled &
           -diced
  1 1/4 c  Spicy tomato juice
      2 c  Fresh spinach; chopped

MMMMM------------------------PER SERVING-----------------------------
    210 x  *cals
      7 x  *gm protein
           *gm fat
     41 x  *gm carbo
    669 x  *mg sodium
      9 x  *gm fiber
 
  Place water, onion and garlic in a large pot.  Cook, stirring
  occasionally, until onion is softened slightly, about 5 minutes. Add
  tomatoes (including tomato liquid) and seasonings.  Cook for 5 more
  minutes. Add garbanzo beans, squash and tomato juice. Cover and cook
  for 30 minutes, until squash is tender. Stir in spinach and cook
  until softened, about 2 to 3 minutes. Serves 4.
  
  Author's Note:  Serve this hearty dish over brown rice or mashed
  potatoes, or accompany it with thick slices of whole-wheat bread.
  
  Source: Vegetarian Times, May 1993 Low Fat, Fabulous and Fit by Mary
  McDougall Formatted MM:de
  
  A.ENGLISH [Al & Diane]       at 21:49 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic & Chickpea Dip
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Chickpeas, soaked & cooked
      2 ea Garlic bulbs, boiled whole
           -- for 20 minutes, drained
      4 oz Olive oil
      2 ea Juice of lemons
      3 oz Tahini
           Black pepper
      4 tb Fresh chopped parsley
           Tomatoes to garnish
 
  Blend the chickpeas till well pureed.  Squeeze the garlic cloves from
  their skins & add to the chickpeas.  Put in the oil, lemon juice &
  tahini. Blend again.  Add pepper & parsley & mix well.
  
  Put the mixture into an oiled mould & chill for 2 hours.  Turn it
  onto a plate & garnish with tomato wedges or slices.
  
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Broth
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ea Garlic heads, unpeeled but
           -- heads separated
      1 ea Bay leaf, crumbled
      6 c  Water
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
    1/2 ts Sage
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      1 pn Saffron
      1 lg Onion, peeled & quartered
      2 ea Celery stalks, cut to thirds
 
  Wrap garlic & bay leaf in a cheesecloth.  Place with all other
  ingredients in a soup pot.  Cover & bring to a boil.  Loweer heat &
  simmer for 25 minutes.  Remove from heat & let cool slightly.  Remove
  garlic & bay leaf. Puree the broth & vegetables in a blender.  Season
  to taste &f desired & serve.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Wheat Bread
 Categories: Bread, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Wholewheat bread
      5 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      1 ts Carom seeds*
           Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      1 c  Warm water
    1/4 c  Flour for dusting
 
  In a large bowl, mix the flour, garlic, carom seeds, salt, 1 tb oil &
  water until a dough is formed.  Kead for 7 to 10 minutes.  Cover &
  set aside for 20 minutes.
  
  Divide dough into 8 equal portions & roll each into a smooth ball
  into a flatcake.  Dust occasionally to prevent sticking.  Heat an
  iron griddle, brush with 1 ts oil & fry each side for 2 to 3 minutes,
  brushing on more oil when turning the bread.  Remove & keep warm.
  Repeat till all the bread has been cooked.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Feast of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Leaven
 Categories: Bread, German
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    400 g  Flour, rye
    400 cc Water, 40C
 
  1. Phase: mix 100 g flour with 100 cc water, cover and let rest for
  24-48 h at 20C. 2. Phase: add same amount and mix well, cover and
  let rest for 24 h. 3. Phase: add 200 g flour and 200 cc water, mix
  well, cover and let rest for 24 h. It should have an appetizing acid
  smell and will last for 1 bread (other recipi), leaving a rest of 100
  g leaven for the faster leaven-increase. Leaven-increase: add 100 g
  leaven, 350 g rye-flour and 350 cc water(40C), mix well and let rest
  for 12-24 h at 20C. Between two baking-circles you can store the
  leaven-rest in the fridge up to 8 days. For longer storing (up to
  four weeks) add rye-flour to the leaven til it gets crumbly.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Vegetable Medley
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Margarine
    1/2 lb Asaparagus, cut to 1" pieces
  1 1/2 c  Peas
      1 c  Sliced carrots
      1 sm Cauliflower head, cut into
           --florets
      2 ea Kohlrabi, peeled & sliced
           Salt & pepper
           Cold water
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 tb Chopped parsley
 
  In a large pot, heat margarine & saute the asparagus, peas, carrots,
  cauliflower & kohlrabi for 5 minutes stirring to ensure all are
  coated. Add a little water, salt & pepper.  Simmer till the
  vegetables are tender but still chewy.
  
  In a small bowl, mix the cornstarch with 2 tb water & add to
  vegetables stirring till sauce has thickened.  Serve with parsley.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Indian, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Ghee
      1 md Onion, sliced finely
  3 3/4 c  Vegetable stock
  2 1/2 c  Water
      1 ea 1" piece of ginger, grated
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
           Juice of 1 lemon
    3/4 lb Fresh broccoli, cut into
           -- bite sized florets
 
  Melt ghee over medium low heat & add onion.  Cook till it begins to
  brown, stirring occasionally.  Meanwhile heat stock, water, ginger in
  pot for 5 to 6 minutes, do not let boil.  Add onion, cayenne, lemon
  juice & broccoli. Cook over medium heat for 7 minutes, stir
  occasionally.  Do not let soup boil.  Serve right away.
  
  Adapted from Ismail Merchant, "Indian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Curry
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu
      1 ea 1" slice ginger, peeled
      2 ea Cloves garlic
      6 tb Water
      2 tb Peanut butter
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2 ts Mild curry powder
      1 pn Cayenne
      1 tb Oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 c  Soy milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    2/3 c  Green peas, fresh/frozen
    1/3 c  Toasted almonds
 
  Cut tofu into thin strips about 1/4" by 3/4" by 1 1/2".  Set aside.
  
  In a blender, blend ginger, garlic, water, peanut butter, soy sauce,
  1 ts curry powder & cayenne.  Pour mixture over the prepared tofu
  pieces. Gently turn & press tofu till all the liquid is absorbed.
  
  In a large skillet, heat oil & saute onion till translucent.  Add
  remaining curry powder.  Stir fry for 1 minute, then add tofu &
  continue to fry till tofu starts to brown.  Pour in soy milk, salt &
  pepper.  Bring to a simmer & add peas.  Cook for a further 3 minutes.
  Just before serving, stir in the almonds.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" March, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Stuffed Eggplant
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Eggplants
      2 ea Onions, chopped
           Oil
           Tamari
    1/4 c  Grated ginger
      9 ea Celery stalks, sliced
      3 ea Red peppers, sliced
      6 tb Peanut butter
      1 ts Curry powder
      1 ds Cayenne
      1 ds Nutmeg
 
  Cut eggplants in half lengthways.  Hollow out shells & set aside.
  Cube eggplant pulp.  Saute onions & eggplant cubes in oil till
  tender.  Add a tb or so of tamari to taste.
  
  In a large bowl, mix eggplant mixture, ginger, celery, peppers, peanut
  butter, cayenne & nutmeg.  Place in eggplant shells & bake at 350F
  for 45 minutes.
  
  Joel Rapp, "Mother Earth's Vegetarian Feasts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger-Tofu Dressing
 Categories: Japanese, Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------FROM ESTELLA DOLL (NXXS13B----------------------
    1/2 ts Ginger, finely grated
      8 oz Soft tofu
      1 ts Sea salt (coarse salt)
    1/4 c  -Water
      1 tb Sesame oil
      2 tb Brown rice vinegar
 
  Grate the ginger very fine.  Combine all in a blender and puree until
  creamy.
  
  Source Unknown, Formatted for MM by Elayne Caldwell
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingered Tofu Peanut Spread
 Categories: Sandwich, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Firm tofu; patted dry
      1 tb Tamari (soy) sauce
    2/3 c  Natural style peanut butter
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Minced fresh ginger
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      2 tb Water
 
  A little fatty but great in a sandwich with cucumber slices!
  
  Puree the tofu and tamari into a smooth thick paste. Transfer into a
  bowl. With a fork, vigorously beat in all remaining ingredients. =-If
  you are like me, just toss everything into the blender and forget the
  fork part<G>=- Let stand 30 mins at room temperature before serving.
  This will keep 3 to 5 days covered in the refrigerator.
  
  Jeanne Lemlin, "Vegetarian Pleasures"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Cauliflower with Ginger
 Categories: Side dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 sm Head cauliflower
      4 tb Light vegetable oil
      1 ts Coriander seeds
  1 1/2 tb Shredded fresh ginger
      2 ea Green chilies, chopped
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped fresh coriander
 
  Separate cauliflower into flowerets.  Wash well & drain.  Heat 3 tb
  oil over high heat ni a skillet.  When very hot, add coriander & fry
  for 10 seconds.  Add ginger & chilies & stir for a couple of seconds.
  Immediately add turmeric & salt.  Follow at once with the
  cauliflower. Stir rapidly to prevent burning & to distribute the
  spices.  Add 1/4 c hot water. Reduce heat, cover & cook for 20 to 25
  minutes, stirring once or twice during the cooking.
  
  Increase heat to medium & stir fry to evaporate remaining moisture &
  to lightly brown the cauliflower, 5 to 10 minutes.  Stir carefully.
  If vegetable looks dry, stir in the rest of the oil.  Add lemon juice
  & coriander leaves.  Serve immediately.
  
  Julie Sahni, Classic Indian Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gobhi Mung
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Yellow split mung beans
    2/3 c  Finely chopepd onions
      1 tb Grated ginger
      2 ts Minced garlic
    1/3 ts Turmeric
      3 md Potatoes, peeled, quartered
    1/3 sm Head cauliflower cut into
           -- florets
      1 ts Salt
     12 tb Ghee
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      2 ea Green chilies, seeded. shred
    1/2 ts Red pepper
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
 
  Wash mung beans.  Put in a deep pot with onions, ginger, garlic,
  turmeric & 3 cups water.  Bring to a boil & simmer for 15 minutes.
  
  Add potatoes, cauliflower, salt & another 2 cups water.  Cook for 15
  minutes.
  
  Heat ghee over high heat, when very hot, add cumin seeds & fry till
  they turn dark brown.  Add chilies & red pepper & stir briefly.  Pour
  contents into the stew.  Add lemon juice & coriander leaves.  Mix
  well.  Serve with plain cooked rice.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gracia's Black Beans
 Categories: Vegetarian, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Dry black beans
      1 ts Crushed garlic
      1 ts Salt
           Hot red pepper (optional)
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Extra virgin olive oil
      1 lg Yellow onion; minced
 
  Rinse and sort the beans and bring to a boil in a large pot of
  unsalted water. Simmer for about an hour, stirring occasionally and
  adding water when needed. Cover and soak overnight.  The next day,
  pour off the soaking water and add enough fresh water to cover the
  beans.  Bring to a boil again and let simmer (stirring occasionally
  and adding water if needed) until tender enough to eat. Strain,
  saving some of the pepper and red pepper. In the bottom of a large
  saucepan, heat enough olive oil to coat the bottom of the pan.  Add
  the garlic mixture to the hot oil and stir once. Add the minced onion
  and cook until the onion is slightly transparent. Add the beans and
  some of the liquid and heat until hot enough to eat. Serve over rice.
  
  Nutritional Information Per Serving:  Protein - 12 grams (24%);
  Carbohydrates - 33 (68%); Fat - 2 grams (9%); Calories - 192; Sodium
  ~ 535 mg.; Cholesterol - 0 mg.  Exchanges: 2 bread, 1 lean meat.
  
  These recipes are from the back of "The Whole Story" a publication of
  the Whole Foods Market... (March/April Issue)
  
  Shared by Linda Martin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Granola Bars
 Categories: Snack, Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Melted margarine
    2/3 c  Peanut butter
      2 ts Vanilla extract
      3 c  Quick oats *
    1/2 c  Sunflower seeds
    1/2 c  Coconut
    1/3 c  Wheat germ
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Carob chips
           Other nuts/dried fruits
           -you want to add
 
  *Note: (I substitute half quick oats and half crisped rice)
  
  Preheat the oven to 350 F.  Grease the bottom of a 9x12 (9x13?)
  baking dish (glass works best).  In a large bowl, combine the first 5
  ingredients and stir well (it should be sort of a paste).  Stir in
  remaining ingredients. You can add in whatever you want, so long as
  the mixture is sticking together in several large clumps.  Press the
  mixture into the baking pan ( you can use your fingers -- it's not
  very sticky).  Bake at 350 for 15 - 20 minutes (until it turns golden
  brown).  Cool completely and cut into bars. Voila!
  
  From: intgrec@lims01.lerc.nasa.gov (CHRIS GREB) Newsgroups:
  rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grape Leaves Stuffed with Rice
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5 tb Chopped onions
      1 c  Oil
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Brown rice
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Kelp
      2 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Peppermint
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Allspice
           Juice of 1 lemon
     12 ea Grape leaves
 
  Saute onions in oil till light brown.  Add 1 c water with the rice,
  salt & kelp.  Mix well.  Cover & cook till the water is absorbed.
  Remove from heat, cool slightly & add remaining spices.  Place 1
  generous ts of filling onto each grape leaf.  Make one fold up from
  the base of the leaf, tuck in the sides & roll up tightly.  Place in
  a heavy saucepan & fold down, packing the rolls tightly.  Add
  remaining cup of water & lemon juice. Cook slowly over low heat till
  almost all the liquid has been absorbed. Serve hot or cold.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Onion Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Greek, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Onions, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ea Potato, chopped
      1 ts Salt
      1 pn Ground black pepper
           A few bay leaves
    1/2 ts Marjoram
      1 c  Yogurt
      2 pt Stock
      1 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Heat oil in a pot & gently fry the onion for 2 minutes.  Add garlic,
  potato & seasonings.  Stir together.  Add yogurt & mix well.  Pour in
  stock. Bring to a boil, cover & simmer for 20 minutes.
  
  Garnish with chopped parsley.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans with Fried Bean Curd
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Chinese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ea Tofu cakes
      4 tb Oil
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Dry sherry
    1/2 lb French beans
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Cornflour
      2 tb Stock
 
  Cut drained tofu into small cubes.  Heat 2 tb oil in a wok & fry tofu
  till it turns golden.  Remove & marinate in soy sauce & sherry.
  
  Cut beans into pieces 2" long.  Heat rest of oil & stir fry beans for
  1 minute.  Sprinkle with salt.  Add tofu & marinade.  Dissolve
  cornstarch in water & stir into the rest of the ingredients.  Cook
  gently till sauce thickens.
  
  Serve hot over rice.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Lentil Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Green lentils
      1 md Grated onion
  3 1/2 oz Olive oil
     10 oz Can tomatoes, crushed
      2 tb Tomato paste
      3 tb Red vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Chopped Italian parsley
    1/2 ts Basil
      3 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      2 ea Bay leaves
 
  Soak lentils.  Drain, rinse & add salt.  Set aside. With heat at
  medium, add olive oil to the pot & grated onion with parsley.
  
  Cook to a golden colour.  Add 4 litres of water & lentils.  Bring to a
  boil.  Add bay leaves, garlic, basil, pepper, tomatoes & paste.  Cook
  for 2 1/2 hours, stirring every half an hour.  Check the cooking
  lentils & ensure there is enough water.
  
  Before serving, add red vinegar, mix well.  Check seasonings.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Lentil Soup with Lemon
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Chicken
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Green lentils, washed
      3 ts Olive oil
      6 c  Vegetable stock
      1 ea Bay leaf
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      3 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      2 ts Coriander
      2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Sweet Hungarian paprika
      2 lg Carrots, diced
      2 tb Lemon juice, or to taste
           Salt & pepper
 
  Heat oil in pot & add lentils, stir briefly & add the onions &
  garlic. Cook for 3 or 4 minutes, stirring constantly.  Add the bay
  leaf & spices & stir for 1 minute.  Finally add the carrot.  Pour in
  stock, raise heat & bring to a boil.  Simmer for 60 minutes until the
  lentils start to puree. Remove from heat & let cool.  Blend till
  smooth & return to the pot.  Add lemon juice & salt & pepper. If too
  thick, thin with a little more stock. Serve with freshly made bread.
  
  Adapted from Sarah Brown's "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Papaya Salad (Som Tam)
 Categories: Salad, Thai, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 oz Green papaya
      1    Garlic clove
      3 sm Red or green chilis
      1 tb Roast peanuts
      1 oz Long beans; chopped into
           - 1-inch (2.5 cm) lengths
           - OR - French beans
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Light soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
      1 md Tomato
           -- chopped into segments
      2 lg Chinese cabbage leaves
 
  Peel the outer skin from the green papaya and finely shred the flesh
  on a cheese grater or chop very finely into long thin shreds.  Set
  aside.  In a mortar, lightly puond the garlic, add the chilis and
  lightly pound while occasionally stirring with a spoon to prevent the
  resulting paste from thickening.  Add the long beans and slightly
  bruise them.  Add the shredded papaya, lightly pound and stir until
  all the ingredients are blended together.  Add the lemon juice, soy
  sauce and sugar and stir into the mixture.  Finally add the tomato,
  stirring once.  Arrange the Chinese cabbage leaves on a serving dish
  and turn the yam on to them.  Diners should tear off a section of
  cabbage leaf to use as a scoop for the yam, the two being eaten
  together.  This dish is especially good with sticky rice.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Tomato Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 kg Green tomatoes
      1 ea Lemon
      1 c  Water
      3 c  Sugar
 
  Slice tomatoes & lemon thinly.  Put tomatoes, lemon & sugar into a
  pot with the water.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat & simmer for 1
  hour. Transfer to a warmed sterile jars.
  
  Letts, "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Tomato Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Vegetable, Tomato
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pastry for 9' pie with lid
      3 c  Tomatoes; green
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Molasses
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Preheat oven to 425F. Remove stem end of tomatoes- don't peel them.
  slice tomatoes in thin rings, cover them with boiling water and let
  stand for about 10 minutes, then drain them. Arrange the tomato
  slices in the unbaked pastry shell. combine sugar, flour, spices,
  molasses and water; pour the mixture over the tomatoes and cover with
  the top crust. Bake at 425F for 15 minutes, then at 350F for 30
  minutes.
  
  To quote the author, Edna Staebler "The Mennonites make pies out of
  anything they happen to have around that needs eating, that's how they
  managed to invent so many wonderful recipes."
  
  "Food That Really Schmecks"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Angel Food Cake with Nectarines & Blueberries
 Categories: Fruit, Italian, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 ea Ripe nectarines
      3 tb Powdered sugar
           Grated zest of 1 lemon
           Juice of 1/2 a lemon
      6 sl Angel food cake
      1 pt Fresh blueberries
 
  Prepare grill & cover to build an intense heat.  Remove nectarine
  pits & slice each one into 6 slices.  Combine sugar, zest, lemon
  juice in a small bowl.  Place 6 nectarine slices on a skewer & place
  on grill.  Cook 5 minutes, turn & baste with glaze.  Cook & baste for
  another 7 minutes.
  
  When fruit is just about done, toast cake slices on a cooler part of
  the grill, turning once.  Serve toasted cake with grilled nectarines
  & handfuls of blueberries.
  
  284 Cal.; 6g Prot.; 0.7g Fat; 63g Carb.; 0 Chol.; 175mg Sod.; 5g
  Fiber.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Eggplant with Hoisin Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Hoisin sauce
      2 tb Tamari
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
      2 tb Sesame oil
    1/2 tb Minced ginger root
      4 ea Scallions, thinly sliced
      1 tb Sesame seeds, toasted
 
  Slice eggplant into 1/4-inch thick rounds.  Sprinkle with salt &
  place in a colander.  Cover with a weighted down plate & leave for 30
  minutes.
  
  Whisk together hoisin, tamari, vinegar, sugar, sauce, oil, garlic &
  ginger. Rinse eggplant & pat dry.
  
  Pre-heat grill or brioler.  Place eggplant onto cookie sheet or
  directly on grill & cook till tender, about 5 to 7 minutes per side.
  Transfer to a serving dish & pour the sauce over the top.  Sprinkle
  with scallions & sesame seeds.  Serve warm
  
  "Vegetarian Times", April 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Green Bean & Eggplant Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ea Japanese eggplants
    1/2 lb Fresh green beans, whole
    1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
      2 lg Red bell peppers, julienned
      2 c  Mixed greens
      2 tb Minced red onion
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
           Salt & pepper
 
  Slice eggplants into rounds 1/4" thick.  Toss with green beans in
  balsamic vinegar.  Grill 8 to 10 minutes, turning frequently.
  
  In a large salad bowl, toss together bell peppers, greens, onions,
  live oil, lemon juice & 2 tb balsalmic vinegar.  Add salt & pepper.
  Arrange grilled vegetables on top.  Serve immediately.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Herbed Mushrooms in Cold Tomato Dressing
 Categories: Mushroom, Vegetarian, Tomato
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Large button mushrooms
           -- wiped clean

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 c  Olive oil
      4    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Red pepper flakes; crushed
      1 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 tb Fresh cilantro or basil
           -- (chopped)
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper

MMMMM--------------------COLD TOMATO DRESSING-------------------------
      3    Tomatoes; peeled, seeded
           -- and chopped
      3    Shallots; minced
    1/4 c  Sherry wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Tomato juice
    1/4 c  Extra virgin olive oil
      1    Lime; juiced
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
           -OR- basil
 
  Cecila came up with this combination for actress Darryl Hannah, a
  vegetarian who cooks for meat eaters.  The Philippines-inspired cold
  tomato and lime dressing is compatible with grilled fish or chicken
  as well as mushrooms.  To prevent the bamboo skewers from splintering
  in the heat of the fire, soak them in cold water for about half an
  hour and place them in the freezer for a few minutes before cooking.
  
  Combine all marinade ingredients in a glass or ceramic bowl.  Add the
  mushrooms, toss to coat and set aside to marinate for 1 hour at room
  temperature.
  
  Source:  Cecilia De Castro of Ma Cuisine _The Ma Cuisine Cooking
  School Cookbook_, by Linda Lloyd, Toni Mindling Schulman, Patrick
  Terrail and Helene Siegal
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Tempeh W/red Onion & Eggplant
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Bbq/grill, Condiment
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Tempeh cakes
      6 sl Red onion
      2 sm Eggplants; sliced into
           - 1/3" thick rounds
           Olive oil
     12 sl Whole wheat bread
      1 bn Arugula

MMMMM---------------------RED WINE MARINADE--------------------------
      1 c  Red wine
      4 tb Olive oil
      2 lg Garlic cloves
           - sliced into ovals
      1 tb Rosemary leaves; -OR-
      1 ts -Dried rosemary
    1/4 ts Fennel seeds
           Coarsely ground black pepper

MMMMM-------------------SWEET LEMON MAYONNAISE------------------------
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Dijon-style mustard
      1 ts Honey
      1    Garlic clove
           - minced to a paste
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  Combine all ingredients for Red Wine Marinade.  Slice the tempeh
  cakes in half crosswise, then split each half horizontally by slicing
  carefully. Marinate the tempeh cakes at room temperature for 1 hour,
  or longer in the refrigerator.
  
  Combine all ingredients for the Sweet Lemon Mayonnaise and set aside
  in the refrigerator.
  
  Brush the eggplant slices with olive oil.  On an open or closed grill
  over medium-hot coals, grill the eggplant and onion slices for 10
  minutes per side and the tempeh for 8 minutes per side or until
  well-browned.  Grill the whole wheat bread slices over low coals
  until toasty.  Arrange the vegetables and tempeh on slices of whole
  wheat toast spread with Sweet Lemon Mayonnaise and several sprigs of
  fresh arugula.  Add salt and pepper to taste
  
  From Vegetables on the Grill by Kelly McCune.
  
  Posted by Nanette Blanchard
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Tofu with Summer Vegetables
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     16 oz Firm Chinese tofu; cubed
    3/4 c  Teriyaki sauce
     12 lg Mushrooms; halved
      1    Red bell pepper
           -cut into 1" pieces
      1    Green bell pepper
           - cut into 1" pieces
      1 lg White onion
           - cut into 1" pieces
     12    Bamboo skewers
           - soaked in water for 1 hour
      2 tb Canola or safflower oil
      2 c  Barbecue Sauce
           -- (see separate recipe)
 
  1. Combine tofu and teriyaki sauce in sealed plastic bag. Freeze
  overnight and thaw next day. Turn bag once or twice during thawing
  process. Reserve marinade.
  
  2. Place tofu, peppers, onion, and mushrooms on skewers, alternating
  the order, beginning and ending with tofu. Com bine oil with reserved
  marinade and brush on the tofu and vegetables. Place on a grill and
  brown on all sides. brush on BBQ sauce and grill a while longer.
  
  From: THE HIGH ROAD TO HEALTH by Lindsay Wagner & Ariane Spade
  
  Shared by: CAROLE VIOLETT   (XKSP92B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Groundnut Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Misc/food
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Chopped onions
      2 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      1 ts Garlic cloves, pressed
      2 c  Chopped cabbage
      3 c  Cubed sweet potatoes
      3 c  Tomato juice
      1 c  Apple juice
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Grated fresh ginger
      1 tb Cilantro, chopped
      2 ea Chopped tomatoes
  1 1/2 c  Chopped okra
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
 
  Saute the onions in the oil for 10 minutes.  Stir in the cayenne &
  garlic & saute for a couple more minutes.  Add cabbage & sweet
  potatoes.  Cover & saute for a few more minutes.  Mix in the juices,
  salt, ginger, cilantro & tomatoes.  Cover & simmer for about 15
  minutes, until the sweet potatoes are tender.  Add the okra & simmer
  for another 5 minutes.  Stir in the peanut butter.  Place the pot on
  a heat diffuser & simmer gently till ready to serve.  Add more juice
  if the stew is too thick.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gujar Ka Pullao (Carrot Rice)
 Categories: Indian, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Basmati rice
      1 c  -Water
      1 lg Onion
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ea Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds
      2 ea Cloves
      1 ea Cardamom pod
    1/2 ea Cinnamon stick; 1/2 inch
    1/2 ts Peppercorns
      2 c  Carrot; grated
           -salt to taste
 
  "Carrots add a mild sweeteness to this pullao, which is lightly
  flavoured with whole spices. the recipe was given to me by my
  sister-in-law Rachna, who entices her family to eat carrots this way."
  
  Wash the rice under running water, then let soak in 1 cup water.
  Slice the onion into thin half rounds. In a large, heavy bottom
  saucepan over medium heat, warm the oil. Add the bay leaf. cumin,
  cloves, cardamom pod, cinnamon and peppercorns. cook until the spices
  puff up and darken ( 1 to 2 seconds), then add the sliced onion and
  saute until browned (8 to 10 minutes). Add the rice and the soaking
  water and the salt. Stir gently, cover, increase the heat to high and
  bring to a boil. Then reduce the heat to very low and cook for 25
  minutes without uncovering the pan. Turn off the heat and let the pan
  stand covered on the burner for 5 minutes. then uncover, fluff up the
  rice gently and serve. SERVES: 4 as a side dish
  
  Smita Chandra "From Bengal to Punjab: The Cuisines of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gujerati Carrot Salad
 Categories: Indian, Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5    Carrots;medium
    1/4 ts -Salt
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Whole black Mustard seeds
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  This is a Madhur Jeffrey recipe, published in the Toronto Sun.
  "Jaffray was in town last week teaching at the Bonnie Stern School of
  Cooking. Using ingredients available locally, primarily in the shops
  along Gerrard just west of Coxwell, she wowed the classes with her
  masterful teaching, attention to detail and wonderful aromatic
  dishes. She also proved how good and easy Indian cooking can be. ...
   Jaffray taught us how roasting, crushing and grinding bring out
  different qualities in a spice. Crushing mustard seeds, for example,
  brings out their heat but tossing them 'til they pop in hot oil calms
  the heat and brings out a sweet nuttiness. Black mustard seeds, the
  finest mustard seeds are essential and inexpensive ingredient, found
  in Indian groceries."
  
  Trim and peel and grate carrots. In a bowl, toss with salt and set
  aside. In a small heavy pan over medium heat, heat oil. When very
  hot, add mustard seeds. As soon as the seeds begin to pop, in a few
  seconds, pour oil and seeds over carrots. Add lemon juice and toss.
  SERVES:4 Serve at room temperature or cold.
  
  SOURCE: Madhur Jaffray, The Toronto Sun Posted by Anne Maclellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gujrati Dal
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Mixed dal*
      3 md Tomatoes, cut into wedges
      1 sm Eggplant, sliced into sticks
           -- like french fries
      1 md Zucchini, same as above
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Chopped ginger
      1 ts Chopped garlic
      2 ea Green chilies, minced
      4 tb Ghee
    3/4 ts Black mustard seeds
    3/4 ts Cumin seeds
    1/3 ts Asafetida
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
 
  Wash dal.  Place legumes in a bowl & cover with hot water.  Soak for 2
  hours, drain & rinse.  Put in a large pot with the turmeric, ginger,
  garlic, chilies & 3 cups water.  Boil & simmer for 45 minutes.  Turn
  off heat & let cool slightly.  Puree with a wire whisk.
  
  Heat ghee in a deep pot & add mustard seeds.  Fry for 15 seconds.  Add
  cumin seeds & cook for 10 seconds.  Add asafetida & cook for a second
  or two, then add the tomatoes.  Cook, stirring rapidly, for 3 to 4
  minutes. Add eggplant & zucchini & cook for an additional 3 minutes.
  
  Add lentil puree & salt & bring to a boil.  Reduce heat & cook
  covered for 20 minutes.  Serve over plain rice.
  
  *Use a mixture of dals, yellow lentils, pink lentils, yellow split
  peas & yellow split mung beans.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hazelnut and Vegetable Crumble
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Peeled, diced vegetables:
           -Carrots, Rutabagas,
           -Turnips, Onions, Celery
    1/4 lb Butter or vegan margarine
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 c  Rolled oats
    2/3 c  Hazelnuts
           -chopped or slivered
      1 sm Onion; peeled and grated
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
           -OR- herbes de Provence
 
  Preheat the oven to 350 F.  Broil the vegetables in water to cover for
  15-20 minutes, or until tender.  Drain, reserving the water.
  
  Blend about one-third of the vegetables with 2 tablespoons of the
  butter or vegan margarine and enough of the reserved water to make a
  puree in a food processor or blender.
  
  Add this puree to the rest of the vegetables.  Season to taste with
  salt and pepper.  Spoon the mixture into a shallow ovenproof
  casserole.
  
  To make the crumble topping, put the oats into a bowl with all the
  nuts, the onion, garlic, herbs and salt and pepper.  Add the rest of
  the butter or vegan margarine, and mix with a fork until the topping
  mixture resembles coarse breadcrumbs.
  
  Sprinkle the crumble mixture evenly over the top of the vegetables.
  Bake for 30-40 minutes, until topping is crisp and lightly browned.
  
  Source: The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine - by Rose Elliot ISBN:
  0-394-57123-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hearty Garlic Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Sugar
      3 c  White flour
     12    Garlic cloves, pressed
 
  In a deep bowl, dissolve the yeast in water.  Add oil, salt & sugar.
  Beat in half the flour & the pressed garlic.  Add the rest of the
  flour slowly, working it in as you go.  Using your fingers, squeeze
  the dough together.
  
  Bang the dough down hard on the kneading board.  Form into an oval &
  place on an oiled pan.  Let rise for a while in a warm place.
  
  Preheat oven to 375F & bake for 45 to 55 minutes.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads you Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water
  1 3/4 c  White flour
      1 pn Oregano
      2 pn Parsley
      3 pn Chives
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
 
  In a bowl, add yeast with the water.  Stir in 1 1/2 c flour, herbs,
  oil, sugar & salt.  Allow to rest for 15 minutes.
  
  Sprinkle 1/4 flour on a board & turn the dough onto it.  Knead gently,
  adding more flour if you need to.  Let rest for 10 minutes.  Knead
  again for a short time.
  
  Place dough in a 3 3/4"X7 1/2"X2" aluminimum foil pan.  Allow to
  proof for 20 minutes.  Preheat oven to 350F & bake for 40 to 50
  minutes.  Allow to cool in the pan for 5 minutes before turning out.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Rice with Julienne Potatoes
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian, Rice
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 c  Basmati rice
      2 md Potatoes, peeled
    1/2 tb Fresh ginger
      2 ts Green chilies, minced
    1/4 c  Coconut
      2 tb Parsley, fresh
      3 tb Ghee
      6    Whole cloves
  1 1/2    Inch piece cinnamon stick
      1 sm Bay leaf
  1 1/2 ts Whole cumin seeds
    1/2 c  Frozen peas, defrosted
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Lemon juice
  2 1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Ghee
      5    Lemon wedges to garnish
 
  Wash the potatoes & cut them evenly into julienne strips.
  
  Combine the ginger root, chilies, coconut, parsley in a bowl.  Add a
  little water or soy milk, mix well.  Drop in potato strips.  Set
  aside.
  
  Heat the ghee in a heavy pot, drop in the whole cloves, cinnamon, bay
  leaf. Fry till the cumin seeds turn brown.  Add the marinated
  potatoes & stir fry till they are lightly browned.
  
  Add the rice, salt, turmeric, lemon juice, water & sugar.  Stir &
  quickly bring to a full boil.
  
  Reduce heat to very low & cover with a tight fitting lid.  Simmer
  gently for 20 to 25 minutes.  5 minutes before the end, add the peas.
  
  Remove lid, turn off heat & add 1 tb ghee.  Let rice sit for 5
  minutes. Fluff & garnish each portion with lemon wedges.
  
  Adapted from Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hijiki Nimono
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 oz Hijiki
      2 oz Carrots
      1    Age (deep-fried tofu) puff
    1/3    Block hard tofu
      5    Green beans
      2 tb Sesame oil
      1 c  Dashijiru (soup stock)
      3 tb Shoyu (soy sauce)
      2 tb Sake
      2 tb Mirin
      1 ts White sesame seeds
           -- lightly sauteed
           Seven pepper; to taste
           - (Shichimitogarashi)
 
  A.)   Rinse the hijiki in a fine-mesh strainer under cold running
  water. In 3 times the amount of warm water, soak for 10 to 15
  minutes.  Remove the hijiki with a tea strainer.  (Sand and pebbles
  will sink to the bottom of the bowl.)  Return to fine-mesh strainer
  and drain off excess water. Grate the carrots into matchstick
  slivers.  Dip the age puff for 30 seconds in boiling water, and cut
  into matchstick slivers.  Place tofu in a heated skillet and mash
  with a spatula.  Let it simmer in its own water until reduced to
  small crumbs.  Snap the ends off the green beans and place in boiling
  water for 1 to 2 minutes.  Immerse in iced water, drain, and cut into
  1/2-inch-long pieces.
  
  B.)   In a heated skillet, saute sesame oil, hijiki, carrots, age,
  and tofu (all completely drained of water).  When ingredients have
  acquired a shiny appearance, add dashijiru, shoyu, sake and mirin.
  Reduce heat to low and cook, stirring frequently, until liquid has
  been absorbed.  Turn off heat and add green beans.
  
  C.)   Place B in serving dish, sprinkle with sauteed sesame seeds.
  If you like, add seven-taste pepper to taste.
  
  Source: The Folk Art of Japanese Country Cooking, by Gaku Homma Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Holy Tofu Mole!
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 sm Head of garlic
    1/2 ts Olive oil
      3    Fresh poblano chilies
           -OR- pasilla chilies
    1/2 c  Raw, shelled pumpking seeds
     10 oz Canned tomatillos; drained
    1/2 c  Fresh cilantro, chopped
    1/2 c  Chicken or vegetable stock
           -OR- Water
  1 1/2 lb Extra firm, low-fat tofu
    1/4 c  Tamari
      3 c  Cooked brown rice
 
  Preheat oven to 375 F.  Remove loose, papery skin from garlic and cut
  in half crosswise.  Rub cut surfaces with olive oil.  Wrap garlic in
  foil and bake 35 to 40 minutes until garlic is soft.  Set aside until
  cool enough to handle.  Squeeze garlic cloves from their skins.
  
  Remove stems and seeds from chilies.  Roast chilies under broiler,
  turning frequently, until skin is evenly blistered and slightly
  charred.  Place chilies in a paper bag and let cool.  Remove skins
  from chilies and rinse.
  
  Toast pumpkin seeds in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat,
  shaking the pan often, until seeds have puffed, about 3 minutes.  Do
  not brown.
  
  Transfer seeds to a small bowl, then set aside to cool.
  
  Grind pumpkin seeds to a fine meal in a food processor or blender.
  Add roasted garlic, chilies, tomatillos, peppers and cilantro and
  continue pureeing until smooth.  Heat sauce in a medium skillet and
  add stock. Simmer 10 minutes.
  
  Slice tofu 1/2-inch thick.  Brush tofu with tarmari and grill over hot
  coals or broil in oven, 5 minutes per side.  Serve tofu on a bed of
  rice topped with mole sauce.
  
  Calories per serving: 497 Grams of fat: 17 Percent fat calories: 32
  Cholesterol: 0 mg Grams fiber: 8.4
  
  Source: Delicious! magazine - May/June 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hortosoupa 1
 Categories: Vegetarian, Greek, Soup/stew
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    340 g  Chopped fresh tomatoes
      1 md Potato; diced
      1    Carrot; diced
     55 g  Red or white chopped cabbage
      1 md Onion; chopped
    100 ml Olive oil
           Sea salt
           Black pepper
 
  Put the tomatoes in a saucepan with 500ml of cold water. Simmer for 30
  minutes and add the vegetables, oil and seasoning Cook for 45 - 60
  minutes until the vegetables are tender. Serve.
  
  Posted by Kaz Dunkley
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot and Sour Vermicelli Salad (Yam Wun Sen)
 Categories: Thai, Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------THE GARNISH-----------------------------
      5    Crisp lettuce leaves
      1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1    Sprig coriander leaves
           -- finely chopped

MMMMM--------------------------THE YAM-------------------------------
      4 tb Vegetable stock
      2 oz Medium button mushrooms
           -- sliced
      4 oz Dry clear vermicelli noodles
           -- soaked in water for
           -- 20 minutes until soft,
           -- then drained
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Light soy sauce
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Sugar
    2/3 c  Black fungus mushrooms
           -- pre-soaked
    2/3 c  Med. fresh button mushrooms
      2    Shallots; finely sliced
      1    Spring onion/scallion
           -- chopped
      1    Celery stalk with leaves
           -- chopped
      1 sm Carrot; finely chopped
 
  Line a serving dish with lettuce and set aside.  Fry the garlic in
  the oil until golden brown and set aside.
  
  In a saucepan, heat the stock and add the fresh mushrooms, cook
  momentarily, then add all the other yam ingredients and stir for
  approximately one minute until thoroughly mixed.  Finally, add the
  garlic oil and mix, turn on to the lettuce and garnish with coriander.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking, by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot and Sour Mushroom Soup (Tom Yam Het)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Thai, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      3 c  Vegetable stock
      1 ts Nam Prik Pow sauce
      1    Inch Lemon grass
           -- finely chopped into rings
      3    Kaffir lime leaves
           -- roughly torn into three
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 oz Oyster mushrooms
           -- coarsely separated
           -OR- button mushrooms
      2 sm Fresh red or green chilis
           - (more if desired)
           -- crushed to split open

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
           Coriander leaves
 
  In a large pan, bring the vegetable stock to the boil and stir in the
  Nam Prik Pow sauce.  Add the remaining ingredients and simmer,
  stirring well until the mushrooms are just cooked but still al dente.
  Pour into a serving bowl and garnish with coriander leaves.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typos by:
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot German Bean Salad
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  White Grape Juice
      2 md Carrots; chopped
    1/2 md Red onion; chopped
      2    Stalks celery; sliced
    1/2 c  Water, or liquid from beans
    1/3 c  Vinegar
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1    Vegetable Bouillon cube
      2 c  Black beans, canned
      1 c  Red kidney beans, canned
      1    Red onion, optional
 
  In a large skillet, add white grape juice and heat over medium-high
  heat. Stir fry carrots, onion, and celery for two minutes. Remove
  from heat.
  
  In a small bowl, stir together water, vinegar, sugar, cornstarch, and
  bouillon cube, crumbling cube as much as possible.
  
  Add mixture to skillet.  Cook and stir over medium-high heat 1 to 2
  minutes, or until mixture is thickened and bubbly.
  
  Stir in black and kidney beans.  Cook additional 2-3 minutes, stirring
  occasionally, until mixture is heated through. Garnish with sliced red
  onions, if desired.
  
  May be served hot or cold.
  
  One serving of 2/3 C = 2 bread exchanges; 164 cal; 33 gm carb; 6 gm
  protein; trace fat, 304 mg sodium, 0 mg cholesterol. (Sodium may be
  reduced by cooking dry beans instead of using canned, using no added
  salt)
  
  A.BROADDUS [Alice in Hou]    at 20:08 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Pepper Green Beans
 Categories: Side dish, Chinese, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh green beans, stemmed
      4 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 c  Chopped green scallions
      2 ea Fresh chilies, seeded &
           -- finely chopped
      1 tb Fermented black beans,
           --rinsed
      3 tb Rice vinegar
      2 tb Tamari
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 tb Brown sugar
      2 tb Rice wine
      3 tb Peanut oil
 
  Blanch green beans for 2 minutes.  In a small bowl, combine garlic,
  scallions, chilies, beans.  In another small bowl, combine vinegar,
  soy sauce, cornstarch, sugar & wine.  Heat oil in a wok, add bean
  mixture & stir-fry for a minute.  Add green beans & stir-fry for 5
  minutes.  Mix in the rest of the ingredients & stir-fry long enough
  just to coat the beans.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Sauce for Falafels
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Vegetable broth
      6 tb Tomato paste
      2 ts Red chili paste
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 tb Fresh parsley, minced
      1 tb Cilantro, minced
 
  Combine all ingredients in a pot.  Over a medium heat, simmer till
  slightly thickened, should take 5 minutes.
  
  Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Spicy Bean Curd
 Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 ea Green onions, chopped
      1 ts Garlic, chopped
      1 ea Green chilies, chopped
      1 tb Salted black beans
      1 lb Bean curd, cubed
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Stock
      1 ts Cornstarch dissolved in 1
           -- tb water
 
  Heat oil in a wok & fry the onion, garlic & chili for 30 seconds.  Add
  salted beans & bean curd, fry gently till bean curd turns golden.
  Add the rest of the ingredients & cook until the sauce thickens.
  Serve hot over noodles or fried rice.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hummus Bi Tahini
 Categories: Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     19 oz Can chickpeas
      1 ts Baking soda
      3 tb Tahini
      1 ea Garlic clove, chopped
           Juice of 1 1/2 lemons
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Cold water
      1 tb Pine nuts
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  Combine chickpeas with their juice with baking soda & bring to a boil.
  Immediately remove from heat, drain & rinse thoroughly.  In a food
  processor, combine chickpeas, tahini, garlic, lemon juice, salt & 1
  Tb of water.  Blend till creamy.  Add rest of the water if mixture
  apears too thick.  Refrigerate.  Heat olive oil & fry pine nuts till
  golden brown. When ready to serve, sprinkle over hummus.  Serve cold
  with pita bread.
  
  "The Hamilton Spectator", July 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Humus Tahini Dip
 Categories: Misc/food, Appetizer, Vegetarian, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chickpeas; soaked overnight
           -and drained
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6 tb Tahini (sesame paste)
      2    Lemons, juiced
      1 tb Corn oil (or as needed)
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 tb Fresh parsley; chopped
 
  In a medium saucepan place the soaked chickpeas and cover them with
  water. Bring the water to a boil over high heat and vigorously cook
  the chickpeas for 10 minutes.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer the
  chickpeas for 1 hours, or until they are tender (add more water if
  necessary).
  
  Drain the water from the chickpeas.  Place them in a food processor
  (reserve 8 chickpeas for the garnish) and pure them until they are
  very smooth.  Add some water if necessary.
  
  In a medium bowl, place the pured chickpeas.  Add the garlic, salt,
  pepper, tahini, and lemon juice.  Mix the ingredients together so
  that they are well blended.
  
  Add the corn oil and mix it in well so that a smooth paste is formed.
  
  In a small serving bowl, place the humus.  Smooth it down evenly with
  a knife.  Pour the olive oil in the center.  Sprinkle on the paprika
  and parsley.  Garnish the dish with the reserved chickpeas.
  
  Makes 1 cups.
  
  Source: Papa Garo's - Redondo Beach, California "Southern California
  Beach Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian French Toast
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/3 c  Besan (chick pea) flour
    1/4 c  Mashed tofu
    3/4 c  Water
      3    -to
      4 tb Margarine
      2    -to
      4    Hot green chilies
    1/4 c  Cilantro
      1 sl Ginger (1/2")
      2 tb Chopped onion
    1/2 ts Salt; to taste
      4 sl Bread *
 
  * (I like sourdough, and I recommend not using a really dark type.)
  
  Put everything but the bread and margarine into the blender/food
  processor/ other implement of destruction and blend until the herbs
  are medium chooped. Pour the resulting batter into a wide shallow
  dish. (She says it'll keep three days covered in the frig, if you
  plan meals that far ahead.  I don't.)
  
  Melt the margarine in a big skillet or frying pan.  Soak one slice of
  bread at a time in the batter until pretty gloppy, then toss into the
  skillet and fry until the bottom is medium brown, then flip and cook
  about another minute.
  
  Serve right off the stove.
  
  From: radhika@june.cs.washington.edu (Radhika Thekkath)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Gazpacho
 Categories: Indian, Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 lg Tomatoes, blanched, skinned
      1 lg Red onion
      1 lg Green or red bell pepper
      2 bn Radishes, trimmed
      3 lg Carrots
      3 lg Celery ribs
      2 md Cucumbers, unpeeled
      2 ea Hot green chilies, seeded
      6 lg Garlic cloves, peeled
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Tomato paste
  6 1/4 c  Vegetable stock
  1 3/4 c  Dry red wine
           Salt
 
  Chop all vegetables & put in large bowl with the rest of the
  ingredients. Stir well.  Blend in stages until there are no vegetable
  chunks left, but don't let the soup become too thin.  Add salt to
  taste & chill before serving.
  
  Adapted from Ismail Merchant, "Indian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Gravy
 Categories: Indian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Ghee
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      4 lg Garlic cloves
      1 ts Grated ginger
      2 ts Turmeric
      2 ts Cayenne
      2 ts Garam masala
      4 ea Ripe tomatoes
    1/3 c  Yogurt
           Salt
  2 1/2 c  Water
 
  Heat ghee & saute onions & garlic till golden.  Stir in ginger,
  turmeric, cayenne & garam masala in turn.  Stir fry for 5 minutes.
  
  Add tomatoes & yogurt.  Stir in salt & cook for 2 minutes.
  
  Pour in water & bring to a boil.  Reduce heat & simmer for 10
  minutes. The gravy is now ready to use.
  
  Makes 2 1/2 cups.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Style Lemonade
 Categories: Beverage, Indian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 c  Water
    1/2 c  Fresh lime juice
    2/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
  1 1/3 c  Maple syrup
    1/2 tb Freshly grated ginger
    1/8 ts Cayenne, optional
 
  Combine all ingredients in a large pitcher or punch bowl.  Serve at
  room temperature or chilled.
  
  "Vegetarian Times"  July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Iridofu
 Categories: Japanese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
      1 sm Onion, diced
      1 sm Carrot, diced
     24 oz Tofu, crumbled
      2 tb Roasted sesame seeds
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Shoyu
      1 ds Pepper
 
  Heat a wok & coat with oil.  Add onion & carrot & saute for 3 minutes
  till onion is slightly browned.  Add crumbled tofu & the remaining
  ingredients. Stirring constantly, saute over medium low heat for a
  bout 5 minutes, or until the tofu is light & dry.
  
  Variations:  Add 1/4 c of any of the following: parboiled green peas;
  shiitake mushrooms; diced bamboo shoots.  Also try adding 1 ts grated
  ginger.
  
  Shurtleff & Aoyagi, "The Book of Tofu"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Herb Scones
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Mealy potatoes
      4 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 tb Oil
      2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Dried dill
    1/4 ts Savory
    1/4 ts Marjoram
    1/4 ts Powdered sage
           Oil for frying
 
  Boil or bake the potatoes, then pass through a foodmill.  Mix the
  flour, salt, oil & herbs with the potatoes.  On a floured board, roll
  this dough to a thickness of about 1/4 inch.  Cut into triangles 3 or
  4 inches wide. Fry in very hot oil on both sides until light golden.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Iron Rich Quick Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Whole wheat flour
      2 tb Wheatgerm
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Oats
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Molasses
  1 1/4 c  Water
      1 c  Raisins
 
  Combine flours, wheatgerm, baking powder & soda & salt.  Stir in oats
  & sugar.  Mix thoroughly.  Add raisins.  Combine oil, molasses &
  water.  Add to dry ingredients.  Stir until thoroughly blended.
  
  Turn into greased 23 X 13 X 7 cm loaf pan.  Bake at 350F for 50
  minutes.
  
  Adapted from the Ontario Ministry of Health Recipes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Brochettes with Angel Hair Pasta
 Categories: Italian, Vegetarian, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 sm Japanese eggplants
      1 ea Zucchini
      1 ea Yellow crookneck squash
    1/2 lb Button mushrooms
      1 ea Red bell pepper
      1 ea Yellow bell pepper
      2 sm Red onions
      1 ea Fennel bulb
    1/2 lb Cherry toamtoes
           ---------MARINADE-----------
    1/2 bn Fresh thyme
      1 pn Crushed red pepper
           Grated zest of 1 lemon
    1/2 ts Salt, optional
    1/2 ts Pepper, optional
      9 ea Garlic cloves
           Juice of 2 lemons
    1/4 c  Vegetable broth or olive oil
           -----------PASTA------------
    1/2 c  Tomato sauce
      1 lb Angel hair pasta
 
  Cut eggplant, squash & zucchini into pieces 1/4" thick.  Halve
  mushrooms & cut bell peppers into strips.  Quarter removing skins
  only if they are dirty.  Trim outer leaves of fennel & remove any
  dirt.  Slice into 8 thin wedges.  Place all vegetables into large
  bowl.
  
  MARINADE: Strip thyme leaves from stems, reserve stems.  In a
  processor, process thyme, red pepper, zest & salt & pepper.  Add
  garlic while machine is running.  Stop machine & add lemon juice
  Turn on & add vegetable broth in a slow stream.  Process 1 minute.
  Pour over vegetables & allow to marinate for 15 minutes.
  
  Preapre grill & cover to build intense heat.  Skewer vegetables.  Toss
  sthyme stems onto the heat shield or coals.  Place brochettes onto hot
  grill, cover & allw to smoke for 5 minutes.  Remove cover, turn &
  cook for another 3 to 5 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, drain marinade into a small non-reactive pot.  Add tomato
  sauce & heat through.  When skewers are almost done, cook pasta.
  Drain & return to pot.  Pour sauce over pasta & toss to coat.  Serve
  with grilled vegetables.
  
  VARIATION: Use sourdough bread brushed with the marinade & lightly
  grilled instead of the pasta.
  
  PER SERVING: 314 Cal.; 14g Prot.; 3g Fat; 58g Carb.; 0 Chol.; 240mg
  Sod.; 8g Fiber.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Style Eggplant & Pepper Salad
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant
      2 lg Bell peppers, red or green
      2 lg Celery stalks
           Olive oil for sauteeing
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Oregano
           Salt & pepper
    1/4 c  Black olives, chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 400F.  Place whole eggplant, unpeeled, on a rack in
  oven. Wrap the two peppers & celery stalks individually in aluminum
  foil & place them on rack as well.  Bake for 30 minutes.  Remove
  peppers & celery & let cool.  Bake eggplant for another 15 minutes.
  It should be very tender & have collapsed.
  
  When vegetables are cool enough to handle, peel eggplant, cut into
  several pieces & drain in a colnder for 20 minutes.  Squeeze out some
  of the excess moisture.  Chop peppers, removing stems & seeds.  Leave
  in large pieces. Chop celery into 1/2" pieces.  Dice eggplant &
  combnie with peppers & celery in a large bowl.
  
  Heat a few drops of olive oil in a skillet & saute the garlic till
  golden. Add to hte bowl.  Add remaining ingredients & mix thoroughly.
  Cover & let stand for 1 hour at room temperature before serving.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Chopped onions
      1 md Bell pepper, diced
      2 ts Basil
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Thyme
  1 1/2 ts Salt
     13 oz Canned toamtoes, chopped
      6 oz Tomato paste
      1 tb Honey
           Black pepper, lots
      6 ea Garlic cloves, minced
           Parsley
 
  Heat olive oil in a Dutch oven.  Add onion, bell pepper, herbs & salt.
  Saute over medium heat until the onion is fairly soft, 8 to 10
  minutes.
  
  Add tomatoes, tomato paste, honey & black pepper.  Bring to a boil.
  Lower heat & simmer, partially covered, for 20 to 30 minutes.
  
  Add garlic & cook 10 minutes more.  Either let the sauce sit for a
  couple of hours or serve now.
  
  Serve over spaghetti & with homemade garlic bread.
  
  Mollie Katzen, "Moosewood Cookbook", Revised Edition
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jamaican Rice and Peas
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
    1 c  dried red kidney beans, washed
         coconut milk (see NOTE)
    1 ea sprigfresh thyme
    1 ea clove garlic, crushed
    1 ea green onion, chopped
         salt, to taste
    3 sl hot pepper, such as Scotch Bonnet (optional) 2 1/4 c uncooked
  long-grain, regular or parboiled rice In a medium saucepan with a
  tight-fitting lid, place the washed beans. Add the coconut milk and
  bring to boil.  Reduce the heat. Cook until the beans are tender, 1
  to 2 hours. Add the thyme, garlic, green onion, and salt. Add the hot
  pepper if desired. Simmer for a few minutes. Add the rice.
  
  The liquid should come up to 1-inch above the rice.  Add water if
  needed. Cover the pot.  Bring to a boil again.  Reduce the heat to
  low. Cook for 15 minutes (for regular rice) to 20 minutes (for
  parboiled). It should not be necessary to add more water, but if to
  much liquid boils away, replace it with boiling water.
  
  The rice is ready when the liquid disappears and the grains of rice
  are separate.  Stir just before serving to evenly distribute the red
  kidney beans. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  
  NOTE:  For coconut milk, crack 1 mature coconut with a hammer, cut off
       the brown shell, and grate the coconut meat.  Into a bowl, add
       the coconut meat and 6 cups of water.  Mix well, then squeeze to
       extract as much liquid as possible.  Press through a sieve and
       use as directed above.
  
       Etoria says his preferred method to separate the coconut
       meat from the brown shell is with a butter knife ("or the
       dullest knife you have") to prevent cuts.  Slip the knife
       between the white flesh and the shell, and it should come
       away easily.
  
      Stanley Etoria, chef of the Reggae Cafe, 6100 Westheimer,
      Houston, Texas
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Japanese Braised Eggplant
 Categories: Main dish, Japanese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Eggplants
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
    1/3 c  Tamari soy sauce
      1 tb Molasses
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      8 oz Tempeh, cubed
  2 1/2 c  Chopped onions
      2 ts Ground fennel seeds
    1/4 ts Cayenne
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 md Green bell pepper, diced
      4 c  Sliced mushrooms
      3 tb Tomato paste
           Salt to taste
           Brown rice
           Chopped scallions
           Toasted seasme seeds
 
  Leaving stems on, cut eggplants in half lengthwise.  Mix together the
  sherry, soy sauce & molasses.  Oil a baking pan.  Pour sherry mixture
  into pan, place eggplant slices face down, cover tightly & bake at
  350F for 45 minutes.
  
  Brown cubed tempeh, 1/2c of onions, 1 ts fennel & cayenne in oil for
  20 minutes.  Stir frequently to avoid burning.  In a separate pot,
  saute remaining onion, coriander, remaining fennel till onions are
  transluscent. Add peppers & mushrooms & saute 15 to 20 minutes.
  
  With a slotted spoon, lift tempeh & onions from oil & stir into sauted
  vegetables.  Stir in tomato paste & 2 tb braising liquid from
  eggplant pan. Salt filling.
  
  Turn eggplant halves over, carefully mash pulp & push to sides
  leaving a hollow centre.  Fill each hollow with 1/4 of filling.
  Cover pan tightly & bake at 350F for 20 minutes til piping hot.
  
  Serve on bed of rice, pour over some juiice from baking pan &
  sprinkle with scallions & sesame seeds.
  
  "New Recipes From Moosewood"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kali Dal
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Black whole gram beans
      2 tb Red kidney beans
      1 c  Chopped onions
      2 tb Chopped ginger
    3/4 c  Chopped tomatoes
      1 c  Water
    1/2 ts Ground cardamom
      1 tb Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Red pepper
      2 ts Salt
      6 tb Ghee
      4 tb Ghee
  1 1/2 ts Cumin seeds
      1 c  Minced onions
    1/4 c  Coriander leaves, chopped
 
  Wash the gram beans.  Place both the grma beans & kidney beans in a
  large pot.  Add 4 cups of water & bring to a boil.  Turn off heat &
  let sit for 2 hours.  Add the onions, ginger, tomatoes, 1 cup water,
  cardamom, coriander, pepper, salt & 6 tb ghee.  Mix well, bring to a
  boil & simmer for 4 1/2 to 5 hours.  Keep the heat very low so that
  you maintain a bare simmer during the cooking period.
  
  After cooking, remove 2 to 3 cups of the beans & blend them till
  smooth. Return to the pot.  Keep the dal on a low simmer.
  
  Heat ghee & add the cumin seeds when ghee is very hot.  After 10
  seconds, add the minced onion & cook gently for 10 minutes, stirring
  constantly. Pour over the dal & mix in the coriander.  Simmer till
  heated through.
  
  Serve with Royal Vegetable & Rice Casserole.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kasha
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      2 c  Kasha
      4 c  Water
      2 tb Oil
      5 lg Onions, diced
      2 ea Carrots, diced
      2 ea Celery stalks, diced
      3 ea Galric cloves, chopped
    1/2 c  Tamari
    1/2 ts Parsley
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne
      3 tb Tahini
 
  In a large pot, bring water to a boil & add kasha: cook for 15 to 20
  minutes, till soft.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet & add the chopped vegetables.  Saute for 7
  minutes till soft.   Mix kasha & add to the vegetables.  Add
  seasonings, using more if necesary.  Add tahini & cook for 8 to 10
  minutes.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kaz's Vegetable Casserole
 Categories: Vegetarian, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Mushrooms
      2    Onions
      5    Mange tout
    220 g  Chick peas
    400 g  Tomatoes with chili spices
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 tb Natural or hazelnut yoghurt
      1 tb White wine vinegar
      2 ts Brown mustard seeds
 
  White grape juice is just as good as white wine if you want to avoid
  the alcohol. The recipe works well without either.
  
  I made this one up when I couldn't be bothered to follow a recipe, so
  I'd be interested to know what you think of it. It is also nice with
  a crumble topping - I use an ordinary wholemeal crumble mix and add
  sunflower seeds to it, or cashew nuts, to give it a slightly nutty
  taste.
  
  Preparation: chop the onions into 2cm pieces and finely dice the
  :            mushrooms.
  
  Add all the vegetables to a casserole dish, then add the spices,
  chickpeas, yoghurt and white wine. If possible leave to marinate for
  a couple of hours to let the vegetables absorb the taste.
  
  Microwave on high (650w oven) for 15 minutes, or longer if you want
  the vegetables to be soft rather than crunchy - say 20 minutes.
  
  Serve with Biryani rice - I use brown rice with lentils, almonds,
  sultanas and a mixture of vegetables such as carrots and broccoli.
  
  Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kema
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Indian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  TVP granules or flakes
    7/8 c  Boiling water
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Yellow onion, minced
      1 lg Garlic clove, minced
      1 ea 1 inch slice ginger, minced
      3 tb Tomato paste
      1 c  Stewed tomatoes
      2 ts Curry powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne
      1 c  Green peas
      1 c  Mushrooms, sliced
 
  Combine TVP & water in a bowl.  Let syand for 10 minutes.  Heat oil
  in a large cast-iron skillet or wok.  Stir-fry onion, garlic & ginger
  for 5 minutes.  Add TVP & stir-fry another 5 minutes.  Add tomato
  paste, tomatoes, curry powder, salt & cayenne.  Simmer a few minutes.
  Add peas & mushrooms.  Bring to a boil, cover & simmer over low heat
  for 5 minutes.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" February, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kettle Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped onions
      1 lg Garlic clove, pressed
      2 tb Minced chilies
      3 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      4 sm Potatoes, cubed
      3 c  Drained canned tomatoes,
           --chopped
      2 c  Cut green beans
      1 sm Zucchini, sliced
      2 c  Corn
      1 tb Cilantro
           Salt
 
  In a stewpot, saute onion, garlic, chilies in the oil for 5 minutes.
  Add cinnamon, cloves, potatoes & cook for another 5 minutes, covered.
  Stir in tomatoes, green beans & cover & cook for 5 minutes more.  Add
  the zucchini & corn.  Simmer, covered on low heat till the vegetables
  are tender.  If the stew seems too dry, add some tomato juice or
  water.  Add cilantro & salt to taste.  Serve with cornbread.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Khatte Channe
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked chick peas, reserve
           -- the stock
      1 tb Tamarind paste
    1/2 c  Light vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Thinly sliced onions
      2 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Red pepper
      1 c  Chopped tomatoes
      1 tb Ginger, grated
  1 1/4 ts Garam masala
  1 1/4 ts Ground cumin
 
  Heat oil in a large pot over medium heat & fry the onions for 20
  minutes, stirring constantly to prevent burning.  Add garlic & cook
  for 2 minutes. Add turmeric & pepper.  Stir rapidly for a moment,
  then add the tomatoes & ginger.  Cook for about 5 minutes (the fat
  should be separating from the gravy).
  
  Add tamarind & about 1 cup of the chick pea stock.  Cover & simmer
  gently for 15 minutes.  Add chick peas, garam masala & cumin.  Cook
  for 10 minutes.  Check for salt.  Serve garnished with onion slices &
  shredded green chilies.  Serve with Poori.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Khichhari
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Yellow split peas
      1 tb Ghee
      1 ea Onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Whole coriander seeds
    1/2 ts Whole cumin seeds
      1 ea 1/2 inch piece ginger, slice
      1 ts Turmeric
    1/4 ts Cayenne
      4 oz Brown rice
      1 ea Green chili, chopped
    3/4 pt Water
      1 ea Juice of half a lemon
      2 ea Tomatoes, skinned & chopped
           Salt
 
  Steep peas in boiling water for 1 hour.  Drain & rinse well.
  
  In a large pot, heat oil & fry onions & spices for 4 minutes over a
  medium heat.
  
  Add split peas, rice & green chili.  Mix well.  Pour on water & lemon
  juice.  Add tomatoes, stir once & cover.  Simmer very gently for 40
  minutes or until rice is soft.  Season & serve.
  
  Sarah Brown's "Vegetarian Cookbook"
  
  Split peas can be substituted for lentils.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kibbet Batata Bi Sanieh - Potato Kibbi
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian, Misc/food
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes
           -Water
  1 1/2 c  Fine burghul
      1 md Onion; grated
    1/2 c  Finely chopped parsley
      1 ts Dried mint
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      2 ts Salt; more to taste
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Flour, optional

MMMMM-------------------------TO FINISH------------------------------
      1 lg Onion; halved then sliced
    3/4 c  Olive oil
 
  Scrub and cook potatoes in boiling, salted water until tender.  Peel
  and mash.
  
  Place burghul in a fine sieve and rinse with cold water.  Press with
  back of spoon to extract moisture, then turn into a large bowl and
  leave for 15 minutes.
  
  Add potatoes, grated onion, parsley, mint, cinnamon, salt and plenty
  of pepper.  Mix, taste and add more salt if necessary.
  
  Knead well with hand, moistening it occasionally with water.  If
  mixture is too soft add enough flour to make a firm paste, kneading
  well.
  
  Put sliced onion and half the oil in a 25 x 30 cm (10 x 12 inch)
  baking dish or 30 cm (12 inch) round dish.  Dot potato paste over
  onions, then spread evenly with a spatula.  Cut into diamond shapes
  using an oiled knife.  Pour remaining oil evenly on top and bake in a
  hot oven for 40 minutes or until golden brown.  Cool in dish, then
  serve at room temperature with salad.  Good served hot, in which case
  cool for 10 minutes before serving.
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook - by Tess Mallos ISBN: 1
  86302 069 1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kimchi (Korean Cabbage Relish)
 Categories: Vegetable, Relish, Asian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Head Chinese cabbage
           - cut into 1/2-in. strips
      3 tb Salt
      6    Green onions; chopped
           - (or less, if desired)
      3    Garlic clove; minced
           - (or less, if desired)
    1/2 ts Crushed dried hot red chile
      1 ts Chopped gingerroot
 
  Soak cabbage in salted water to cover 5 to 10 hours. Drain. Combine
  cabbage with salt, green onions, garlic, chile and gingerroot. Mix
  well and spoon into large jar. Cover and refrigerate 1 to 2 days
  before using. Keeps well several weeks. Use as relish or salad.
  
  Makes about 1 quart
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
  
  Posted by Karen Mintzias in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Koloketes (Pumpkin Pies)
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 30 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PUMPKIN FILLING---------------------------
      3 c  Diced butternut pumpkin
      2 tb Pougouri (coarse burghul)
      1 md Onion; chopped
    1/4 c  Peanut or corn oil
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 pn Ground cloves
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
      4 c  Plain flour
      1 pn Salt
    3/4 c  Peanut or corn oil
    1/2 c  Cold water
      3 ts Lemon juice
           Beaten egg & milk for glaze
 
  Makes: 30 Oven temperature: 200 C (400 F) reducing to 180 C (350 F)
  Cooking time: 30 minutes
  
  Peel pumpkin, remove seeds and cut into 5 mm (1/4 inch) dice.
  Measure and place diced pumpkin into a bowl.  Add remaining filling
  ingredients, stir to combine, cover and leave for 12 hours or
  overnight.
  
  Sift flour and salt into a mixing bowl, add oil and rub in with
  fingertips until distributed evenly.  Add water and lemon juice and
  mix to a firm dough.  Knead lightly, cover and leave to rest for 30
  minutes.
  
  Roll out dough thinly (about the thickness of a normal pie crust) and
  cut into 15 cm (6 inch) rounds.  Take a round of pastry and moisten
  edges with a little water.  Place a good tablespoonful of filling in
  centre, fold over and press edges to seal well.  Flute edge with
  fingers or press with tines of fork.
  
  Place finished pies on lightly greased baking trays and glaze tops
  with an egg beaten with a little milk.  Bake in a hot oven for 10
  minutes, reduce to moderate and bake for further 20 minutes.  Serve
  hot or cold.
  
                   From: "The Complete Middle East Cookbook" by Tess
  Mallos
                   ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
                   Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Korean Bean Thread Sesame Noodles with Vegetables
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 oz Chinese dried mushrooms
    1/2 oz Chinese dried cloud ears
    1/4 lb Bean thread noodles
      2 oz Carrot
      1    Green pepper
      1 sm Onion
      2 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 c  Water

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      3 tb Sesame oil
  1 1/2 tb Sesame seeds
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Soak the dried mushrooms in warm water for 20 minutes until soft.
  Squeeze the excess liquid from the mushrooms and remove and discard
  the stalks. Cut the caps into shreds.  Soak the cloud ears in warm
  water for about 20 minutes or until soft.  Rince them well in cold
  water and drain them thoroughly in a colander.
  
  Soak the noodles in a large bowl of very hot water for 15 minutes.
  When soft, drain well.  Cut the noodles into 3-inch lengths, using
  scissors or a knife.
  
  Peel and finely shred the carrot.  Finely shred the pepper and onion.
  
  Heat a wok or large frying pan and add the oil.  When moderately hot,
  add the mushrooms, cloud ears, carrot, onion, green pepper, and water
  and stir-fry for 5 minutes or until the carrots are cooked.
  
  Combine the sauce ingredients and add them to the vegetables. Give the
  mixture a good stir, then add the noodles.  Stir-fry the mixture for 2
  minutes until well heated through. Serve at once or at room
  temperature.
  
  Source: Asian Vegetarian Feast - by Ken Hom William Morrow and
  Company, Inc. - New York ISBN: 0-688-07753-6 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Korean Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Soy sauce
      4 ts Rice vinegar
      1 ts Sesame oil
 
  Mix all ingredients.  Serve with sauteed bean curd.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey's "World of the East Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Koushari (Lentils, Macaroni and Rice in Oil)
 Categories: Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Ads iswid (brown lentils)
           Water
           Salt
      1 c  Small macaroni noodles
      1 c  Short grain rice
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Tomato puree

MMMMM-------------------------TA'LEYA II------------------------------
      2 lg Onions
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1    Garlic clove (or more)
           -- finely chopped
 
  This is classed as an 'oil' dish by Coptic Egyptians and is prepared
  during periods of fasting when animal products cannot be taken.  You
  may cook the lentils, macaroni and rice simultaneously in 3 pots, or
  if, like me, you like to keep pots to a minimum, use the method
  given.  This is the way they prepare it in Egypt anyway.
  
  Place lentils in a sieve and wash well under running water.  Place in
  a large pot and add 3 cups water and 1 teaspoon salt.  Bring to the
  boil, then simmer for 1 hour until tender but still intact.  Drain
  and keep aside.
  
  Clean same pot and add 4 cups water.  Bring to the boil, add 2
  teaspoons salt and the macaroni.  Stir constantly until water returns
  to the boil and cook, uncovered, for 15 minutes until tender.  Stir
  occasionally. Drain and keep aside.  Clean pot again and dry.
  
  Wash rice well in sieve under running water and drain.  Heat oil in
  pot and fry rice over medium heat for 2-3 minutes.  Add 2 cups water
  and 1 teaspoon salt and bring to the boil, stirring occasionally.
  Cover and simmer over low heat for 15 minutes or until tender.  Leave
  covered off the heat for 5 minutes for grains to separate.
  
  Prepare the ta'leya (directions below), add tomato puree and bring to
  the boil.
  
  Add lentils and macaroni to cooked rice and toss together lightly
  with a fork.  Pour hot ta'leya and tomato mixture on top, toss again
  and cover pot.  Leave over low heat for 10 minutes.  Serve hot.
  
  TA'LEYA: Halve peeled onions lengthwise then slice thinly to give
  semicircles.  Heat olive oil in a pan, add onions and fry over medium
  heat until golden brown.  Add garlic and cook a minute longer.
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook, by Tess Mallos Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lakhnawi Khatti Dal (Lucknow Sour Lentils)
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Pink lentils
      1 tb Finely chopped ginger
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Boiling water
      2 ts Salt
      5 tb Ghee
      1 ts Black cumin seeds
      1 tb Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Red pepper
 
  Wash lentils thoroughly.  Place in a saucepan with the turmeric & 5
  cups of water.  Bring to a boil, stirring often.  Reduce heat &
  simmer, partially covered, for 25 minutes.  Stir occasionally.  Add
  lemon juice to lentils & cook for a further 15 minutes.  Turn off
  heat & beat with a wire whisk.
  
  Heat ghee, when very hot, add cumin seeds & fry for about 10 seconds.
  Remove pan from the heat & add red pepper & minced garlic.  Stir
  rapidly for 10 seconds until the garlic begins to colour, but do not
  let it brown. Pour over the hot puree.  Serve immediately.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lebanese Eggplant
 Categories: Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Medium eggplant -peel & dice
      1    Clove of garlic
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 cn Tomatoes (drained) 16 oz.
    1/2 ts Brown sugar
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Shopped onion
    1/2 c  Sliced mushroom
      1 tb All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Dried whole basil
 
  Cook eggplant in boiling water (salted) 8-10 min., drain well. Saute
  onion, garlic, mushrooms in olive oil. Add flour, stir until smooth.
  Add tomatoes and other ingredients.  Bring to a boil. Remove from
  heat. Layer in lightly grease 1 qt. casserole.  Bake at 375 degree
  for 25 minutes.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lebanese Herb Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian, Misc/food
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Pita bread
    1/2    Head leaf lettuce; washed,
           -dried, and chopped
      1 bn Cilantro; chopped
      1 bn Scallions; thinly sliced
      3    Tomatoes; diced
      2 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 tb Fresh mint, chopped
      1 tb Sumac
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2    Lemons; juiced
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Bake the pita bread so that it is dry.  Break the bread up into small
  pieces and set them aside.
  
  In a medium bowl place the lettuce, red bell peppers, cilantro,
  scallions, tomatoes, parsley, mint, and sumac.  Toss the ingredients
  together.
  
  Add the olive oil and toss it in well.
  
  Add the lemon juice, cinnamon, salt and pepper.  Toss the ingredients
  together well.
  
  Add the pita bread pieces and toss them in.
  
  Source: Papa Garo's - Redondo Beach, California "Southern California
  Beach Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lebanese Tabbouleh
 Categories: Salad, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Fine grain cracked wheat
           - (bulgur)
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt; or to taste
      3 c  Finely chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Finely chopped scallions
      2 c  Finely chopped ripe tomatoes
           - (if not ripe, omit)
  1 1/2 c  Fresh spearmint leaves
           - (finely chopped)
           -(if necessary, substitute
           -  another mint)
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
    3/4 c  Olive oil
 
  RINSE THE CRACKED WHEAT several times then cover with water by
  1/2-inch and let soak for 20 minutes, then drain well, squeezing out
  excess water. Combine minced onion with the allspice, pepper and
  salt. Set aside. In a large bowl, combine the parsley, scallions,
  tomatoes and mint. Gently fold in the drained wheat and refrigerate
  until an hour before serving. Just before serving, stir in the
  seasoned onion and dress with lemon juice and oil to taste.
  
  Deborah Madison, "Prodigy Guest Chefs Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Leek & Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Leeks
      6 ea Boiling potatoes
      3 md Tomatoes
      2 md Onions
      5 tb Ghee
      4 c  Stock
      2 ts Sugar
           Salt & pepper
           Water
 
  Split & thoroughly wash leeks.  Cut into chunks.  Dice potaotes &
  chop the tomatoes.  Thinly slice onions.  Melt 3 tb ghee in pot & add
  onions & leek. Simmer very gently for 5 minutes.  Add tomatoes
  followed by potatoes. Simmer gently for 2 minutes.  Add stock.  Bring
  to a boil. Stir in sugar, salt & pepper to taste.  Reduce heat &
  simmer. Cook until potatoes are soft.  Cool & then blend, using extra
  water if necessary.
  
  Re-heat before serving.  Top with croutons.  Thin with water if
  desired. Will keep well in the fridge.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Legumes in Garlic and Onions
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Pigeon peas, soaked, 20 mins
      1 qt Water
    1/2 ts Turmeric
           Salt
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 tb Black mustard seeds
      2 ts Cumin seeds
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      6 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
    1/2 ts Dried red chilies
 
  Wash pigeon peas & boil them with the water & turmeric & salt for 20
  minutes.  Heat oil in medium pot, add mustard & cumin seeds & fry
  until mustard seeds start to pop.  Stir in onion & garlic & fry till
  browned & & soft.  Mix in ground chili & stir for 30 seconds.  Remove
  & pour over peas. Stir thoroughly, cover & simmer for 10 minutes,
  stirring occasionally. Serve hot with plain rice.
  
  Rani, "Feast of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Cream Dressing
 Categories: Dressing, Salad, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Tahini
      8 oz Firm (or firm silken) tofu
      1    Lemon; zested and juiced
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      1    Garlic clove; minced
    1/4 c  Brown rice syrup; -OR-
    1/3 c  -Honey
      2 tb White miso
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Place all ingredients in a blender and blend until the mixture is
  smooth. Cool and use as desired.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M.
  :       ISBN: 0-89815-377-8
  :       Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Drop Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Shortening
      2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      3 c  Flour
 
  Beat shortening for 30 seconds.  Add sugar & continue to beat till
  light & fluffy.  Combine lemon juice & water.  Combine the dry
  ingredients. Alternately mix the dry & wet ingredients with the
  beaten mixture.  Mix well.  Drop by spoonful onto a greased cookie
  sheet.
  
  Bake for 8 to 10 minutes at 450F.
  
  Makes about 60 to 70.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Grass Spicy Vegetables (Pat Pet Takrai)
 Categories: Thai, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 lg Dried red chilis
           -- coarsely chopped
      1 ts Coarsely chopped galangal
      2 sm Red shallots
           -- coarsley chopped
      3 oz Ready-fried beancurd
           -- finely diced
           Oil; for deep-frying
      2 tb Oil
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Lemongrass, finely chopped
           -- into rings
      1 tb Grated coconut
      2 oz Long beans; coarsely chopped
           -- into 1-inch lengths
      1 md Broccoli stem
           -- coarsely chopped at an
           -- angle into 1-inch lengths
      2 oz Baby sweetcorn
           -- roughly chopped at an
           -- angle into 1-inch lengths
      1    Carrot; finely chopped
           -- into matchsticks
      3 tb Vegetable stock
      2 tb Light soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  In a mortar, pound together the chilis, galangal and shallots to form
  a paste and set aside.  Deep-fry the beancurd dice until crispy
  brown, drain and set aside.
  
  Heat the 2 tbsp (30 ml) oil and fry the garlic golden brown.  Stir in
  the paste, add the lemon grass and coconut, stirring well.  Add all
  the vegetables and briefly stir-fry.  Add the stock, soy sauce and
  sugar. Stir well and turn on to a serving dish.
  
  Source: The Lemon Grass Restaurant, Bangkok _Thai Vegetarian Cooking_
  by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Herb Quinoa
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Quinoa
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 c  -Water
    3/4 ts Dried marjoram or oregano
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
    1/4 ts Dried rosemary; crumbled
      3 tb Chopped parsley
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Place the quinoa in a large bowl; fill with cold water.  Drain into a
  strainer and repeat the rinsing and draining 4 more times.
  
  Over medium-high heat, heat the oil in a 2-quart saucepan.  Add the
  rinsed quinoa and cook, stirring, until the quinoa makes cracking and
  popping noises, about 3 to 5 minutes.  Stir in the water, marjoram,
  thyme, and rosemary.  Bring to a boil, reduce the heat, and simmer,
  covered, 15 minutes.
  
  Stir in the parsley, lemon juice, salt, lemon rind, and pepper.
  Simmer, covered, 5 minutes longer.  Fluff with a fork.
  
  Serves 4 to 6
  
  Calories:       206                     Total Fat:      3.2 g
  Protein: 6.0 g                   Saturated Fat:  1.2 g Carbohydrates:
  33.0 g Cholesterol:    0 Fiber: 4.1 g Sodium: 451 mg
  
  Source: Wholesome Harvest - by Carol Gelles (ISBN: 0-316-30735-1)
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemony Radish Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      2 tb Minced chives
      2 tb Minced parsley
      1 ts Tamari
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 c  Thinly sliced radishes
 
  Mix all ingredients together well & refrigerate till ready to serve.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil & Brown Rice Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lentils
    1/3 c  Brown rice
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 ea Bay leaves
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      2 md Carrots, sliced
      1 lg Celery stalk, chopped
     14 oz Can tomatoes, chopped
    1/2 c  Tomato juice
    1/4 c  Sherry
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 ts Thyme
           Salt & pepper
 
  Place first 6 ingredients in large soup pot.  Cover with 3 cups water
  & bring to a boil.  Cover & simmer for 7 to 8 minutes.  Add 2 more
  cups of water along with the rest of the ingredients.  Cover & simmer
  for 25 to 30 minutes.  Serve hot.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil and Buckwheat Slice
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz Roasted Buckwheat
      1    Carrot
      1    Onion
      1 ts Oil
      6 oz Red Lentils
      1 pt Veg stock
           Dried herbs
           -(parsley + rosemary
           - are recommended)
      1 ts Marmite
           -(for the Brits amongst you)
      1 pn Nutmeg
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  1.Chop onion and carrot, saute in oil in a fairly large saucepan
  2.Add all other ingredients - bring to boil 3.Simmer for 30 minutes,
  until liquid is absorbed 4.While 3. is taking place, preheat oven to
  200C/400F/Gas Mark 6 5.Put mixture in loaf/flan dish 6.Put loaf/flan
  dish in 4. above. 7.Cook for 30 minutes
  
  Note:  I see no reason why you would need to use the oil, just cut up
  the carrots extra small, place  all ingredients in the pan and start
  at 2.
  
  Posted by Pat Buttons
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Burgers
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Dried red lentils
           -Water, to cook
      1 c  Bread crumbs
           - (preferably wholewheat)
      1 lg Onion; finely chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
           - more to taste
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Wash lentils thoroughly & pick out any sticks & stones & grit which
  might get in them.  In a large pot, bring the water to a rolling
  boil.  Add lentils & cook for 20-25 minutes until the lentils start
  to puree.  Drain & let cool. It is not necessary to let them get cold.
  
  Transfer the cooked lentils to a large mixing bowl.   Add bread
  crumbs, garlic & onion & mix thoroughly.  Season well.
  
  You then can experiment with herbs & spices.  I usually add loads of
  cajun spice, with healthy measures of parsley, basil & majoram.  You
  could try thyme or sage.  It is your choice.
  
  If the mixture does not hold together well enough, add more bread
  crumbs. Form into patties & then cook as you would a regular
  hamburger in a little oil.  Or barbecue.  If they are really dry,
  then they hold together well enough to barbecue.
  
  Serve in buns with old fashioned dijon mustard & chips ooops, errrr
  fries.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Dahl
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Green or brown lentils
      1 ea Cinnamon stick, 3"
      1 ea Bay leaf
      3 md Garlic cloves, peeled, whole
      2 sl Ginger root, 1" thick
      1 ts Turmeric
    3/4 ea Lemon
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      3 tb Ghee
      1 pn Asafetida
    1/2 ts Whole cumin seeds
 
  Wash lentils & drain.  Combine with 6 cups water, cinnamon stick, bay
  leaf, garlic cloves, ginger slices & turmeric. Bring to a boil, lower
  heat & simmer for 40 minutes, till lentils are tender & the water has
  been reduced significantly.
  
  Slice lemon thinly & add to the pot with salt, black pepper & cayenne.
  Simmer for a further 5 minutes.
  
  Just before serving, heat ghee till hot, add asafetida & cumin seeds &
  saute till the seeds begin to colour.  Pour over top of dahl & serve
  over rice.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lentils
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      4 c  Seasoned stock
           Oil for sauteeing
    1/2 c  Bulghur
    1/4 c  Soy grits
      1 c  Yogurt
      2 tb Mayonaisse
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      2 ts Lemon juice
      6 c  Chopped spinach
 
  Cook lentils & onion in 2 c stock until tender but not mushy, about 25
  minutes.  Drain excess water.  Heat oil in a skillet & saute bulgur &
  soy grits for 5 to 10 minutes.  Stir constantly.  Heat remaining
  stock, add to skillet & cook over a low heat till light & fluffy --
  10 minutes.  Let cool.
  
  Mix yogurt, mayonnaise, garlic, mustard & lemon juice.  Combine grain
  with lentils & vegetables & toss in the dressing.  Chill if desired.
  
  Frances Moore Lappe, "Diet for a Small Planet"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Stuffed Peppers
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Red lentils
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      4 md Green bell peppers
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      2    Onions, chopped
      2    Green chilies
      1    1 inch piece ginger, grated
      1 tb Ground coriander
  1 1/4 c  Water
           Salt & pepper
      2 tb Chopped cilantro
 
  Rinse lentils & soak for 30 minutes.  Heat half oil in skillet.  Add
  peppers & cook for 3 to 5 minutes till golden brown.  Drain & cool.
  Add remaining oil to pan.  Cook cumin till they begin to pop.  Add
  onions & chilies & cook for 8 minutes.  Stir in ginger & coriander.
  Drain lentils & add to the pan with water.  Stir well & cover.  Cook
  for 15 to 20 minutes til lthe liquid has evaporated.
  
  Stir in salt & pepper.  Add cilantro.  Cut tops off peppers & remove
  seeds. Stuff with the lentils & replace the tops.  Stand in a baking
  dish. Bake at 350F for 15 minutes.
  
  Linda Fraser, "Curries & Indian Foods"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil-Walnut Burgers
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Dry lentils
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2 ts Cider vinegar
      1 tb Margarine
      1 c  Onion; finely minced
      2    Garlic cloves; crushed
     10 lg Mushrooms; minced
    1/2 c  Walnuts; finely minced
      1 sm Celery stalk; finely minced
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Dry sherry
    1/2 c  Raw wheat germ
 
   This takes about 40 minutes to prepare: you can do "part 1" while
  "part 2" is cooking, plus about 1 hour to chill, then 15 minutes to
  cook.
  
   Makes between 4 to 6 servings, depending on the size of patties you
  make and the hunger of participants.
  
   Note: uncooked burgers may be individually wrapped and frozen.
  
  Part 1:  Bring lentils and water to a boil in saucepan. Lower the
  heat, and simmer, partly-covered, 30 minutes, or until lentils are
  soft, and liquid is gone.  Place in large-ish bowl.  Add vinegar, and
  mash.
  
  Part 2:  Saute remaining ingredients, except for wheat germ, together
  over medium-low heat 10 to 15 minutes, or until all is tender. Add to
  the mashed lentils, and mix well.  Add wheat germ and mix again.
  Chill for about 1 hour.
  
  The Burgers:
  
   1. Make 4-inch patties from chilled burger-mixture.  For freezing,
  make patties, place wax paper between each patty and stack; wrap well
  and freeze (or wrap individually).
  
   2. Fry burgers in butter until brown, *or* broil about 8 minutes on
  each side.  Try putting sesame seeds in pan to keep burgers from
  sticking to pan, if it is a problem.
  
   3. Serve either as patties, or as burgers in a whole-wheat bun. Good
  with cheese melted on top, basil sprinkled on each burger is tasty
  also.
  
  Mollie Katzen, "Moosewood Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentils with Zucchini
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lentils
  2 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      3 tb Ghee
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 sl 1/2" piece ginger
      1 ea Green chili, chopped
      1 sm Zucchini, chopped
           Salt
    1/2 ts Garam masala
      1 ts Cumin seeds
 
  Place lentils, water & turmeric in a pot over medium heat & bring to a
  boil.  Continue cooking, removing the froth from the top from time to
  time.
  
  In a separate pot, heat half the ghee.  Saute onion & garlic till
  golden. Stir in ginger, chili & zucchini.  Mix thoroughly & continue
  to cook for 5 minutes.
  
  Transfer the lentils to the zucchini mixture.  Stir in salt & garam
  masala. Half cover the pot, lower the heat & cook for 15 minutes.
  
  In the remaining ghee, toss in the cumin seeds & heat till they sizle
  & change colour.
  
  Serve lentils hot with the ghee/cumin seeds.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lesleigh's Whole Grain Batter Bread
 Categories: Bread, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Rice or soy milk *
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Maple syrup
      4 ts Salt (uh, is this right? KM)
      1 c  Water
      6 ts Yeast
      3 ts Egg replacer
      6 tb Water
    1/3 c  Uncooked oatmeal
    1/4 c  Wheateena cereal; cooked in
      1 c  -Water, and cooled
      2 c  Whole wheat flour
      3 c  All purpose flour
 
  NOTE on rice or soy milk: if it's a thick milk, dilute it to the
  consistency of cow's milk)
  
  Simply mix all ingredients until all is blended.Dough will be very
  sticky.Divide evenly into 2 oiled or sprayed with Pam loaf pans.Allow
  to rise until doubled (it's a pretty dense bread,but on a warm
  day,rising should be completed in about 4 hours) Bake in a preheated
  375 degree oven for about 1 hour. Terrific for sandwiches or as a
  breakfast food!
  
  FROM:    L HERSHKOWITZ        (BDBG15B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lettuce Salad
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ea Lettuce
           A few spring onions
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 tb White vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pn Black pepper
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Chopped garlic
 
  Wash lettuce & separate the leaves.  Allow to drain.  Beat the rest
  of the ingredients in a bowl.  Add lettuce leaves & turn them gently
  so that all the leaves become coated with the dressing.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, Greek Vegetarian Cookery
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lima Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Frozen lima beans
  3 1/2 c  Sliced carrots
      3 tb Olive oil
      5 ea Green onions, finely chopped
      5 c  Chopped mushrooms
      1 ds Basil
      1 ds Black pepper
      1 ds Cayenne
    3/4 c  Soy sauce
 
  Cook lima beans in water according to packet instructions.  Steam
  carrots till tender.  Drain reserving cooking water.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet & saute green onions & mushrooms until tender.
  Add spices & saute for a further 1 minute.
  
  Combine all ingredients (except milk) along with 1 cup of bean &
  carrot water.  Using a blender, blend in batches till smooth.  Pour
  mixture into a large soup pot.  Add milk. Cook slowly for 15 to 20
  minutes.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lone Dao Jiow (Dao Jiow Coconut Sauce with Fresh Vegetabl
 Categories: Vegetarian, Thai
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Coconut Milk
   3/16 c  Brown bean sauce (dao jiow)
    1/4 lb Mixed vegetables
      1 tb Palm sugar
      1 tb Tamarind liquid
  1 1/2 sm Cucumbers
  1 1/2 sl Green cabbage
      3    Green beans
  1 1/2 lb Shallots
 
  Notes:
  
  For the mixed veg I use things like water chestnuts, green beans,
  cauliflower etc etc. The original recipe had pork and shrimp but I
  changed it, and it works fine :-)
  
  Preparation:
  
  Slice the shallots lengthways Use brown sugar if palm sugar isn;t
  available. Peel and slice the cucumbers diagonally into thick ovals
  trim the green beans cut the cabbage into two inc wedges
  
  1. In a small, heavy bottomed saucepan, bring the coconut milk to a
  gentle
     simmer over a low heat. Cook, stirring gently,until the coconut
     milk is fragent and it's oil glistens on the surface (about 6-8
  mins)
  
  2. While it simmers, combine the bean sauce and half of the shallots
  in
     a mortar. Using a pestle, mash the mixture to a chunky paste.
  
  3. When the coconut milk is ready add the shallot paste and stir well.
     Add all the vegetables except the cucumbers, cabbage,green beans
  and
     the remaining shallots. Cook for five minutes
  
  4. Add the sugar and simmer until the shallots wilt and the sugar
  melts, 1
     to 2 minutes. Add the tamarind and taste the sauce, which should
  be a
     balance of salty, sour and sweet.
  
  5. Transfer the sauce to a small bowl and place it on a plate,
  garnished
     with the cucumbers, cabbage wedges and green beans. Serve warm or
  at
     room temperature.
  
  Shared by Kaz Glover
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lucknawi Dal
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Pink lentils
  1 1/2 qt Water
           Salt
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Tamarind paste
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      6 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      1 ea 1" piece ginger, chopped
    1/2 ts Dried red chilies
 
  Wash lentils & boil in water with salt, turmeric & tamarind over
  medium heat for 20 minutes.  Heat oil in a small pot.  Add cumin
  seeds & fry for a minute.  Stir in onion, garlic & ginger & fry till
  onion is browned & soft. Add chili & stir fro 30 seconds.  Remove &
  pour over lentils, mix thoroughly & return to a boil.  Serve with
  rice.
  
  Rani, "Feast of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ma Po
 Categories: Chinese, Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Vegetable broth
    1/3 c  Hoisin sauce
      1 tb Rice wine/dry sherry
    1/3 c  Ketchup
    1/2 ts Hot sauce
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 lb Firm tofu, cut to 1/2" cubes
      2 c  Mung bean sprouts
      1 tb Cornstarch mixed with 2
           -- tablespoons water
      2 ea Green onions, slivered
 
  In a small bowl, combine broth, hoisin sauce, rice wine or sherry,
  ketchup & hot sauce.  Set aside.
  
  Place a wok over high heat, when hot, add vegetable oil.  Add garlic
  & stir for 5 seconds.  Add tofu & stir fry for 2 minutes.  Stir in
  reserved sauce & cook 1 minute.  Add bean sprouts & cook another
  minute.  Add dissolved cornstarch & stir till sauce thickens.
  
  Serve over noodles tossed in sesame oil or over steamed rice..
  Garnish with onions.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "World of the East Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Mushroom Salad
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh mushroom
      1 c  White vinegar
      2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sliced carrots
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Green peppers strips
    1/2 c  Red pepper strips
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Oregano leaves, crushed
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Black pepper
 
  Rince, pat dry and slice mushrooms.  In a medium saucepan combine
  vinegar and mushrooms; bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer,
  covered for 2 mins. Drain mushrooms; set aside to cool.  In a small
  saucepan bring water to boil. Add carrots & celery; return to boil.
  Reduce heat and simmer covered for 3 mins. Add red, green peppers;
  cover and simmer for 3 mins or until tender.  Drain and set aside to
  cool.  In medium bowl mix olive oil, oregano & salt, black pepper;
  let stand 10 mins.  Stir in mishrooms, carrots, and other vegetables.
  Mix well.  Cover and refrigerate at least 2 hrs.  before serving.
  
  Lucinda Hollace Berry, "300 Sensational Salads"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mark's Carrot Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Cinnamon powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 c  White sugar
      2 c  Grated carrots
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Sift & mix the flour, baking soda, baking powder, cinnamon & salt.
  Add the oil & sugar.  Mix well.  Stir in the carrots & walnuts.
  Enusre that all is well mixed.  Transfer to a greased cake tin
  approx. 20 cm X 20 cm. Bake at 350F for about an hour or until a
  knife inserted in the centre of the cake comes out clean.  Cool for a
  few minutes on a wire rack.  Turn out & let cool completely.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mark's Fabulous Vinaigrette Salad Dressing
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Extra Virgin olive oil
    1/2 c  Malt vinegar
      1 lg Garlic clove, crushed
    1/4 ts Dijon mustard
      2 ts Tarragon
      1 ts Dillweed
           Salt & pepper
 
  Combine all ingredients in a salad bottle.  Shake well.  If keeping
  in the fridge, remember to warm up to room temperature about an hour
  before serving.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mark's Very Own Fried Rice
 Categories: Rice, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked rice
      1 lg Onion, finely chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 lg Carrot, scrubbed & diced
      1 md Green pepper, diced
    1/2 c  Frozen corn &/or peas
      1 ea 3" piece ginger root, sliced
    1/2 ts Chili pieces
           Soy sauce
           Salt & pepper, to taste
 
  Ensure that the rice has been cooked ahead of time & is well cooled.
  
  Heat about 2 to 3 tb vegetable oil in a wok.  When hot, add onions &
  garlic & fry for 3 minutes.  Add the carrots & stir-fry for 2
  minutes. Add the rest of the vegetables & continue to stir-fry for 2
  or 3 minutes. Toss in the chili pieces & ginger root.  Cook for a few
  seconds. Carefully stir in the cold rice.  Lower heat & continue to
  cook, stirring occasionally for 5 minutes.  Add enough soy sauce to
  coat the rice & cook for a further 5 minutes on low heat, stirring
  often to prevent sticking. Season if desired with salt & pepper.
  Serve when heated through.
  
  This goes great with spicy tofu dishes or works well on its own as a
  main dish in its own right.
  
  If you desire something hotter, add more chili pieces. Use pieces
  rather than powder because they are hotter.
  
  For a variation, I sometimes toss in a few strips of tofu just before
  adding the spices.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Masala Dal
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Yellow split peas
    1/3 ts Turmeric
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Ghee
      1 ts Cumin seeds
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped onions
    1/4 ts Red pepper
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
 
  Wash peas well.  Place in a bowl, cover with hot water & let sit for
  an hour.  Drain.  Place in a large pot, add 4 1/2 cups water & throw
  in the turmeric.  Bring to a boil, stirring occasionally.  Reduce
  heat to medium low, partially cover & simmer for 45 minutes.  Remove
  from heat, beat with a wire whisk till the mixture is finely pureed.
  Stir in salt & set aside.
  
  When ready to serve, simmer puree over low heat till piping hot.
  Heat ghee in a skillet over medium high heat.  When very hot, add
  cumin seeds & fry for 10 seconds.  Lower heat, add onions & fry for
  20 minutes, stirring constantly to prevent burning.  Stir in red
  pepper & immediately pour in to the puree.  Garnish with coriander.
  
  Serve with a potato dish, rice & bread.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Masalewali Alu Mattar Khumben
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Ghee
      1 lg Onion, sliced
      4 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ea 1" piece ginger, chopped
      1 tb Garam masala
      1 ts Turmeric
    1/4 ts Dried red chilies
      2 lb Potatoes, cubed
           Salt
    1/2 c  Water
      2 lb Mushrooms, halved
      1 c  Peas, fresh or frozen
 
  Heat ghee in large pot.  Add onion & garlic & fry till browned.  Stir
  in ginger & fry for 2 minutes.  Add garam masala, turmeric & chili,
  stirring for a minute.  Stir in potatoes, salt & water.  Mix well,
  bring to a boil & simmer for 8 to 10 minutes.  Stir occasionally.
  Add mushrooms & peas & stir.  Cook, covered, for 5 to 8 minutes.
  Remove lid, raise heat & cook till 3/4 of water has evaporated.
  Stirring constantly.  Serve with dal.
  
  Rani, "Feast of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Masar Dal
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Pink lentils
    3/4 ts Turmeric
      2 ts Salt
      5 tb Ghee
      6 lg Garlic cloves
 
  Wash lentils.  Place in a deep pot with the turmeric & 5 cups of
  water. Bring to a bol, stirring often.  Reduce heat to medium-low &
  simmer for 15 to 20 minutes.  Turn off heat & beat lentils with a
  wire whisk to smooth the puree.  Stir in the salt.
  
  When ready to serve, simemr the puree till pi[ping hot.  Heat the
  ghee in a skillet.  When hot, add garlic slices & fry till they start
  to turn brown. Pour this over the lentil puree.  Stir to mix & serve.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maya's Potatoes
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 md Potatoes
           Oil for deep frying
      1 ea Onion, coarsely chopped
      4 ea Garlic cloves, pressed
      6 tb Oil
      1 pn Asafetida
      7 ea Fenugreek seeds
    1/2 ts Fennel seeds
    1/4 ts Black onion seeds
    1/4 ts Black mustard seeds
      1 ea Bay leaf
      3 ea Dried red peppers
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      2 md Tomatoes, chopped
      1 pn Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  Boil potatoes at least 2 hours ahead.  Leave to cool.  Just before
  cooking the dish, cube them into bite-sized pieces.
  
  Heat oil over a medium flame.  Fry potatoes in small batches till
  golden brown on all sides.  Drain & set aside.  Save some of the oil
  for later use.
  
  Blend onion & garlic with 3 tb water.  Heat 6 tb oil in large pot.
  When very hot, add asafetida, fenugreek, fennel, onion, & mustard
  seeds & bay leaf & red pepper in quick succession.  Fry 20 seconds
  till bay leaf darkens.  Add paste from the blender & turmeric.  Fry,
  stirring for 5 minutes.  Add tomatoes & sugar.  Gently stir in 2 c
  water, salt & potatoes. Bring to a boil.  Cover & simer for 10
  minutes.  Turn each potato over & simmer another 10 minutes.  Serve
  hot.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mediterranean Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  French or Italian bread;
           -preferably day old
           -cut in 2 inch cubes
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 c  English cucumber
           -in 1/2 inch cubes
    1/3 c  Red pepper; 1/2 inch pieces
    1/2 c  Green onions; thinly sliced
      4 c  Parsley leaves
           -coarsely chopped
      2 md Tomatoes; cut in 1/2 " cubes

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 ts -Salt
      1 lg Garlic cloves;finely chopped
    1/2 ts -pepper, black, ground
      1 ts Cinnamon, ground
    1/4 ts Allspice, ground
      9 tb Olive oil; extra virgin
 
  ""NOTE: After a couple of hours, the croutons will start to absorb the
  dressing. Some people like this; others (including the reviewer for
  Toronto Life!) do not. Time the addition of the croutons to suit your
  taste."
  
  Preheat oven to 350F. Spread the bread cubes on a large baking sheet
  & toss with the oil. Bake in the preheated oven until golden brown,
  turning them every few minutes. They will take 10 to 20 minutes,
  depending on how fresh the bread is. Assemble the cucumber, peppers,
  green onion and parsley in a large bowl; leave out the tomatoes for
  now. Prepare the dressing: Stir the lemon juice, salt and garlic
  together until the salt dissolves. Add the pepper, cinnamon and
  allspice, then slowly beat in the olive oil. (May be prepared up to
  12 hours ahead to this point.) Place the cut up tomatoes on top of
  the other vegetables. Pour on the dressing and toss well; add the
  croutons and toss again (see note).
  
  David Wood "The David Wood Food Book"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Middle Eastern Carrot Salad
 Categories: Salad, Misc/food
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Grated carrots
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      3 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Chopped fresh mint
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      1 ts Sugar or maple syrup
 
  Mix all ingredients together & chill at least one hour before serving.
  
  "New Recipes From Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mihshi Malfuf Bi Zayt (Meatless Cabbage Rolls)
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------RICE AND CHICK PEA STUFFING---------------------
  1 1/2 c  Chopped spring onions
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 c  Long grain rice
      1 c  Canned chickpeas; drained
    1/2 c  Finely chopped parsley
      1 c  Chopped, peeled tomatoes
    1/2 ts Ground allspice
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM-------------------------TO FINISH------------------------------
     24    Cabbage leaves
      3    Garlic cloves
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Dried mint
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Olive oil
 
  Gently fry spring onion in 1/4 cup olive oil for 2-3 minutes.  Turn
  into a bowl and add remaining stuffing ingredients, adding salt and
  pepper to taste.
  
  Remove leaves from cabbage carefully so as not to tear them, counting
  larger leaves as 2.  Par-boil cabbage leaves in boiling water until
  limp enough to handle, cooking leaves in 2 to 3 lots.  Drain in a
  colander.
  
  Cut out larger part of centre rib in each leaf and cut larger leaves
  in half down centre.  Line base of a deep pan with ribs and any torn
  leaves.
  
  Place a generous tablespoon stuffing on base of each leaf, roll up
  once and tuck in sides to contain filling.  Roll to end of leaf.
  Repeat with remaining ingredients.
  
  Crush garlic with salt and blend in crumbled, crushed mint and lemon
  juice.
  
  Pack rolls flap side down in lined pan, sprinkling some of the
  garlic-lemon mixture and olive oil between layers of rolls.  Invert a
  plate on top of the rolls to keep them intact during cooking.  Add
  enough cold water to just cover rolls and put lid on firmly.
  
  Bring to the boil on medium heat, reduce to low and simmer gently for
  45 minutes.  Remove from heat and leave aside for 30 minutes.  Serve
  lukewarm or cold.
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook - by Tess Mallos Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Millet and Turnip "Mashed Potatoes"
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------FORMATTED BY S.GRABOWSKI-----------------------
      4 c  Millet
      6 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      4 c  Diced turnips
 
  Wash millet and drain with a fine mesh strainer until water comes
  clean. Place millet in a heavy pot and add cooking water. Let soak
  4-8 hours or overnight before cooking.
  
  Add salt and diced turnips. Bring to a boil, place heat deflector
  under the pot, then simmer over low flame for 45-50 minutes. For a
  creamier texture, allow millet to sit in the pot 10 minutes before
  uncovering. Mash with a potato masher; if necessary, add a cup of
  water while mashing to make a mashed potato consistency. Transfer to
  a serving bowl and cover. Serve with an ice cream scoop and top with
  gravy.
  
  Total calories per serving: 207  Fat: 2 grams
  
  From the Vegetarian Journal  Nov/Dec 1992,page 7 From: Susan Grabowski
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Millet Loaf
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Millet
      6 c  Water
      2 tb Oil
      3 ea Onions, diced
      2 ea Green bell peppers, diced
      2 ea Celery stalks, diced
      4 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Tahini
    1/4 c  Wheat germ
      2 c  Tomato sauce
      3 tb Nutritional yeast
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Bring water to a boil & add the millet.  Cook
  over medium heat for 25 minutes or till the water is absorbed.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet over medium-high heat.  Add onions, peppers,
  celery & fresh garlic.  Saute for 5 minutes.  Add seasonings & cook
  for a further 2 minutes.  Mix into the millet.  Add tahini & wheat
  germ & half the tomato sauce.  Mix well & season to taste.
  
  Shape into an 8" x 12" loaf pan.  Pour over remaining sauce, sprinkle
  yeast on top & bake for 30 minutes.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Millet Muffins
 Categories: Bread, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Millet flour
    1/2 c  Soy flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt (optional)
    1/4 ts Orange flavoring
      1 c  Water or orange juice
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Rice syrup or honey
 
  Combine all dry ingredients in a medium bowl. Mix all liquid
  ingredients together, then add to dry ingredients. Put mixture in
  well oiled muffin tins (makes 12 muffins. You can also make a loaf
  bread from this.) Bake at 375(F) for 15-20 minutes (35-40 for loaf)
  or until done.
  
  This recipe comes from Arrowhead Mills Posted by: kupstas@cs.unc.edu
  (Eileen Kupstas)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Millet-Cauliflower Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 tb Oil, plus oil for sauteing
    1/2 c  Millet
  1 1/2 c  Water
      3    Celery stalks; chopped
      1    Green pepper; chopped
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; chopped
      1 lg Carrot; grated or chopped
      6 c  Water
      1 md Head of cauliflower
           -- very coarsely chopped
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Dry vegetable soup base
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Mint
    1/2 ts Chervil
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Ground celery seed
      2 tb White miso
    3/4 c  Raw cashews
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Nutritional yeast
           Salt; to taste
 
  Heat 2 tablespoons oil in a soup pot and toast millet until golden
  brown and beginning to pop.  Remove from heat, add 1-1/2 cups water,
  bring to a boil, and simmer for 20 minutes.  In a medium skillet,
  heat oil and saute celery, green pepper, onion, garlic, and carrot
  until onion is translucent. To millet pot add 6 cups water (for thick
  soup), cauliflower, bay leaf, sauteed mixture, soup base, and herbs
  and celery seed. Simmer for 20 minutes.  In a blender, process miso,
  cashews, 1 cup water, and yeast. Add to soup and simmer 10 minutes.
  Taste for salt and adjust consistency with more water if you like.
  Makes 2 quarts
  
  Source: Diet for a Small Planet, by Frances Moore Lappe. Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minted Eggplants
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Eggplants
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Juice of lemon
      4 tb Freshly chopped mint
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
           Black pepper
      5 oz Yogurt
      4 tb Freshly chopped mint
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
 
  Cut eggplants into 1 cm thick slices & layer them in a colander with
  the salt.  Let them drain for 30 minutes.  Wash them under cold water
  & dry them on paper towels.  Beat together oil, lemon juice, mint,
  cumin, garlic & pepper.  Beat together, separately, the yogurt, mint
  & cumin.
  
  Heat the grill to high.  Lay the eggplant slices on the hot rack &
  brush them with half the lemon mixture.  Grill them until they begin
  to brown. This will take about 2 minutes.  Turn over, brush with the
  rest of the lemon mixture & brown.
  
  Serve grilled eggplants hot with the sauce separately as an
  appetizer.  Or place the eggplant on a large platter & spoon the
  sauce over the top & serve as a vegetable accompaniment for middle
  eastern dishes.
  
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miso Barbequed Tofu
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Arrowroot powder
           -OR- cornstarch
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Barley miso
    1/2 c  Mirin
    1/4 c  Plum sauce
      1 tb Brown sugar
      4    Atsu age cakes
     12 sm Japanese eggplants
      8    Whole shiitake mushrooms
           --(fresh, not dried)
      1 bn Whole green onions
 
  In a small saucepan, whisk together arrowroot and water.  Heat and add
  miso, mirin, plum sauce and brown sugar.  Stir and continue cooking
  until thickened, about 5 minutes.  Remove from heat and let cool.
  
  Slice each eggplant in half lengthwise and trim ends from green
  onions. Wipe shiitake mushrooms with a damp towel to remove dirt.
  Set aside.
  
  Brush grill with oil to prevent sticking.  Cook tofu over medium-hot
  coals 7 to 8 minutes each side until edges start to crisp.  While
  tofu grills, place whole green onions, shiitake mushrooms and
  eggplant (cut-side down) on grill and cook 5 minutes.  Turn and baste
  with miso sauce.  Continue cooking 5 to 8 minutes until eggplant can
  be pierced easily with a fork. Serve with extra sauce.
  
  Per serving: Calories: 398 Grams of Fat: 16 %Fat Calories: 36
  Cholesterol: 0 mg       Grams of Fiber: 6
  
  Source: Delicious! Magazine, July/August 1993 Typos provided by: Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miso Sauce for Pasta
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Safflower oil
      8 ea Scallions, finely chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/4 c  Yellow miso
      1 c  Vegetable stock, warmed
      4 tb Chopped fresh parsley
 
  In a medium skillet, heat oil.  Add scallions & garlic & saute for 3
  minutes.  Transfer to a medium bowl.  Add miso.  Slowly add 1 cup
  stock stirring well all the time.  Add more liquid if you want a
  thinner sauce.
  
  "Vegetarian Times, April 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miso Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, diced
      1 lg Onion, diced
      2 ea Carrots, diced
      2 ea Celery stalks, chopped
      7 c  Vegetable stock
      1 c  Mixed vegetables
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Parsley
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      2 tb Tamari
      1 c  Pasta shells
      4 tb Miso, or more to taste
 
  In a large pot, heat the oil over medium high heat.  Add the garlic &
  onions & saute for 2 minutes.  Add the carrots & celelry & saute for
  another 5 minutes.  Add the stock, mixed vegetables & herbs & spices.
  Cook for 1 hour.  Add the shells & continue to cook till tender.
  
  Dilute the miso in 1 cup warm stock.  Add to the soup & simmer for 30
  minutes.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed Vegetable Cutlets
 Categories: Snack, Vegetable
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Cauliflower florets
      1 c  Potatoes, diced & peeled
      1 c  Green peas, frozen or fresh
      1 c  Green beans, 1/4 inch pieces
      1 c  Finely shredded carrots
    1/2 c  Finely shredded beets
    1/4 c  Finely chopped celery
      2 ea Hot green chilies, quartered
    2/3 c  Cooked chick peas
      3 tb Almonds
      3 tb Walnuts
      3 tb Sunflower seeds
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Garam masala
    3/4 c  Soy milk
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Whole wheat flour
    2/3 c  White poppy seeds
           Ghee for shallow frying
 
  Place the cauliflower, potatoes, fresh peas & green beans in the
  bottom of a pot & cover with water.  Put the carrots, beets & celery
  in a steaming basket, cover & place over the pot.  Cook until the
  vegetables are tender-crisp.  Drian, saving the water.  Add the
  frozen peas, defrosted first, to the steamed vegetables.
  
  In a blender, while it is running, drop in the chilies.  Add the chick
  peas, nuts & seeds & process until the peas are mashed.  Some
  vegetable water may facilitate this.  Add the cauliflower, potatoes,
  fresh peas, if using, & beans.  Pulse on & off till they are coarsely
  mashed.  Transfer to a mixing bowl, add the steamed vegetables, salt,
  pepper, turmeric & garam masala.  Mix well.  Divide into portions.
  
  Line a baking sheet with waxed paper.  Flatten a portion into an
  almond shaped cutlet, 1/2 inch thick & place on the sheet.  Cover &
  refrigerate for 30 minutes.
  
  Whisk the soy milk, cornstarch & flour in a flat bowl until smooth.
  Dip each cutlet into the batter, roll in poppy seeds & set aside
  briefly to air dry.
  
  Heat ghee to a depth of 3/4 inch.  Without crowding, fry the cutlets
  in batches for 2 minutes each side.  Drain & serve.
  
  Adapted from Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mjaddra (Lentils with Rice)
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Misc/food
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Lentils
    3/4 c  Uncooked rice
      2 md Onions; chopped
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Salt
    1/4 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Allspice or bhar
 
  Clean and wash the lentils and boil them until tender.  Mash and
  strain into a separate pot.  Add the rice, salt, and spices, and mix
  well.  In a pan, saute the chopped onions in oil until golden.  Add
  them with the frying oil to the lentils and rice.  Bring the mixture
  to the boil with enough water to cover and simmer over low heat for
  about 10 minutes, until the rice is cooked, stirring regularly to
  prevent sticking.  Serve lukewarm or cold with radishes and spring
  onions or a cabbage salad.
  
  That's the recipe straight from the book.  I make a couple changes:
  first of all, I'm a bit liberal with the cumin and allspice - I don't
  use measuring spoons, and I'm sure I get more than the 1/4 or 1/2
  teaspoon. Bhar, btw, is described by the book as "a spice blend made
  of cloves, cinnamon and nutmeg.  It is very similar in flavor to
  allspice, which may be substituted for it."  I use brown basmati
  rice, so I have to boil it for more than 10 minutes; this means I
  have to keep adding water to it so it doesn't dry out.
  
  I mean to go back to the restaurant I first had this dish at and ask
  them what spices they use, since theirs is both spicier and darker
  than mine.
  
  Food For The Vegetarian - Traditional Lebanese Recipes From:
  bobp@msi.com (Bob Pitha)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mjeddrah
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Lentils, washed
      4 c  Water
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 lg Onions, coarsely chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Brown rice
 
  Bring lentils & water to a boil.  Reduce heat, cover & simmer for 25
  minutes.  Heat 2 tb oil in a skillet & saute onions & salt till the
  onions are transulcent.  Heat remaining oil in another skillet &
  saute the rice for 3 minutes.  Combine lentils, rice & onion, cover
  tightly & simmer till the lentils & rice are render, about 1 hour.
  You may have to add up to 2 extra cups water.  Stir occasionally.
  
  Serve with a green salad.
  
  Frances Moore Lappe, "Diet for a Small Planet"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mocha Marble Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Honey, or other sweetener
    1/2 c  Warm water
    1/4 c  Canola oil
      2 tb Tahini
      1 tb Coffee substitute
      1 lb Firm tofu, cut into chunks
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Chocolate glaze, see recipe
    1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
 
  Pre-heat oven to 350F.
  
  Blend the honey, water, oil, tahini.  Blend in coffee substitute.
  Add tofu chunks, one at a time.  Mix till creamy.
  
  Lightly oil 9" pie pan.  Sprinkle in cracker crumbs.  Pour in half
  the tofu mixture.  Drizzle chocolate glaze over it.  Cover with the
  rest of the tofu.  Gently insert a knife into the pie & pull up the
  chocolate, making swirling designs.
  
  Bake for 20 to 25 minutes.
  
  "Vegetarian Times", April 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mock Chopped Liver
 Categories: Spread, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Dried Lentils;
           - cooked until soft, drain.
      1 lb Green beans
           - boiled or steamed until
           - cooked, but not mushy
    1/4 c  Peanuts (or more)
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
      2 c  Diced onions; sauteed in oil
           - until very soft
           - and turning brown
      2    Garlic cloves (or more)
           - (saute with the onions)
    1/4 c  Unsweetened peanut butter
           - (like Laura Scudders)
           - optional
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Spike seasoning
           - (if you have it)
 
  Blend it all in the food processor until smooth.  I do everything
  separately, then mix it all together because my food processor is not
  big enough to do it all at once.
  
  Serve as a sandwich spread, or on crackers.
  
  This recipe makes *a lot*.  I think it freezes well, just stir well
  after it thaws, and make sure the lentils and green beans are well
  drained. Serve with crackers or make sandwiches with it.  This recipe
  makes quite a lot of spread.
  
  From: tracy@telesoft.com (Tracy E. Childs @tesla) @Newsgroups:
  rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mock Fish Buddhist
 Categories: Vegetarian, Asian, Chinese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Potato; cooked, peeled
           -and sliced 1/4 inch thick
      2 tb Flour
           Peanut oil; for frying
      1 sm Onion; sliced
    1/2 lb Snow peas
     10    Wood ears; soaked to soften,
           - tough ends removed,
           - cut in slivers
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/3 c  Water
 
      Sprinkle potatoes with flour and deep-fry until golden.
   Drain and set aside. Pour off all but 2 tablespoons of the oil,
  reheat an add onion. Stir-fry 10 seconds and add snow peas and wood
  ears. Stir-fry another 10 seconds and add salt, sugar and water.
  Bring to rapid boil, stirring constantly, and cook until peas are
  just tender crisp. Add reserved fried potato slices, heat through and
  serve.
  
      Wood ears are a type of mushroom or shelf fungus. When soaked it
  has a crunchy, gelatinous texture with little taste. If you can't
  find them, I imagine that you could use the dried mushrooms although
  they wouldn't give exactly the same effect. A closer substitute would
  be dried jellyfish, but if you're some- where that sells dried
  jellyfish, I'm sure that they have wood ears as well...
  
      From "The Regional Cooking of China" by Margaret Gin and Alfred E.
  Castle. 101 Productions, San Francisco, 1975. From: Stephen Ceideburg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mock Whipped Cream
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh tofu
      3 tb Natural syrup
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract or flavoring
           -of choice
      3 tb Almond buter or sesame
           -tahini
           Soymilk (add as needed)
 
  Bill tofu in water for 10 minutes. Drain the tofu and let it cool.
  Blend the tofu and the rest of the ingredients into a blender or food
  processor until smooth. If the "whipped cream" is too thick, add
  soymlk sparingly.
   Chill at least 1 hour before serving. Makes 1 cup.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:51 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Momo Sauce
 Categories: Asian, Appetizer, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 18 servings
 
      2 tb Ghee
      1 ts Minced ginger
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Diced onion
    1/2 ts Garam masala
    1/8 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 c  Diced tomatoes
      1 c  Water
    1/2 ts White vinegar
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Green onions, chopped
      2 ea Sprigs cilantro, chopped
 
  Heat ghee in a pot.  Add ginger, garlic & onion & stir-fry 1 minute.
  Add garam masala, turmeric & chili powder.  Stir-fry for 30 seconds.
  Add tomatoes & stir-fry for 3 minutes.  Add water.  Bring to a boil,
  reduce heat & simmer 5 minutes.  Add vinegar, soy sauce, salt &
  pepper.  Mix well. Garnish with green onions & cilantro.  Serve hot.
  
  Adapted from Betty Jung, "The Kopan Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Momo Wrapprs
 Categories: Asian, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 18 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
      1 pn Salt
    3/4 c  Water
 
  Pour flour in a mound on the counter.  Make a whole in the centre.
  Sprinkle in salt & baking powder.  Add 1/2 the water & with your
  hand, mix the water & the flour.  Add the rest of the water &
  continue to work until the dough is smooth.  Knead well for 5
  minutes.  Cover & set aside for 30 minutes.
  
  Knead dough on well floured surface.  Roll into a long sausage shape
  about 1" in diameter.  Cut into pieces 1" wide.  Dust with flour &
  flatten each piece into a round.  Roll each round with your hands
  until you have a perfect circle of 3" to 3 1/2" & the thickness of a
  coin.  Fill with the filling of your choice.
  
  Betty Jung, "The Kopan Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moo Shu Vegetables with Chinese Pancakes
 Categories: Vegetarian, Vegetable
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 ts Roasted sesame seed oil
      2    Green onions; thinly sliced
      2 c  Bok choy, thinly sliced
    1/2    Red bell pepper
           -- thinly sliced
      1    Carrot; thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Mushrooms, thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Mung bean sprouts
      4 oz Reduced-fat tofu; crumbled
      2 ts Fresh ginger, peeled, grated
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1 tb Tamari or soy sauce
           Hoisin sauce
      6    Frozen Chinese pancakes
           -OR- whole wheat crepes
           -- (thawed)
 
  Preheat the oven to 325 F.  Wrap pancakes in foil and place in oven to
  warm, about 8 minutes.
  
  Heat sesame oil in a wok or large skillet until very hot.  Add green
  onions, bok choy, red bell pepper, carrots and mushrooms.  Stir-fry
  vegetables 3 to 4 minutes until crisp tender.  Add sprouts, tofu,
  ginger and garlic and continue cooking 2 to 3 minutes until sprouts
  are soft. Stir in tamari and extra hoisin sauce.  To eat, drizzle a
  spoonful of hoisin sauce across center of pancake.  Top with generous
  helping of vegetables and roll up burrito style.
  
  Per Serving: Calories: 345 Grams of Fat: 10.5 % Fat calories: 27
  Cholesterol: 0 mg               Grams of Fiber 7
  
  Source: Delicious!  July/August 1993 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: More Ginger Snaps
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Shortening
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Molasses
    1/4 c  Water
      2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Flour
 
  Beat shortening for 30 seconds.  Add sugar & beat till light &
  fluffy. Add molasses & water.  Mix well.  Add the baking soda,
  cinnamon, ginger & salt. Mix.  Finally fold in flour.  Mix well.
  Form into 1 inch balls. Place on a greased cookie sheet 2 inches
  apart.  Flatten slightly & bake at 375F for 8 to 10 minutes.  Cool on
  a wire rack.
  
  Makes 36.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moroccan Stew with Couscous
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------STEW---------------------------------
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
    3/4 ts Salt; divided
      1 ts Cinnamon, ground
    1/2 ts Ginger, ground
    1/2 ts Tumeric, ground
    1/4 ts Nutmeg, ground
    1/4 ts Red pepper, ground
      2 c  -Water
      3    Cloves, whole
      2 c  Sliced carrots
      2 c  Cubed butternut squash
      2 c  Chickpeas, cooked or canned
           -(drained and rinsed)
  1 1/2 c  Cubed sweet potato
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/3 c  Chopped dried apricots
      3 tb Brown sugar, packed

MMMMM--------------------------COUSCOUS-------------------------------
      1 c  Couscous
  1 3/4 c  -Water

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Chopped blanched almonds
 
  For the stew: In a 4-quart saucepan, heat the oil over medium-high
  heat. Add the onion and garlic, and cook, stirring, until softened.
  Add 1/2 tsp. of the salt and all of the cinnamon, ginger, tumeric,
  nutmeg, and red pepper, stirring until absorbed.  Add the water and
  cloves; bring to a boil.  Add the carrot, squash, chickpeas, sweet
  potato, raisins, apricots, and brown sugar, and return to a boil.
  Reduce the heat and simmer uncovered, stirring occasionally, 40 to 45
  minutes, or until the sweet potato is tender.
  
  For the couscous: During the last 5 minutes of cooking the stew,
  place the couscous in a medium-sized bowl.  Add the boiling water and
  remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt.  Let stand 5 minutes, then fluff with a
  fork.
  
  Serve the stew over the couscous and top with the chopped almonds.
  
  Source: Wholesome Harvest - by Carol Gelles (ISBN: 0-316-30735-1)
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moussaka with Rice
 Categories: Greek, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Rice
      1 lg Eggplant
           Salt
      2 lg Potatoes
     14 oz Can tomatoes
      4 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ea Onion, chopped
      1 pn Pepper
      1 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Ghee
      2 tb Flour
  2 1/2 c  Soya Milk
      1 pn Nutmeg
           Salt & pepper
      1 ts Allspice
 
  Wash rice & soak for 30 minutes.  Slice eggplant into rounds & soak in
  slightly salted water.  Peel & cut potatoes into rounds.  Put rice in
  a pan with the tomatoes, garlic, onion, salt & pepper.  Add 2 c water
  & allow to simmer gently until the water has been absorbed.
  
  Dry the eggplants & fry in the olive oil until they just begin to turn
  golden.  Put side.  Fry the potatoes in the same way.
  
  Make the white sauce.  In a pot, heat the ghee.  Gradually stir in the
  flour, then the soya milk.  Add a pinch of salt, pepper & nutmeg.
  Simmer gently for 1 minute.  Set aside.
  
  Grease a casserole dish.  Put in a layer of potatoes, followed by
  eggplant & finally the rice mixture.  Space out the allspice berries
  on the top. Add the sauce.  Bake at 375F for about 30 minutes.
  
  Adapted from Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Muffuletta Bread
 Categories: Bread, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Warm water (110F)
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Active dry yeast
      3 c  Bread flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Vegetable shortening
      1 ea Sesame seeds
 
  In a 2-cup measuring cup, combine water and sugar.  Stir in yeast.
  Let stand until foamy, 5 to 10 minutes.  In a food processor fitted
  with the steel blade, combine 3 cups flour, salt and shortening.  Add
  yeast mixture. Process until dough forms a ball, about 5 seconds.
  Stop machine; check consistency of dough.  It should be smooth and
  satiny.  If dough is too dry, add more warm water, 1 tablespoon at a
  time, processing just until blended.  If dough is too sticky, add
  more flour, 1 or 2 tablespoons at a time, processing just until
  blended.  Process 20 seconds to knead. Lightly oil a large bowl,
  swirling to coat bottom and sides. Place dough in oiled bowl; turn to
  coat all sides.  Cover bowl with plastic wrap. Let rise in a warm,
  draft-free place until doubled in bulk, about 1-1/2 hours. Lightly
  grease a baking sheet.  When dough has doubled in bulk, punch down
  dough; turn out onto a lightly floured surface.  Form dough into a
  round loaf about 10 inches in diameter; place on greased baking
  sheet. Sprinkle top of loaf with sesame seeds; press seeds gently
  into surface of loaf. Cover very loosely with plastic wrap; let rise
  until almost doubled in bulk, 1 hour. Place rack in centre of oven.
  Preheat oven to 425F. Remove plastic wrap. Bake loaf in centre of
  preheated oven 10 minutes. Reduce heat to 375F; bake 25 minutes.  The
  loaf is done when it sounds hollow when tapped on bottom. Cool
  completely on a rack before slicing. makes 1 loaf.
  
  Posted by Rich Harper in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mung Dal with Black Mustard Seeds
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Yellow split mung beans
    1/4 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Grated fresh ginger
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Lemon juice
      3 tb Ghee
    1/2 ts Black mustard seeds
      1 ea Green chilies, seeded &
           -- shredded OR
           -- 1/4 ts black pepper
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
 
  Wash mung beans.  Place with turmeric & ginger in a large pot.  Add 4
  cups water & bring to a boil, stirring often.  Reduce heat to medium
  & simmer, partially covered, for 30 minutes.  Turn off heat & beat
  with a wire whisk. When ready to serve, heat puree till piping hot.
  Stir in the lemon juice & salt.
  
  Heat ghee over a high heat in small frying pan.  When very hot,
  carefully add the mustard seeds & fry till they start to turn grey.
  When they stop sputtering, add the chili.  Stir rapidly for a monent
  & then turn off the heat.  Pour over the puree & fold in the chopped
  coriander.
  
  This dal is excellent with almost every vegetable.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom & Sweet Pepper Quiche
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      2 ts Olive oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 md Green pepper, chopped
  2 1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 lb Medium-firm tofu
      2 tb Nutritional yeast
      1 ts Salt
 
  Heat oil in a medium sized skillet & saute vegetables & garlic till
  limp. In a large bowl, crumble or mash tofu.  Add sauteed vegetables,
  yeast & salt.
  
  Pre-heat oven to 350F.  Spread tofu mixture evenly into a 9 1/2" or
  10" quiche pan.  Bake for 30 to 40 minutes, till the edges start to
  brown. Garnish with tomatoes.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" March, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom and Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Italian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      4 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      1 ea Handful fresh parsley,
           -- finely chopped
      1 ts Marjoram
      1 lb Sliced mushrooms
      2 c  Canned plum tomatoes
           Salt & pepper
 
  Heat olive oil in a large frying pan & cook the garlic, parsley &
  marjoram for 1 minute.  Add sliced mushrooms & cook over moderate
  heat for 5 minutes.  Add tomatoes, salt & pepper.  Cook over high
  heat for 8 to 10 minutes or until the sauce starts to thicken.
  
  Serve over 1lb pasta.
  
  Paolo Gavin, "Italian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom and Sweet Pepper Quiche
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Breakfast
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 ts Olive oil, (or
    1/4 c  White Grape Juice)
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 md Green pepper, chopped
  2 1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      2 lb Medium-firm tofu
      2 tb Nutritional yeast, optional
      1 ts Salt, optional
           Sliced tomatoes for garnish
 
  Heat oil or white grape juice in a medium-sized skillet. Saute
  vegetables and garlic until limp. In a large bowl, crumble or mash
  tofu. Add sauteed vegetables, and yeast and salt if desired.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees (325 if using glass pan). Spread tofu
  mixture evenly into a 9 or 10-inch quiche pan. Bake 30 to 40 minutes,
  until the edges of the tofu start to brown. Garnish with tomatoes.
  Serves 6-8.
  
  Variation: If you prefer quiche with a crust, use your favorite
  single pie crust recipe.
  
  From _Vegetarian Times_, March, 1992
  
  A.BROADDUS [Alice in Hou]    at 10:19 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Spread
 Categories: Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 ts -to
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Coarsely chopped leeks
           -(white part only)
      1 lg Garlic clove
           - peeled and finely chopped
    3/4 lb Mushrooms; wiped clean
           - and coarsely chopped
    1/2 ts Dried leaf oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb -to
      2 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
    1/4 ts Prepared horseradish; -OR-
    1/2 ts -Prepared mustard
 
  In a large skillet, heat the oil.  Saute the leeks and garlic for 2
  minutes, stirring frequently.
  
  Add the mushrooms, oregano, salt, and black pepper.  Reduce the heat
  slightly and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until the
  mushrooms are cooked and their liquid has evaporated, about 5 to 10
  minutes.
  
  Puree in a blender or food processor and stir in lemon juice and
  horseradish to taste.
  
  Variation: Before pureeing, this combination makes a fine filling for
  turnovers; if necessary, you can stretch the amount by blending in
  some mashed tofu and additional seasonings.
  
  Makes 1-1/4 cups
  
  Source: Recipes from an Ecological Kitchen - by Lorna J. Sass ISBN:
  0-688-10051-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Satay (Satay Het Hom)
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      8 oz Presoaked Chinese mushrooms

MMMMM------------------------THE MARINADE-----------------------------
      1 ts Finely chopped galangal
      1 ts Finely chopped lemon grass
      1 ts Kaffir lime leaf
           --(finely chopped)
      2    Coriander roots
      4 sm Garlic cloves
           -- coarsely chopped
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Powdered coriander seed
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Coconut milk

MMMMM----------------------THE PEANUT SAUCE---------------------------
      1 tb Oil
      1 tb Red curry paste
      1 c  Coconut milk
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Ground roast peanuts
 
  Taking each mushroom as a rough circle cut towards centre in a spiral
  to make one long strip as if peeling an apple in one go.  Set aside.
  
  THE MARINADE: In a mortar pound together the galangal, lemon grass,
  lime leaf, coriander roots and garlic to form a paste.  Place this in
  a mixing bowl and stir in all the other ingredients, mixing well.
  Place all the mushroom strips in this marinade and leave for at least
  30 minutes.
  
  PEANUT SAUCE: In a wok or frying pan/skillet, heat the oil, add the
  curry paste and fry briefly until it blends with the oil.  Add the
  coconut milk, lower the heat and stir well until a rich red colour
  appears.  Add the remaining ingredients, stirring constantly until a
  thick sauce is formed, and set aside.
  
  Take the mushroom strips from the marinade and thread each one on to a
  satay stick.  Grill/broil until cooked through.  Serve with the peanut
  sauce and fresh cucumber pickle.  Little triangles of toast may also
  be served for those who wish to mop up more sauce.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushrooms with Tarragon
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Mushrooms
      1 ea Clove garlic
      1 ts Oil
      1 tb Tarragon
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
           Salt to taste
 
  Saute mushrooms & garlic in oil till soft.  Stir in the remaining
  ingredients & serve.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushrooms & Tofu in Wine
 Categories: Mushroom, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Safflower oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 lg Onion, chopped
  1 1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
    1/2 md Green bell pepper, diced
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/4 c  Tamari
    1/2 ts Grated ginger
      2 ts Sesame oil
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      2 ea Cakes tofu, grated
           Crushed almonds
 
  Heat safflower in a wok.  When hot add garlic & onion & saute over
  moderately low heat till the onion is translucent.  Add mushrooms,
  bell pepper, wine, tamari, ginger & sesame oil.  Mix.  Reduce heat,
  cover & simmer till mushrooms are tender but not overdone.
  
  Dissolve cornstarch in a small amount of water & stir into skillet.
  Stir in tofu, cover & simmer for another 2 minutes.  Serve over
  noodles garnished with almonds.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushrooms with Wild Rice (Lf)
 Categories: Low-cal/fat, Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------RICE---------------------------------
      1 c  Wild rice
      3 c  Water
      1 tb Low-sodium soy sauce

MMMMM-------------------------MUSHROOMS------------------------------
      1 md Yellow onion; chopped
      2    Celery stalks; chopped
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 lb White button mushrooms
           -- sliced (about 2-1/2 cups)
      8    Fresh shitake mushrooms,
           -- chopped
    1/2 c  Oyster mushrooms, chopped
    1/4 c  Enoki mushrooms, trimmed
     12    Snow peas; quartered
    1/2    Red bell pepper; diced
      2 tb Low sodium soy sauce
    1/2 ts Dried sage
    1/4 ts Poultry seasoning
           Fresh ground pepper to taste

MMMMM------------------------PER SERVING-----------------------------
    152 x  *cals
      6 x  *gm protein
    1/8 x  *gm fat
     31 x  *gm carbo
    829 x  *mg sodium
      3 x  *gm fiber
 
  Rice:  place rice, water, soy sauce and scallions in a saucepan with a
  tight-fitting lid.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover and cook over
  medium heat until liquid has evaporated and rice is tender, about 1
  hour. Set aside. Mushrooms:  Place onion, celery and water in a large
  pan. Cook and stir for several minutes, until vegetables soften
  slightly. Add buttom, shittake and oyster mushrooms, cook, stirring
  occasionally, for 10 minutes. Gently stir in cooked rice, enoki
  mushrooms, snow peas, red pepper and seasonings.  Cook over low heat
  for another 15 minutes.
  
  A.ENGLISH [Al & Diane]       at 21:48 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: N.y.cima Roll
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Firm tofu
      1 tb Oil
      3 tb Arrowroot
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 tb Agar flakes
      1 ts Dried marjoram
      1 ts Dried thyme
      1 tb Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Black pepper
  2 1/2 c  Cima mix (see below)

MMMMM--------------------------CIMA MIX-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onions
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Whole wheat bread crumbs
    1/4 lb Ground seitan
    1/4 lb Fine soy grits
    1/4 lb Hand crushed frim tofu
    1/3 c  Nutritional yeast
      2 ts Dried marjoram
      2 ts Dried thyme
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped spinach, packed
    1/4 c  Chopped roasted red pepper
    1/2 c  Pistachios
      1 c  Green peas
      1 tb Agar flakes
    1/2 c  Gluten flour
      2 tb Liquid lecithin
 
  Rinse tofu and pat dry.  Cube and puree in food processor with all
  ingredients except cima mix.
  
  Shape the cima mix into a 12" by 3" roll.  Sread the tofu puree on a
  12" by 28" piece of plastic wrap and roll around the cima log.
  Smooth out the seam. Steam 30 minutes, let cool 10 minutes, slice and
  serve.
  
  Note:  you MUST have a steamer wide enough to support the entire roll
  from underneath!  If you don't, it will slip and come unrolled.
  It'll still get cooked, but rather than a pretty, colorful roll to
  slice you'll have a serious mess.  This shouldn't be a problem, but
  for a broke person cooking for nine @someone else's apartment, these
  harware problems have a nasty way of only becoming apparently an hour
  before mealtime. (sigh)
  
  CIMA MIX: (makes 4 1/2C  Bro Ron suggests using the extra for
  'meatballs' or something.  Far be it from me to argue w/my hero, but
  remember to use a big enough skillet.)
  
  Saute onions in oil until translucent.  Remove from heat.  Add bread
  crumbs, tofu, seitan, soy grits, nut yeast, water and seasoning. Mix
  until evenly dispersed. Add vegs and nuts.
  
  In a separate bowl, mix agar and gluten flour.  Heat lecithin and
  stir into veg mixture, then stir in flour/agar mixture.
  
  (from Friendly Foods, serves 4)
  
  From: mad4@ellis.uchicago.edu (Bill Maddex)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nam Prik Curry Noodles (Kanom Jin Nam Prik)
 Categories: Thai, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------THE NOODLES AND VEGETABLES----------------------
      8 oz White longxu noodles
      4 oz Long beans; finely chopped
      4 oz Morning glory
           - (water spinach)
           -- roughly chopped
  1 1/4 c  Bean sprouts

MMMMM-----------------------NAM PRIK SAUCE----------------------------
     10    Shallots
           -- finely sliced into rings
      5    Garlic cloves
           -- finely chopped
    1/2 c  Dried split moong beans
           -- soaked in water for 6 hrs
      2    Coriander roots
      1 tb Red curry paste
  1 1/4 c  Coconut milk
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Tamarind juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      1    Kaffir lime; cut in half
      1 c  -Water

MMMMM----------------------FRIED DRY CHILIS---------------------------
      2 lg Dried red chilis
           -- coarsley chopped
           Oil; (reserved from above)
 
  Heat 2 tbsp (30 ml) of the oil until a light haze forms, then fry
  half the shallots and half the garlic until crispy brown.  Drain and
  set aside, keeping the oil for the Fried Dry Chilis.
  
  Drain the moong beans, place in a mortar, pound well to form a paste
  and set aside.  In the mortar, pound together the coriander roots
  with the remaining shallots and garlic until a paste forms, then set
  aside. In a frying pan or wok heat the remaining unused oil, stir in
  the red curry paste and cook.  Add half the coconut milk, stirring
  well, add the paste of coriander root, shallot and garlic and
  thoroughly mix.  Add in the moong bean paste and stir well.  Add the
  soy sauce, sugar and tamarind juice, lemon juice and chili powder,
  stirring constantly.  Put the two halves of the kaffir lime into the
  mixture and continue to cook gently. Thin the remaining coconut milk
  with the water then stir in to the sauce and boil. Simmer for 1
  minute.  Quickly stir in the crispy shallot and garlic mix and
  immediately turn into a serving bowl.  Save the remaining oil for the
  side dish.
  
  FRIED DRY CHILIS: Re-heat the oil and quickly stir-fry the chilis.
  Turn into a small serving bowl.  Serves three.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Never Fail Wholewheat Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     13 c  Wholewheat Flour
    1/4 c  Molasses
      3 tb Salt
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Dry yeast
      2 ts Sugar
  3 1/2 c  Lukewarm water
 
  Mix together flour, molasses, salt & oil.  Proof yeast in 1 cup of
  lukewarm water.  Let sit for 10 minutes.  Add to flour mixture.  Mix
  in the rest of the water, a little at a time, until the dough is firm
  & not too sticky. Turn out onto lightly floured board & knead for 15
  minutes. Place in large, lightly oiled bowl, cover with damp cloth &
  let rise till doubled.
  
  Punch down dough.  Divide into 3 & knead each piece for 3 minutes.
  Shape into greased loaf tins, cover & let rise till doubled.  Bake at
  350F for 1 hour.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Potatoes with Peas & Coriander
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 sm New potatoes
    1/4 c  Ghee
      1 ts Cumin seeds
    1/2 ts Turmeric
  1 1/2 ts Fresh ginger, minced
      2 sm Red chilies, chopped
      1 c  Fresh coriander
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Garam masala
      1 tb Coriander seeds
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      6 tb Water
    1/2 c  Frozen/fresh peas
 
  Wash & dice the potatoes.
  
  Put ghee in a pot, heat gently.  When hot, add the potatoes & cumin
  seeds. Cook, stirring, for 2 minutes.  Add turmeric, ginger &
  peppers.  Cook, stirring, 3 minutes.
  
  Add the remaining ingredients excepting the peas.  Lower the heat,
  cover & simmer for 15 minutes.  Check the water level, adding more if
  necessary.
  
  Just prior to serving, add the peas.  Uncover, turn up the heat &
  cook til all the water has evaporated.
  
  Bruce Cost, "Ginger East to West"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: No Knead Italian Whole Wheat Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 c  Whole wheat flour
           Cornmeal
 
  In a bowl, dissolve yeast in water.  Add salt & oil.  Beat in flour,
  1 c at a time.  Use your fingers to ensure that the ingredients have
  been thoroughly mixed.
  
  Bang down the dough on a counter surface.  Shape into a small round
  bread & place in a 9" round pan sprinkled with cornmeal.  Allow to
  rise till doubled.  Preheat oven to 375F & bake for 35 to 45 minutes.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: No-Meat Burgers-In-A-Hurry
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu; mashed
      1 c  Quick rolled oats
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
      1    Onion (optional)
           -finely minced
      2 tb Onion powder
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Black pepper
           Vegetable oil; for frying
 
  Mix ingredients together. Knead for a few minutes.  Shape into six
  patties. Fry in lightly oiled cookie sheet at 325 F for 25 minutes.
  Serve on whole wheat bread or buns. Top with lettuce, tomato, alfalfa
  sprouts, grated carrot, onion, pickles, catsup or mustard.
  
  [This recipe came from the North American Vegetarian Society, PO Box
  72, Dolgeville, N.Y. 13329 USA.  They publish "Vegetarian Voice"
  quarterly.]
  
  From: tshapin@orion.oac.uci.edu (Ted Shapin)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nondairy Avocado "Sour Cream"
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Snack, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Ripe avocado; peeled, pitted
 10 1/2 oz Extra firm silken tofu
      2 tb Nutritional yeast
      2 ts Tamari sauce
    1/2    Lemon; juiced
      6 tb Water
      2 ts Chopped dill weed
      1 tb Chopped chives
      1 tb Chopped garlic chives
 
  In a blender combine all ingredients except dill, chives, and garlic
  chives, and process until smooth.  Stir in herbs and serve.
  
  "Great on top of potatoes or with raw vegetables, vegetable burritos,
  tacos, or scrambled tofu - anywhere you might use sour cream."
  
  Source: Liz Lugan - Clawson, Michigan The Herb Companion -
  February/March 1993 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodles with Vegetable and Curry Sauce (Gueyteow Pak)
 Categories: Thai, Vegetarian, Main dish, Curries
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 oz Fresh white sen yai noodles
    1/2 c  Beansprouts
      1 sm Bundle long beans
           -- chopped into 1" lengths
      1 md Broccoli stem
           -- sliced lengthwise
      1 c  Coconut milk
      1 tb Red curry paste
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Tamarind juice
      1 tb Roast peanuts, crushed
      1    Shallot; finely chopped

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
           Potato rounds
           -- extra-finely sliced
           -- deep-fried until golden
           -- brown and set aside
 
  This dish is a speciality of Narind nad Warochun at their restaurant
  The Lemon Grass, Sukhumvit Soi 24, Bangkok.
  
  In a large pan of boiling water, blanch the noodles and set aside.
  Blanch the beansprouts, long beans and broccoli stems, arrange on a
  serving dish and set aside.
  
  In a saucepan, gently heat the coconut milk, stirring in the red curry
  paste until thoroughly blended.  Add the remaining ingredients,
  stirring until mixed.  Turn into a serving bowl.
  
  Either serve all three elements separately or place the noodles on the
  serving dish with the vegetables, pour over the sauce and garnish
  with the crispy potato.
  
  Source: Thai Vegetarian Cooking by Vatcharin Bhumichitr Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nori Rolls
 Categories: Vegetarian, Low-cal/fat, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked brown rice
    1/2 c  Mung bean sprouts
    1/2 c  Grated carrot
    1/2 c  Cucumber, finely diced
    1/4 c  Daikon radish
      2 tb Fresh parsley
      1 tb Tamari
    1/2 tb Soy "mayonnaise"
      2 ts Lemon juice
      3    Freshly chopped umeboshi
           -plums
      1 ts Dill weed
      4    Sheets toasted nori
 
  Mix all but the nori sheets together.
  
  Let the mixture sit one or more hours to absorb the flavors.
  
  Set out the toasted nori sheets. Place 3/4 cup filling on each sheet
  of toasted nori. Roll tightly and cut into five slices.
  
  Per roll: 125 cal, 3 g prot, 2 g fat, 24 g carb, 0 chol
  
  From _Murrieta Hot Springs Vegetarian Cookbook_ by the Murrieta
  Foundation
  
  DEEANNE [EatMoVeggies]       at 19:14 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: North Indian Stuffed Eggplant
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Eggplants
      4 c  Potatoes, cubed
      8 oz Soya cheese,
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 c  Chopped onions
      2 ts Ground cumin seeds
      1 tb Ground coriander seeds
      1 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Hot red pepper
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      1 tb Minced ginger
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 md Carrots, diced
      1 lg Green bell pepper, diced
      1 c  Green peas
      1 ea Tomato, diced
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
           Seasme seeds
 
  Leaving stems on, slice eggplants in half lengthwise & place cut side
  down in pan.  Cover & bake at 375F for 30 to 40 minutes till tender.
  
  Whiule eggplant is baking, boil potatoes till tender & drain.  Mash
  with partially melted soya cheese in a large bowl.  Saute onions &
  dried spices in oil for 1 minute.  Add garlic, ginger & saute till
  onion is translucent. Add carrots & cook 5 minutes.  Add peppers &
  peas & cook till just tender. Stir in tomatoes & lemon juice.
  Combine sauteed vegetables & potato mixture.
  
  Mash eggplant pulp & push to side.  Mound a quarter of filling on each
  half.  Sprinkle with sesame seeds & bake for 15 minutes at 375F,
  uncovered.
  
  Adapted from "New Recipes From Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutritional Yeast "Cheese" Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Nutritional yeast flakes
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
      2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
 
  Mix dry ingredients in a saucepan; add water nd cook over medium heat,
  whisking, until it thickens and bubles. Cook 1 minute. Remove from
  heat and add margarine. A dash of red food coloring or a dash of
  saffron will give it a more traditional color.
  
   This is a great replacement for Cheez Whiz and other stretchy, melty
  cheese sauces.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutritional Yeast Parmesan
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Nutritional yeast flakes
    1/4 c  Sesame seeds
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Grind all ingredients in food processor or blender until completely
  milled. Store in glass jar in refrigerator for months. Use over
  spaghetti, sprinkled over salads, or in any recipe where you would
  use parmesan cheese.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutty Rice Pate
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM------------------FORMATTED BY S.GRABOWSKI-----------------------
    1/3 c  Raw brown rice
      2 tb Butter
      2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1 c  Grated zucchini
    1/2 c  Grated onion
      1 lg Chopped garlic clove
      1    Egg
  1 3/4 c  Finely ground walnuts,
           Peanuts, or cashews
    1/2 c  Finely chopped parsley
    1/4 c  Wheat germ
      1 ts Dried sage
      1 ts Dried basil
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
           Lettuce leaves
           Sour pickles
 
  1) Cook the brown rice according to package directions but eliminate
  the salt. 2) Melt the butter in a large skillet and saute the
  mushrooms, zucchini, onions, and garlic until tender but not browned.
  3) Put the saute vegetables in the container of an electric blender
  or food processor and whirl or process until smooth. Scrape into a
  bowl. 4) Add the cooked rice, eggs, nuts, parsley, wheat germ, sage,
  basil, thyme and pepper. Transfer into an oiled 9x5x3 inch loaf pan
  and bake in a 375F oven for 30 minutes. 5) Cool, remove from pan, and
  chill. Serve in 1/4" thick slices on lettuce leaves with sour
  pickles. From the New York Times New Natural Foods Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Okra in a Savoury Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Onion, thinly sliced
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Grated ginger
      1 ts Chopped fresh green chilies
    1/4 ts Turmeric
      2 tb Ground almond
      1 ea Tomato, chopped
     10 ea Okra, cut into 3/4" disks
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Saute onion in oil, stirring constantly until reddish brown, 10 to 12
  minutes. Stir in garlic, ginger, chili, turmeric & almond.  Add
  tomato & cook for a minute.  Add okra & mix well.  Simmer, covered,
  for 6 or 7 minutes.  Stir in salt.  Just before serving, sprinkle
  cilantro or parsley on top.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" October, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Okra with Tomatoes
 Categories: Chinese, Side dish, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Okra, trimmed & sliced
      1 lb Tomatoes, peeled, quartered
      1 sm Onion, sliced
      1 oz Margarine
      2 tb Oil
      4 ea Green cardamoms
           Salt & pepper
      1 ts Garam masala
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
 
  Melt margarine & oil in a wok & add the cardamoms.  Fry for a few
  seconds then add the onion & salt & pepper to taste.  Cook till soft,
  but do not brown.  Add the okra & tomatoes & cook for a few more
  minutes, stirring frequently.  Be careful not to overcook.  As soon
  as the vegetables are cooked, sprinkle on the garam masala & chopped
  coriander & serve immediately.
  
  Bridget Jones, "Wok Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Okra with Onions
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 md Onions, coarsely chopped
      5 ea Garlic cloves, coarsely ch.
      1 ea Piece of ginger, 2" long
      6 tb Ghee
      1 ts Whole cumin seeds
      2 ts Whole fennel seeds
      1 ts Ground turmeric
      1 ts Ground coriander
      3 tb Tomato sauce
      1 lb Fresh young okra
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Garam masala
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Put onion, garlic, ginger & 1/4 cup water into blender & blend till
  smooth.
  
  Heat oil in skillet over medium heat.  Add cumin & fennel.  After 20
  seconds or so, add the paste from the blender & the turmeric.
  
  Cook for 20 minutes, stirring frequently.  Add the coriander & fry
  stirring for a minute.  Add tomato sauce & cook stirring for 1
  minute. Turn off heat.
  
  Wash okra & wipe with paper towel.  Slice a few pods at a time into
  1/4" rounds.
  
  Turn the heat to medium again under the skillet.  Add the okra, salt,
  garam masala, lemon juice & 6 tb hot water.  When the onion paste is
  bubbling, cover, reduce heat to very low & cook for 35 minutes.  Stir
  every ten minutes or so.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Okra with Tomatoes and Onions
 Categories: Asian, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Fresh young okra
    3/4 lb Onion; sliced thickly
      6 tb Olive oil
      3    Garlic cloves; halved
      1 lb Tomatoes; skinned & sliced
           Salt and black pepper
      1    Lemon (juice only)
 
  Wash okra. Cut off any hard stems and dry okra thoroughly. Heat oil in
  large saucepan and fry onions with the halved garlic cloves until
  slightly soft, transparent, and golden. Add okra and continue to fry
  until slightly softened. Add the sliced tomatoes and saute for a few
  min. longer. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Cover with water,
  bring to a boil and simmer until the okra is very tender, usually
  about 1 hour. Squeeze in the lemon juice and cook for a further 15
  min. (If using canned okra, cooking time will be much shorter. Serve
  hot or cold. If to be served cold, allow to cool in the saucepan
  before turning out into a serving dish. Recipe from "A Book of Middle
  Eastern Food" by Claudia Roden. Alfred A. Knopf, 1972. Posted by
  DEBORAH AKYUREK, Prodigy ID# DNJS60B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Olive Salad
 Categories: Misc/food, Salad, Appetizer
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Black olives
      1 c  Green olives
      1    Lemon; juice of
      2 tb Parsley; chopped
      1 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Chili powder
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
    1/2 ts Cumin, ground
      2 tb Oil
 
  "This salad is one of the many Middle Eastern appetizers or mezzes,
  dishes providing an array of textures, colours and flavours. They can
  be eaten as side dishes or as appetizers."
  
    In a bowl, mix the oil with the cumin, chili powder, paprika,
  garlic and lemon juice. Then pour over the dressing over the olives
  in the bowl and stir around so that they are well coated.
    Put in the salad in the fridge to chill before serving.
  
  Troth Wells, "The New Internationalist Food Book"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Olive-Tahini Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Unbleached white flour
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Liquid from canned black
           -- olives
    1/3 c  Tahini
      1 c  Finely chopped black olives
           Juice of 1 lemon
    1/4 ts Thyme
           Black pepper
 
  Dissolve flour with just enough water to make a smooth, flowing
  paste. Set aside.  Heat water & olive liquid till just under boiling
  point. Whisk in tahini, a littel at a time, then the flour paste.
  Simmer overl ow heat til the sauce is thick.  Stir in the remaining
  ingredients & serve immediately.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion "Caviar"
 Categories: Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped sweet onions
      1 c  Black-eyed peas, cooked
    1/4 c  Pimento, diced
      1 c  Green bell pepper, diced
    1/2 c  Green onion, chopped
      2 tb Fresh garlic, chopped
    1/4 c  Italian dressing
           Salt & pepper
 
  Combine all the ingredients & let marinate overnight.  Serve either
  as an appetizer or as a side dish.
  
  "The Hamilton Spectator", May 26, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Grated onion
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water
  2 1/2 c  Unbleached white flour
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
 
  In a bowl, mix onion & salt.  Add yeast dissolved in the warm water.
  Stir in flour & oil.  Beat well.
  
  Spoon the dough into an oiled loaf tin & let the dough rise to the
  top of the tin.  Preheat oven to 350F & bake for 1 hour.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Focaccia
 Categories: Bread, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water
      4 c  Wholewheat flour
      6 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Salt
      1 lb Bermuda onions, thinly
           -- sliced
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Cornmeal
 
  Stir yeast into warm water in a large mixing bowl.  Let stand for 10
  minutes.  Stir in 2 c flour & beat till mixture is sticky.  Sprinkle
  some of the remaining flour on a board & knead in the remaining flour
  until the dough is smooth & elastic.  Place in an oiled bowl, cover &
  let rise till doubled.
  
  Punch down, fold in 4 tb olive oil & the salt.  Knead again till
  smooth. Roll into a circle 10 to 12 inches in diameter.  Place on a
  well oiled 15 inch pizza pan dusted with cornmeal.  Let rise till
  doubled.
  
  Heat remaining olive oil in a frying pan & gently cook the onion for
  8 to 10 minutes.  Spread onions over risen dough & sprinkle with
  pepper.  Bake at 425F for 30 minutes.
  
  Paolo Gavin, "Italian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Salad
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chopped sweet onions
     16 oz Cooked red kidney beans
      1 c  Green bell pepper, diced
      1 c  Yellow bell pepper, diced
      1 tb Minced jalapeno
    1/2 c  White wine vinegar
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Minced coriander, fresh
      1 ts Chili powder
 
  Combine onions, kidney beans & the peppers in a large shallow dish.
  Toss & set aside.  Combine vinegar, cilantro & chili powder in a
  small bowl; stir well.  Pour over vegetables & toss to coat.  Cover &
  refrigerate for at least 8 hours, or overnight, stirring
  occasionally.  Toss before serving.
  
  "The Hamilton Spectator" May 26, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onions in Sweet and Sour Sauce
 Categories: Appetizer, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     16 sm White onions
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Margarine
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      1 ea Garlic clove, monced
      2 tb Dry white wine
      1 tb Honey
      1 ds Coriander
           Water
           White wine vinegar
 
  Arrange peeled onions in one layer in a fairly large pot where they
  fit snugly.  Add oil, margarine, chopped onion & garlic.  Pour wine
  over & blanch the onions.  Add honey & coriander.  Barely cover with
  a mixture of water & vinegar (half & half).  Cover tightly & simmer
  till the liquid is considerably reduced & onions are cooked.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Chocolate Mousse
 Categories: Dessert, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Brown rice syrup
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Firm tofu, cut into chunks
    1/4 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
    1/2 ts Grated orange zest
           Water as needed
 
  Place rice syrup & vanilla in a food processor.  Process, adding the
  tofu a few chunks at a time. Then add cocoa & orange zest.  Add water
  to thin as needed.
  
  Pour into serving dishes & chill.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" November, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oranges Filled with Raisins, Chickpeas, and Rice
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------ORANGE-TAHINI SAUCE-------------------------
    1/4 c  Tahini
    3/4 c  Plain yogurt or soft tofu
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      2 ts Ground cumin
      2 ts Paprika
      2 tb Minced fresh cilantro (opt.)

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 tb Unsalted butter
           -OR- avocado oil
      1 md Red onion; chopped
      1 c  Brown and wild rice blend
           -- (uncooked)
           -OR 1/3 brown & 2/3 wildrice
      2 c  Vegetable broth or water
      1 c  Chickpeas; cooked, drained
    1/4 c  Raisins

MMMMM--------------------------ORANGES-------------------------------
      2    Jumbo navel oranges
           -- halved crosswise

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1 tb Sesame seeds
      1 tb Chopped scallion whites
      4    Cilantro leaves (optional)
 
  FOR THE ORANGE-TAHINI SAUCE:  In a blender or food processor, combine
  all ingredients.  Refrigerate until ready to use.
  
  FOR THE FILLING:  Melt the butter or heat the oil in a medium
  saucepan. Saute the onion until soft, about 10 minutes.  Add the rice
  and stir to coat with the butter.  Add the broth, bring to a boil,
  cover, and simmer over low heat until rice is tender and liquid is
  absorbed, about 45 minutes.  Let cool to room temperature.
  
  In a large bowl, toss together the cooked rice, Orange-Tahini Sauce,
  chickpeas, and raisins.
  
  Prepare the oranges for stuffing by slicing off the rounded ends so
  that each half stands squarely on a plate.  Using a paring knife,
  carve out the fruit, cut it into bite-size sections, and toss it into
  the rice mixture. Once the fruit has been removed, cut away as much
  of the white portion of the peel as possible, leaving the shell
  intact.
  
  Set the orange shells on a serving dish and fill them with the rice
  mixture.  Garnish each with a sprinkling of sesame seeds and scallions
  topped with a whole cilantro leaf.
  
  Source: Vegetarian Entertaining - by Diana Shaw Harmony Books - New
  York (0-517-57475-6) Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven Roasted Tempeh and Vegetables
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Tempeh, cubed
      3 tb Tamari
      2 tb Oil
    1/4 c  Tamari
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Nutritional yeast
    1/4 c  Tahini
      2 ts Basil
      1 ts Rosemary
      2 ts Marjoram
      1 ts Sage
    1/2 ts Black pepper
  2 1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Potatoes, cubed
      1 c  Carrots, cubed
    1/2 c  Celeriac, cubed
    3/4 c  Celery, chopped
    3/4 c  Onions, coarsely chopped
    3/4 c  Mushrooms, halved
    1/2 c  Frozen peas
 
  Preheat oven to 400F.  Toss tempeh cubes in 3 tb tamari & 1 tb olive
  oil. Bake on oiled cookie sheet for 12 minutes.  Remove from oven &
  reduce heat to 350F.
  
  Whisk 1 tb oil, 1/4 c tamari with flour, yeast & tahini to form a
  smooth paste.  Whisk in the herbs.  Simmer for 5 minutes.  Whisk in
  enough water to form a thin gravy.  Simmer for 10 minutes & remove
  from heat.
  
  In a 3-quart casserole or Duch oven with lid, combine raw vegetables,
  except mushrooms & peas, with gravy.  Stir.  Bake gently, covered,
  for 45 minutes.  Stir once or twice during cooking.  Add water if
  needed.  Add mushrooms & peas & cook, occasionally stirring, for
  another 15 minutes. Serve.
  
  "The Big Carrot Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven-Roasted Potatoes and Onions
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 lg Potatoes, quartered
      6 md Onions, quartered
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 tb Fresh basil, chopped
      1 ts Fresh marjoram, chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 375F.  Place potatoes & onions in shallow roasting
  pan. Combine oil & herbs & pour over the vegetables.  Toss & bake,
  uncovered for 1 hour, or till fork tender.  Turn occasionally to
  prevent sticking.
  
  "The Hamilton Spectator", May 26, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pacific Rim Brochettes
 Categories: Vegetarian, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Extra firm tofu, drained
      1 ea Stalk fresh lemon grass
    1/2 bn Fresh mint, chopped
      6 ea Garlic cloves
      1 ea Serrano pepper, seeded &
           -- minced
      2 tb Cilantro stems, chopped
      2 tb Fresh ginger, chopped
      3 ea Green onions, chopped
      1 ts Peanut butter, optional
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Coconut milk, optional
           Juice of 1 lime
    1/4 c  Liquid tamarind
      2 tb Soy sauce
           ------------Brochettes
      6 ea Green onions
      2 md Tomatoes, cut into eighths
      6 sm Jalapeno peppers, optional
    1/4 lb Snow peas
    1/4 lb Button mushrooms
           Cliantro leaves to garnish
 
  Gently pres tofu between kitchen towels to remove excess water.
  Slice into pieces 2" X 1" X 1/2".  Cut each chunk crosswise & set
  aside.  Slice & discard all but bottom 3" of lemon grass.  With a
  wooden mallet, pound the base to release the aromatic oils.  In a
  food processor, combine lemon grass with mint, ginger, garlic,
  pepper, cilantro & gren onions.  Process in short bursts for 30
  seconds.  Add remaining ingredients & process for 1 minute.  Transfer
  to glass container & add tofu pieces.  Cover & marinate for 4 to 6
  hours.
  
  BROCHETTE:  Prepare grill.  Trim green onions to 2" pieces.  Place
  vegetables & tofu on sqewers, alternating for colour.  (Group snow
  peas i threes so they don't cook too quickly).  Place skewers on hot
  grill & brush with remaining marinade.  Grill, turning once till
  vegetables are tender. Should take 5 minutes or so.  Garnish with
  cilantro & serve.
  
  PER SERVING: 258 Cal.; 18g Prot.; 9g Fat; 26g Carb.; 0 Chol.; 333mg
  Sod.; 5g Fiber.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pakora Batter
 Categories: Snack, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  Chick pea flour, sifted
      2 ts Ghee
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Cayenne
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Garam masala
      2 ts Coriander
      1 ts Salt
      9 tb Cold water, as needed
    1/3 ts Baking powder, optional
 
  Combine the flour, melted ghee, lemon juice, spices & salt in a bowl
  & mix together well.  Add 5 tb of cold water slowly, beating it until
  the mixture is smooth & free of lumps.  Slowly add another 3 tb water
  & continue to beat until well mixed.  Check the conssitency, it
  should resemble the consistency of heavy cream & easily coat a spoon.
  If it does not, add more water, till it does.
  
  Cover the batter & set aside for 10 to 15 minutes to let it settle.
  
  Beat again for a couple of minutes to lighten the batter. Stir in the
  baking powder at this point if you want a cake like crust.
  
  For pakoras, choose a selection of your favourite vegetables:
  
  Cauliflower florets Eggplant cut into 1/4-inch rounds Potatoes or
  yams cut into 1/8-inch rounds Bell peppers, sliced 1/4-inch thick
  Zucchini, cut on the diagonal, 1/4-inch thick Asparagus tips,
  blanched & dried
  
  Heat 3 inches of ghee in a wok or deep skillet till hot.  Dip your
  vegetables in the batter & one by one sloip them into the hot oil.
  Fry until the pakoras are golden brown on all sides.  Remove & drain
  on paper towels.  Serve immediately.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parsley & Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 ts Olive oil
      2 c  Chopped potatoes
      1 c  Sliced leeks, white only
      4 c  Stock
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      2 tb Chopped fresh chives
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
 
  In a large pot, combine all the ingredients except the salt, pepper,
  chives & parsley.  Cover the pot & bring to a boil.  Lower heat &
  simmer for 30 minutes.  Cool slightly, then puree.  Season with salt
  & pepper & garnish with chives & parsley.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" April, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Party Pate
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 28 servings
 
      1 c  Pinto beans, soaked
      3 c  Water
      1 ea Bay leaf
      5 ea Garlic cloves, peeled &
           -- mashed
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Marjoram
      1 ts Oregano
      1 c  TVP granules or flakes
      1 tb Ketchup
    7/8 c  Hot water
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 tb Olive oil
      3 lg Shiitake mushrooms soaked in
           -- 1 c hot water
      2 tb Mirin sauce
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Mace
 
  Combine beans, water, bay leaf & garlic in a large pot.  Bring to a
  boil & cook for 70 to 80 minutes till tender.  Remove bay leaf &
  drain beans. Stir in salt, marjoram & oregano.
  
  Combine TVP, hot water & ketchup.  Set aside.  Saute onion in olive
  oil till soft.
  
  When mushrooms have soaked for 15 minutes, remove & slice into 1 inch
  strips about 14 inch wide.  Set aside.
  
  Combine beans, onion & TVP mixture in a food processor along with
  mirin, soy sauce, pepper & mace.  Blend till smooth.  Fold in the
  mushroom strips. Pack mixture into a lightly oiled 1-quart mold.
  Cover with foil, place in a pan of hot water & bake at 350F for 1
  hour.
  
  Remove from oven.  Place a plate on top of pate & weight down till
  the pate becomes firm.  Let cool in the fridge.  Turn out onto a
  plate to serve.
  
  Serve as a spread on thin slices of melba toast or crackers.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" February, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta & Red Bean Salad
 Categories: Salad, Pasta, Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Rotini, or ziti
      2 c  Red kidney beans, cooked
      1 c  Diced zucchini
      1 sm Green bell pepper, diced
      1 md Tomato, chopped
    1/3 c  Chopped green olives
      1 c  Tofu mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Sage
           Salt & pepper
 
  Cook pasta till al dente.  Rinse & drain.  Put in large bowl & add
  rest of the ingredients.  Mix thoroughly & serve at room temperature.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Salad with Artichoke Hearts & Sprouts
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Elbow macaroni
    3/4 lb Marinated artichoke hearts
    3/4 c  Alfalfa sprouts
      1 sm Green bell pepper, chopped
      1 md Carrot, coarsely grated
    1/2 c  Sliced black olives
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Savoury
           Salt & pepper
 
  Cook pasta till al dente.  Rinse with cool water.  Drain & put in
  mixing bowl.  Chop artichokes into bite-sized pieces.  Add to pasta.
  Add sprouts & then the rest of the ingredients.  Mix well & allow to
  stand for 2 hours at room temperature or in the fridge.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Cherry Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Pasta, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 oz Vegetable spiral pasta
           Water for boiling
      2 ts Balsamic vinegar
  1 1/4 c  Thinly sliced onions
      1 tb Garlic, minced
      2 tb Tomato paste
  1 1/2 c  Halved cherry tomatoes
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Miso
      3 tb Balsamic vinegar
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Cook pasta in a large pot of boiling water for 8 to 10 minutes.
  Drain & rinse with cold water.  Set aside.
  
  While pasta is cooking, heat 2 ts balsamic vinegar & 2 ts water in a
  large skillet & saute onions & garlic over medium heat.  Stir
  frequently.  Add tomato paste, dissolved in 1 cup water.  Stir gently
  & add tomatoes. Cook, stirring occasionally till vegetable are very
  soft.
  
  Dissolve cornstarch in 2 tb cold water & pour into blender.  Add miso
  & cooked vegetables.  Puree till smooth.  Return puree to skillet.
  Add 3 tb balsamic vinegar & parsley & heat through.  Toss pasta with
  sauce & serve hot.
  
  Mollie Katzen, "Moosewood Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Szechwan Peanut Dressing
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Pasta, preferably linguine
      2 c  Broccoli florets
      2 c  Cherry tomatoes

MMMMM------------------SZECHWAN PEANUT DRESSING-----------------------
    1/3 c  Peanut butter
           -Smooth or Chunky
    1/2 c  Hot vegetable stock or hot
           Water
      1 ts Soy sauce
      2 tb Rice vinegar
      2 tb Safflower oil
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
    1/2 ts Dry crushed red pepper; -OR-
      1 ts -Spicy flavoring of your
           -Choice
 
  Bring a large pot of hot water to a boi; cook pasta until _al dente_.
  While pasta is cooking, steam broccoli florets. In a medium-size
  mixing bowl, whisk together peanut butter and stock or water until
  smooth. Stir in remaining dressing ingredients. When pasta is done,
  drain well. Pour sauce over pasta, toss to coat well. Add broccoli
  and tomatoes; toss again. Garnish with chopped scallions, if desired.
  Szechwan Peanut Dressing is also good on steamed vegetables,
  especially green beans, broccoli or cauliflower.
  
  Paulette Mitchell "The 15-Minute Vegetarian Gourmet"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Black Olives
 Categories: Vegetarian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Rigatoni
      2 tb Olive oil
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Black olives, pitted
           - roughly chopped

MMMMM---------------------SWEET PEPPER SAUCE--------------------------
      2 lg Red peppers
      4    Garlic cloves; peeled
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Cook the rigatoni in a large saucepan until al dente.  Drain
  immediately and return the rigatoni to the still-warm pan with the
  olive oil; season the pasta to taste with salt and black pepper.
  
  While the pasta is cooking, make the Sweet Pepper Sauce.
  
  Serve the pasta on warmed plates, pour the sauce on top and sprinkle
  with the chopped olives.
  
  SWEET PEPPER SAUCE:  Put the peppers into a saucepan with enough
  water to almost cover.  Bring to a boil, then simmer until tender.
  Remove the peppers from the water, reserve the water and discard the
  stems and seeds. Chop and place in a blender or food processor.
  
  Add the garlic to the peppers, together with 1 1/4 cups of the cooking
  water, and blend to a puree.
  
  Transfer to a clean saucepan.  Season with salt and pepper and reheat
  gently.
  
  Rose Elliot, "The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta with Shell Beans and Greens
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Cranberry beans (in pods)
           -=OR=-
      1 c  -Cooked, Dried Beans
      1    Bay leaf
      6    Sage leaves; -=OR=-
    1/2 ts -Dried Sage
      5 tb Fruity olive oil
      4    Garlic cloves
      1 md Carrot; finely diced
           Salt
      2 lb Greens; such as
           -Mustard, Kale, Turnip
           - or a mixture
      1 md Red onion; finely diced
      3 pn Red pepper flakes
     12 oz Penne, ziti or shell pasta
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  SHELL THE BEANS then put them in a pan with water to cover; add the
  bay leaf, half the sage and 1 tablespoon of the olive oil. Slice 1 of
  the garlic cloves and add it to the pan along with the carrot. Salt
  lightly and simmer until the beans are tender, about 30 minutes. Add
  more water, if needed. When beans are tender, set them aside in the
  liquid. Remove tough stems of the greens; roughly chop leaves. Heat 2
  tablespoons of the oil in a skillet and gently wilt the onion. Chop
  the remaining garlic and sage leaves and add them to the onion, along
  with the red pepper flakes. Cook for a few minutes, then add the
  greens. Add 1/2 cup or so of cooking water from the beans and salt to
  taste; cook until greens are tender, about 15 minutes. When greens
  are done, add beans and enough liquid to make a little sauce. Cook
  the pasta in a large pot of boiling, salted water. When it is done,
  scoop it out and add it directly to the greens and beans. Toss them
  together, then turn into a heated serving dish. Drizzle the remaining
  olive oil over the top, season with plenty of pepper and freshly
  grated cheese.
  
  Deborah Madison - "Prodigy Guest Chefs Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanut Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 tb Butter or vegan margarine
      1    Onion; peeled and chopped
      1    Celery stalk; finely chopped
      1 ts Dried herbes de Provence
      1 tb Whole-wheat flour
    1/2 c  Light Vegetable Stock
           -(generous measure)
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Yeast extract
      1 c  Roasted, unsalted peanuts
           -(generous measure)
           -fairly finely ground
    1/2 c  Cashew nuts (scant)
           -fairly finely ground
    2/3 c  Fresh breadcrumbs
           -(whole-wheat)
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Dried breadcrumbs
           -(for coating)
           Oil; for shallow frying

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
           Lettuce leaves
           Tomato slices
           Cucumber slices
 
  Melt the butter or vegan margarine in a large saucepan and saute the
  onion and celery for 10 minutes.  Stir in the herbs and flour and
  cook for a further 1-2 minutes.
  
  Add the stock and stir until thickened, then add the soy sauce, yeast
  extract, nuts, breadcrumbs and salt and pepper.
  
  Leave the mixture to cool, then form into 6 flat burgers about 1/2"
  thick, and coat with dried breadcrumbs.
  
  Saute the burgers in a very little oil - the frying pan should be
  "greased" rather than oily - for about 3 minutes on each side, until
  browned and crisp.  Drain on paper towels.  Garnish and serve.
  
  VARIATION: MACADAMIA NUT BURGERS Using macadamia nut of the peanuts
  makes these burgers special.  Serve with Bernaise Sauce.
  
  Source: The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine - by Rose Elliot ISBN:
  0-394-57123-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Noodles
 Categories: Pasta, Salad
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Pasta; linguine (1 package)
      3 ts Peanut butter
    1/2 ts -Salt
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame oil (can substitute o
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Vinegar; white wine
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Onion; grated or minced
 
    Cook linguine according to package instructions in boiling water;
  drain. In large bowl, mix all the remaining ingredients together. Add
  linguine to sauce and toss to coat well. Refrigerate. good to pack
  for kid's lunches
  
  "The Pennywhistle Lunch Book"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne From Heaven
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------FORMATTED BY S.GRABOWSKI-----------------------
     12 oz Penne or ziti
      2 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onion
      3    Minced cloves garlic
      3 c  Chopped plum tomatoes
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2 c  Broccoli florets
      2 c  Chopped zucchini
      1 c  Sugar snaps (remove string)
           ->OR<-
           Snow peas
    1/2 c  Jullien carrots
      2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesean
 
  Cook the pasta according to directions on the package; drain. While
  the pasta is cooking, heat the oil over medium-high heat in a 3-quart
  saucepan. Add the onion and garlic, and cook, stirring, until
  softened. Add the tomato, water,salt and sugar.Cook, stirring often,
  for 10 minutes. Add the broccoli, zucchini, sugar snaps, carrot and
  parsley. Cook, stirring until the vegetables are tender-crisp. Stir
  in the Parmesean. Serve over the pasta.
  
  Calories: 481 Protein: 17.2 grams Carbohydrate: 81.9 grams Fiber: 8.7
  grams Total fat: 10.0 grams Saturated fat: 2.1 grams Cholesterol: 3.9
  mg Sodium: 395 mg
  
  From the Wholesome Harvest Cookbook, Carole Gelles, p.131
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepper-And-Tomato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 sm Ancho chiles; -=OR=-
      1 ts Ground red chile (or more)
      3 tb Olive or sunflower seed oil
      2 md Red onions; thinly sliced
      2    Bay leaves
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
      5    Parsley sprigs; chopped
      4    Garlic cloves
           - peeled & coarsely chopped
           Salt
      1 lb Red peppers or pimientos
           - thinly sliced
    1/2 lb Chopped savoy; -=OR=-
           -Smooth-Skinned Cabbage
      6 c  Water or stock
      1 lb Very ripe tomatoes; peeled,
           -seeded and chopped
           -(juice reserved)
           Creme fraiche
           Chopped cilantro
           - for garnish
 
  REMOVE STEMS, SEEDS AND VEINS from ancho chiles, if using. Tear flesh
  into few large pieces, cover with 1 cup water in small saucepan and
  bring to boil. Simmer 20 minutes, then puree in blender. Heat oil in
  pan and add onions, bay leaves, cloves, coriander, parsley and
  garlic. Cook over medium heat several minutes until onions have begun
  to soften, then add salt, peppers and cabbage. Stir to combine and
  coat vegetables with oil. Add 1/2 cup water or stock, cover pan and
  cook over low heat 10 minutes. When vegetables have wilted, stir in
  1/4 cup pureed chiles or 1 to 2 teaspoons chile powder. Add tomatoes,
  their juice and remaining water or stock. Bring to boil, then reduce
  heat, cover and simmer very slowly 30 minutes. When finished cooking,
  remove bay leaves and puree soup until completely blended. Return it
  to pan and season with salt, if needed. Add more chile if desired.
  Serve soup with swirl of creme fraiche and sprinkling of chopped
  cilantro.
  
  Deborah Madison, "Prodigy Guest Chefs Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Peach Slices
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Peaches
     15 oz White wine vinegar
      6 ea Dried red chilies
      1 ts Cloves
      1 ts Allspice berries
      1 ea 4 inch cinnamon stick
  1 1/2 lb Brown sugar
 
  Scald, stone & slice the peaches.  Put the vinegar into the pan with
  the remaining ingredients.  Stir over a low heat to dissolve the
  sugar.  Bring the vinegar to a boil.  Cover & simmer for 15 minutes.
  Put in the peaches & simmer uncovered for 2 minutes.  Lift out the
  peaches with a slotted spoon & place them in warmed pickling jars.
  Boil the vinegar for 10 minutes to thicken it.  Pour the vinegar over
  the peach slices.  Cover immediately & seal.  Let stand for 3 weeks
  before using.
  
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pine Nut Pilaf
 Categories: Main dish, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion, thinly sliced
      1 ea Garlic clove, chopped
      8 oz Brown rice
      2 ts Cumin
      1 ts Turmeric
     20 oz Stock
      2 oz Currants
      2 oz Pine nuts
 
  Heat oil in a pot over low heat.  Put in the onion & garlic & cook
  till softened.  Stir in the rice, cumin & turmeric. Stir fry for 1
  minute. Pour in the stock & bring to a boil.  Cover & simmer for 30
  minutes.  Add the currants, cover again & cook for 10 minutes
  further.  Remove the pan from the heat & stir in the pine nuts.
  Cover & let stand for 5 minutes before serving.
  
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Nut Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     14 oz Can crushed pineapple
  2 1/2 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 c  White sugar
 
  Mix above ingredients together & Bake at 325F for 30 to 40 minutes.
  Ice with nut icing.
  
  Posted by Karen Mintzias in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pinto Bean Cakes with Salsa
 Categories: Main dish, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Salad oil
      1 sm Onion; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Red bell pepper
           - (finely chopped)
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 md Fresh jalapeno chili
           - seeded & finely chopped
      2 cn Pinto beans (15 oz each)
           - drained & rinsed
    1/8 ts Liquid smoke
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Yellow cornmeal
           Cooking spray (optional)
      1 c  Tomato-based salsa
           - homemade or purchased
 
  In a 12- to 14-inch nonstick frying pan over medium heat, combine 1
  1/2 teaspoons of the oil with the onion, bell pepper, garlic and
  chili.  Stir often until onion is limp but not browned, about 5
  minutes.
  
  In a bowl, coarsely mash beans with a potato masher until they stick
  together.  Stir in onion mixture, liquid smoke, cilantro, cumin, and
  pepper, mixing well.
  
  Spread cornmeal on a sheet of waxed paper.  When bean mixture is cool
  to touch, divide into 8 equal portions, shaping each into a 1/2-inch
  thick cake.  Coat cakes with cornmeal.
  
  Return the frying pan to medium-high heat.  Add remaining 1
  tablespoon oil. When oil is hot, add cakes and brown lightly, 8 to 10
  minutes; turn cakes over once.  Coat pan with cooking oil spray if
  cakes start to stick. Serve cakes with salsa to add to taste.
  
  Per serving:  209 cal. (26 percent fat, 57 percent carbo., 17 percent
  protein); 9 g protein; 6 g fat (1 g sat.); 30 g carbo.; 615 mg
  sodium; 0 mg chol.
  
  Sunset magazine, date unknown Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piquant Lemon Rice
 Categories: Rice, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Basmati white rice
      2 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Ghee
    1/2 c  Raw cashew pieces
    1/2 tb Yellow split peas
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      3 tb Coarsely chopped coriander
    1/4 c  Shredded coconut
 
  Wash rice.  Bring water to a boil.  Stir in rice, salt & 1/2 tb ghee.
  Cover with a tight-fitting lid.  Reduce heat to very low & gently
  simmer, no peeking, for 20 to 25 minutes.  The rice should be light &
  fluffy & the water should be absorbed.
  
  Set side, leaving covered.
  
  Heat the remaining ghee in a small pot over a moderate heat till hot.
  Drop in the cashews & stir fry till golden brown.  Remove with a
  slotted spoon & pour over rice.  Cover the rice again.
  
  Raise the heat slightly & toss in the split peas & mustard seeds (you
  can omit the peas) & fry till the seeds turn grey & sputter.
  
  Pour the fried seeds into the rice & sprinkle with turmeric, lemon &
  coriander.  Gently fold till well mixed.
  
  Garnish each serving with coconut.
  
  For a variation, substitute lime juice for lemon juice.
  
  Yamuna Devi, The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pistachio-Stuffed Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 20 servings
 
     20 md Mushrooms
      3 tb Onions, minced
           Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Fine dried breadcrumbs
    1/4 c  Chopped pistachios
      2 tb Chopped parsley
    1/4 ts Dried marjoram
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Preheat broiler.  Remove stems from mushrooms and chop finely.
  Reserve caps.  Saute the stems and onion in 1/4 cup butter or
  margarine until tender.  Stir in the bread crumbs, pistachios,
  parsley, marjoram, and salt, mixing well.  Remove from heat.  Place
  the mushroom caps, stem-side up, on a baking sheet.  Fill the centers
  with the stuffing and sprinkle with about 3 tablespoons melted
  butter.  Broil about 6 inches from heat source for 5 minutes or until
  browned and heated through.
  
  Source: Best Recipes from The Los Angeles Times ISBN: 0-8109-1237-6
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pita Bread I
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 lb Wholewheat flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 tb Dry yeast
      2 ts Brown sugar
  1 1/4 pt Warm water
 
  Combine the flour & salt in a large bowl.  Mix yeast & sugar with a
  quarter of warm water.  Leave till it becomes frothy.  Pour into
  flour mixture. & gradually add enough water to make a soft but not
  sticky dough. Cover with a damp cloth & leave to stand for 10
  minutes.  Knead lightly on a floured surface.  Divide dough into 10
  equal portions, knead each one slightly. Roll each portion into an
  oval about 8" X 5".  Place on a lightly floured baking tray.  Brush
  tops lightly with oil & let rise for 1 hour.
  
  Bake in a 475F oven for 12 to 15 minutes.  As soon as they are
  removed from the oven, brush very lightly with a little water & cool
  on a wire rack.
  
  "Entertaining with Cranks"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pita Bread Ii
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 ts Dry yeast
      1 c  Lukewarm water
      1 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Wholewheat flour
 
  Dissolve yeast in water with sugar.  Let froth.  Add salt & flour, mix
  well.  Knead, adding more flour as necessary.  Let rise till doubled.
  Punch down.  Divide into 6 equal portions & let rise for 15 minutes.
  Preheat oven to 475F.  Roll each bread to 1/2-inch.  Place on
  ungreased cookie sheet & bake for 10 minutes.
  
  "The Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polenta
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil; or corn oil
      1 c  Peeled, finely diced carrots
      1 c  Finely diced onions
      1 c  Finely diced celery
      1 tb Minced garlic
      2 ts Sea salt
    1/2 ts Finely ground black pepper
      1 ts Chopped basil
      4 c  -Water
    1/2 c  Drained stewed tomatoes
      2 c  Yellow corn grits; -OR-
  2 1/4 c  -Cornmeal
      1 c  Cooked, drained kidney beans
 
  Heat the oil in a large saucepan.   Saute the carrots, onions,
  celery, and garlic, along with the salt, pepper, and basil, for about
  8 minutes.  Cut the stewed tomatoes into small pieces and add them to
  the vegetables, along with the 4 cups of water.  Bring to a simmer.
  Then add the corn grits and kidney beans and mix well.  Cook for
  about 20 minute, stirring occasionally to prevent burning.  (The
  polenta may take longer than 20 minutes to cook. Check by tasting.
  It should have a soft, gritty texture.)
  
  Lightly oil a 2-quart mold and press the polenta into it, working out
  any air pockets.  Smooth out the surface and allow it to cool to room
  temperature.  Refrigerate the mold until it is cold.  Then unmold the
  polenta onto a tray, garnish it, and serve it in slices.
  
  NOTE: If you are using cornmeal instead of corn grits, it is best to
  soak the cornmeal separately, in 2 cups of cold water; add the
  remaining 2 cups of water to the vegetables and then combine the two
  mixtures.
  
  VARIATION: Millet Polenta Use 2 cups of millet and 5 cups of water in
  place of the corn grits and the 4 cups of water.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M. Ten Speed
  Press, Berkeley, California ISBN: 0-89815-377-8 Typed for you by
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potage Puree De Pommes De Terre (Potato-Leek Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Chopped leeks (white part)
           -(or more, up to 4 cups)
      1 c  Peeled, diced celery
      4 c  Peeled & cubed potatoes
           - (or up to 5 cups potatoes)
      6 c  Water
      1 c  Cooked brown rice
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 ts Veggie bouillon
    1/2 ts Salt or to taste
      1    Splash wine vinegar
           -(optional)
 
    In a 4-qt. soup pot over medium heat, saute leeks, celery and
  potatoes in a little water for 5 to 7 min.  Add more water as needed
  to prevent sticking.  Add the 6 cups of water, salt & pepper. Bring
  to a boil, lower heat and simmer potatoes are very soft, about 15
  min. Add cooked rice and heat through.  Puree soup 2 to 3 cups at a
  time in a blender or food processor until very smooth. Return to soup
  pot and rewarm if needed.
  
  From: the January 1993 issue of Vegetarian Times
  
  FROM:    JANICE MESSALI   (SWSH14B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato and Pea Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Ghee
      1 tb Minced ginger root
      2 ea Green chilies, minced
    1/2 tb Whole cumin seeds
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
    1/4 ts Asafetida
      2 md Tomatoes, chopped
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes, cubed
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Coriander
  1 1/4 c  Water
  1 1/2 c  Fresh or frozen peas
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Fresh coriander, chopped
 
  Heat ghee till hot.  Add ginger, chilies, cumin seeds & black mustard
  seeds.  Fry for a few seconds & add asafetida.  A few seconds later
  add the tomatoes & fry for 3 minutes.
  
  Add the potatoes, turmeric, coriander & water.  Bring to a boil,
  reduce heat, cover & simmer for 15 minutes.
  
  Add the peas, salt & half the chopped coriander.  Continue to cook,
  partially covered, till the potatoes are soft.  Garnish with the rest
  of the coriander & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Momos
 Categories: Asian, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 18 servings
 
    1/4 c  Ghee
    1/2 tb Minced ginger
    1/2 tb Minced garlic
    1/4 c  Onion, diced
    1/2 ts Garam masala
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2 c  Mashed potatoes
    1/2 c  Fresh spinach, parboiled &
           -- chopped
    1/4 c  Cilantro, chopped
    1/4 c  Green onions, sliced
           Momo wrappers, see recipe
           Momo sauce, see recipe
 
  Melt ghee in a small skillet.  Add ginger, garlic & onion.  Stir fry
  for 1 minute.  Add garam masala, chili powder, salt, pepper & soy
  sauce.  Stir fry for 30 seconds.  Remove from heat & add mashed
  potatoes.  Add spinach when cool, green onion & cilantro.  Mix well.
  Put 1 tb of filling into each wrapper, seal the edges closed with a
  little water.  Steam over steaming rack & serve hot with sauce.
  
  Adapted from Betty Jung, "The Kopan Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Patties
 Categories: Snack, Appetizer, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes
      3 tb Yellow split peas
           Salt
      2 tb Oil
      5 ea Fenugreek seeds
      2 tb Chopped onions
      3 tb Parsley
      1 ea Fresh hot green chili
 
  Two hours before using, boil the potatoes in their jackets.  While
  they are boiling, boil split peas in 3 cups water with a sprinkling
  of salt for 15 minutes.  Remove from heat & drain very well, ensuring
  that you get rid of all the excess water. Set aside in a covered bowl.
  
  In a skillet, add the oil & heat over a medium flame until it is very
  hot. Add the fenugreek.  When they change colour, add onions & fry
  for 2 minutes, till the onion starts to brown.  Add parsley, green
  chili & stir another 2 minutes.  Next, put in the split peas, a
  little more salt if desired & cook, stirring for 5 minutes or until
  you are sure that all the water has evaporated.  The mixture should
  become one lump.  Cover & set aside.
  
  Peel & mash the potatoes with a fork or hand masher, do not use an
  electric beater otherwise your patties wil lnot hold together when
  cooked. A few lumps will remain, but get it as smooth as you can.
  Add somec salt & mix thoroughly.
  
  Divide the potatoes into 12 balls & do the same with the split pea
  mixture. Flatten each potato ball in you hand, put one portion of the
  split pea mixture in the centre.  Roll up into a ball again & flatten
  once more into a patty.  Repeat with the remaining ingredients.
  
  To cook the patties, you need very little oil & some patience so as
  not to lose the crust to the skillet when you turn them over.  Coat
  the bottom of the skillet with a small amount of oil.  Cook no more
  than two patties at any one time in each skillet.  Cook for 7
  minutes, gently turn over & cook for another 7 to 8 minutes.  The
  patties should be reddish brown on each side.  Keep the heat fairly
  low otherwise they will burn.
  
  Serve with chutney.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato-Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 md Onion, chopped
      3 md Potatoes, diced
      2 md Carrots, sliced
      1 lg Celery stalk, chopped
      2 ea Bay leaves
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 c  Frozen corn
     14 oz Can tomatoes, chopped
  1 1/2 ts Coriander
      1 ts Savoury
    1/2 ts Thyme
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 c  Water, stock
 
  Place onions, potatoes, carrots, celery, bay leaves & oil in large
  soup pot.  Add just enough stock to cover.  Bring to a boil & simmer
  over low heat for 10 minutes.
  
  Add the corn, tomatoes with hteir liquid & simmer for 10 minutes.
  Add the seasonings & simmer for another 10 minutes.
  
  Remove 3/4 cup of potatoes & mash well.  Return to the pot with the 1
  cup of stock.  Stir well.  Simmer for another 5 minutes, or until you
  are ready to serve it.
  
  Adapted from Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potatoes Au Gratin
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 lg Onions, sliced
      1 ea Celery stalk, sliced
      1 ea Carrot, diced
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 tb Tamari
  1 1/4 c  Cheesy gravy
     10 ea Potatoes, baked, peeled &
           -- sliced
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 tb Nutritional yeast
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Heat oil in a large skillet over medium heat.
  Add onions, celery, carrot & seasonings.  Cook for 7 minutes till
  vegetables are tender.
  
  In an 8 X 12 inch baking dish, alternate layers of gravy, potatoes &
  sauteed vegetables.  Repeat.  Top with the rest of the gravy.
  Sprinkle on paprika & nutritional yeast.  Bake for 20 minutes.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potatoes in a Thick Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, Indian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 md Potatoes, cubed & cooked
      1 sl Ginger
      1 tb Coriander
      1 ts Cumin
      6 tb Tomato sauce
      6 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Fennel
      1 ts Fenugreek
    1/2 ts Black mustard seeds
      3 ea Whole dried red chilies
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Garam masala
 
  Place ginger, coriander, cumin, tomato sauce & 3 tb water in a
  blender & blend till smooth.
  
  Break potatoes into bite sized pieces.
  
  Heat oil (I use ghee) in a large pot. When hot, throw in fennel,
  fenugreek & mustard seeds.  After 20 seconds, add red chilies.  As
  they darken, put in paste from blender.  Fry for 5 minutes, stirring
  frequently.  Put in the potato pieces & fry for 3 to 5 minutes.  Add
  1 1/2 c warm water. Bring to a boil.  Add salt & lemon juice.  Simmer
  for 20 minutes.
  
  Before serving, sprinkle with garam masala.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prassa Me Domata (Leeks Stewed with Tomatoes)
 Categories: Greek, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Bunches leeks
      1 c  Canned tomatoes or tom.juice
      1 c  Stock or broth
      1    Onion; chopped
      1    Celery stalk; chopped
      1 sm Bunch parsley; chopped
      1 pn Dried thyme or oregano
      3 tb Butter or oil
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Cut off the stem ends and green parts of leeks, then wash thoroughly
  and cut into 1-inch slices.  Soak in hot water for 5 to 10 minutes,
  then drain and discard the water.  In a non-aluminum pan, combine
  with the tomatoes or tomato juice, stock or broth, onion, celery,
  parsley, thyme or oregano, 3 tablespoons butter or oil, and salt and
  pepper.  Simmer until tender (approximately 20 minutes), adding the
  lemon juice during the last 5 minutes.  Serve warm or cold.
  
  From: "The Food of Greece" by Vilma Liacouras Chantiles, Avenel
  Books, New York. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pressed Bean Curd Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Chinese, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Pressed bean curd, slivered
           Cooking oil
      4 ea Green onions, sliced
      1 c  Green peas
      1 c  Chopped tomatoes
    1/2 c  Sweet corn
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 ts Brown sugar
      2 ts Salt
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 l  Stock or water
 
  Heat 4 tb cooking oil in a wok or pan & fry bean curd till golden.
  Remove & drain.  Fry green onion for 30 seconds, add the rest of the
  vegetables & fry for another 1 minute.  Add remaining ingredients
  except stock & mix well.  Transfer to a soup pot.  Add stock, gently
  stir & heat.  Serve hot.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pseftokeftedes Santorini
 Categories: Greek, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 36 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Peeled, chopped plum tomato
           -(See Note)
    1/2 c  Finely chopped scallions
      1    Garlic clove; finely chopped
      1 tb Freshly chopped parsley
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Fresh mint (heaping measure)
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Double-acting baking powder
           Olive oil; for frying
 
  In a large bowl, combine tomatoes, scallions, garlic, herbs, and
  spices. Add flour and baking powder and mix together so that all
  ingredients are well blended and have the consistency of a thick
  batter (about as thick as pancake batter).
  
  In a large heavy skillet, heat enough olive oil for frying.  Taking a
  heaping tablespoon at a time, drop batter into hot oil and fry until
  golden brown and crisp.
  
  Remove at once with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels.  Serve
  hot.
  
  Yield: about 3 dozen
  
  NOTE: In other islands, spinach or 'horta' (greens) are often used
  instead of tomatoes.  Follow instructions above, using 1-1/2 cups
  boiled, well-drained, chopped spinach, or any other greens.
  
                  Source: The Food and Wine of Greece - by Diane
  Kochilas
                  ISBN: 0-312-05088-7
                  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Garlic Bread
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Warm water
      4 lg Garlic cloves, pressed
  2 1/2 c  White flour
 
  In a bowl, mix yeast with water.  Add salt & garlic.  Beat in as much
  flour as you need until the dough forms a cohesive ball.
  
  Spoon the dough into a loaf pan.  Let rise till the dough reaches the
  top of the pan.
  
  Preheat oven to 350F & bake for 1 hour.
  
  Anne Lerner, "Breads You Wouldn't Believe"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quinoa Loaf
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Quinoa
      3 c  -Water
    1/2 ts Sea salt
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Finely diced celery
    1/2 c  Finely diced fennel
      1 c  Finely diced onions
      4 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Finely diced red bell pepper
      1 ts Sea salt
      2 tb Sesame seeds
  1 1/2 c  Cooked pinto beans
      4 tb Tahini
      4 tb Whole wheat flour
           -(stone-ground)
      4 tb Gluten flour
 
  Place the quinoa in a medium saucepan along with the water and 1/2
  teaspoon salt.  Bring to a simmer and cook, covered, until all the
  water has evaporated (about 15 minutes).  Set aside.
  
  Heat the oil in a medium saucepan.  Saute the celery, fennel, onions,
  garlic, and bell pepper, along with the salt, marjoram, and cardamom,
  for about 5 minutes.  Stir occasionally to prevent burning.  Add the
  cooked quinoa and the sesame seeds, pinto beans, and tahini to the
  sauteed vegetables.  Blend the ingredients.
  
  Mix the two flours together and blend into the vegetable and quinoa
  mixture. Line a large loaf pan with a baking sheet liner and lightly
  oil the liner.  (In lieu of the baking sheet liner, you could just
  oil and flour the pan.)  Press the mixture into the pan.  Bake at 400
  degrees F for about 45 minutes.  (The loaf should reach an internal
  temperature of 180-200 degrees F.)  Let the loaf cool, inverted, for
  10 minutes before removing it from the pan.  Serve the loaf in
  slices, with your favorite tomato (or other) sauce if desired.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M. ISBN:
  0-89815-377-8 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quinoa Tabouli
 Categories: Salad, Herbs/spice, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Quinoa
      3 md Ripe tomatoes
      1 c  Parsley
      1 c  Scallions
    1/3 c  Freshly squeezed lemon juice
    1/3 c  Safflower oil
      2 tb Fresh mint
           Salt; to taste
 
  Note:  The author says that 1 tsp. dried mint could be used, but
  dried mint is nasty stuff, IMHO!
  
  Pour water into a 1-quart saucepan.  Add quinoa; bring to a boil.
  Reduce heat to a simmer; cover.  Cook for 10 to 15 min., or until all
  water has been absorbed.
  
  While the quinoa is cooking, finely chop the tomatoes, parsley, and
  scallions.  Add lemon juice, oil, and mint to tomato mixture.  Stir in
  cooked quinoa and salt.  Mix well.
  
  Let tabouli sit in the refrigerator for a day to blend flavors.
  
  Note:  Also, she neglected to mention that tabouli is traditionally
  served at room temperature.
  
  The recipe was from Linda Najjar of Seattle, Washington, and the "Herb
  Companion" note on it said:  "Substituting quinoa for the traditional
  bulgur wheat gives this tabouli a lighter, fluffier, and slightly
  nutty taste and enables people allergic to wheat to experience the
  flavorful joys of this Middle Eastern dish."
  
  (The Herb Companion, June/July 1993)
  
  Posted by Cathy Harned
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quinoa-Sunchoke Pilaf
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Quinoa
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
  1 1/4 c  Vegetable (or chicken) broth
    3/4 c  Chickpeas, cooked or canned
           - (drained and rinsed)
      1 c  Peeled, chopped sunchokes
    1/2 c  Peas, fresh or frozen
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Place the quinoa in a large bowl; fill with cold water.  Pour into a
  strainer, then return the quinoa to the bowl and rinse 4 times more.
  Drain well.
  
  Heat the oil in a 2-quart saucepan over medium-high heat.  Add the
  rinsed quinoa and cook, stirring, until it cracks and pops, about 3
  to 5 minutes. Add the onion and cook, stirring, until the onion is
  soft.
  
  Add the vegetable broth and bring to a boil over high heat.  Add the
  chickpeas, sunchokes, peas, and pepper, and return to a boil.  Reduce
  the heat and simmer, covered, 20 minutes.  Fluff with a fork.
  
  Serves 6 to 8
  
  Calories:       172                     Total Fat:      7.7 g
  Protein: 5.5 g                   Saturated Fat:  1.6 g Carbohydrates:
  22.8 g Cholesterol:    5.5 mg Fiber: 3.6 g Sodium: 329 mg
  
  Source: Wholesome Harvest - by Carol Gelles (ISBN: 0-316-30735-1)
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raisin Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Shortening
      1 c  Raisins
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Ginger
 
  In a pot, combine the sugar, water, raisins, shortening & salt.  Stir
  over a gentle heat until the sugar & shortening has melted.  Raise
  heat & bring to a boil, stirring continuously.  Simmer for 1 minute.
  Remove from heat & cool.
  
  Sift dry ingredients in a mixing bowl.  Add the cooled mixture & mix
  well. Drop by the teaspoonful onto a cookie sheet.  Bake at 350F for
  15 minutes. Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 l  Crushed raspberries
      1 l  Sugar
 
  Cook raspberries uncovered for 10 minutes.  Add sugar, stirring to
  dissolve. Bring to a boil, stirring frequently.  Boil to jam stage (12
  minutes) & remove from heat.  Stir & skim 5 minutes.  Pour into hot,
  sterilized jars & seal.
  
  Agriculture Canada, "Jams, Jellies & Other Preserves"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Cooked Bean Curd.
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Chinese
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Bean curd
      1 ea Chinese cabbage, chopped
      1 tb Green onion
      1 ts Ginger, chopped
      1 ts Garlic, chopped
      4 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Stock
      4 tb Dry sherry
      2 tb Broen sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Five-spice powder
      2 ts Sesame oil
 
  Cube the drained tofu.  Mix all the mariande ingredients (ginger to
  sesame oil) together.  Stir in bean curds & let stand for several
  hours, or overnight.
  
  Heat a wok & cook the bean curd gently till all the liquid has been
  evaporated or absorbed.  Arrange the cabbage on a dish & turn the
  bean curd onto it.  Garnish with onion & serve with boiled rice.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Kidney Bean Burgers
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Beef
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     16 oz Cooked red kidney beans
    1/2 c  Small onion
    1/2 ea Green pepper
      1 ea Steamed & mashed carrot
    1/8 c  Picante salsa sauce
      1 c  Bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Wholewheat flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Chili powder
 
  Mix all ingredients.  Form into equal sized balls & flatten into
  patties. Bake at 450 for 15 to 20 minutes.  Serve on buns with
  tortilla chips.
  
  Posted by Sandee Eveland in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Lentil Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Indian, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Ghee
      1 md Onion, chopped
     12 ea Peppercorns
      4 ea Bay leaves, crumbled
  3 3/4 c  Vegetable stock
    1/2 lb Red lentils, washed
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      3 ea Dry red chilies, seeded
           Salt
      1 ea 1/2" piece of ginger, grated
 
  Heat ghee over low heat.  Add onion & cook til it softens, stirring
  ocassionally.  Add peppercorns & bay leaves & cook for 5 minutes.  Add
  stock, 1 c water, lentils, parsley, chilies & salt.  Cook over medium
  heat for 10 minutes.  When soup begins to boil, add ginger & cotinue
  to cook & stir for 10 minutes.  Serve hot.  Lentils should be soft.
  
  Adapted from Ismail Merchant "Indian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Refrigerator Pickles
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ga Cucumbers & onions (sliced)
      4 c  White sugar
    1/3 c  Pickling salt
      4 c  White vinegar
  1 1/2 ts Tumeric
  1 1/2 ts Mustard seed
  1 1/2 ts Celery seed
      1    Grn.or red peppers (Sliced)
 
  Thinly slice the cucumbers and onions into a gallon jar. Heat the
  other ingredients in a large pot. Pour over the vegetables. Store
  covered in the refrigerator. New vegetables may be added at any time.
  Keeps for 4 months.
  
  Posted by Helen Peagram in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Republica Dominicana Red Beans & Rice (Arroz Con Habijual
 Categories: Main dish, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------BEANS--------------------------------
      1 c  Dry red beans *
      3 c  -Water (approx.)
      3 c  -Fresh water
      1 tb Cumin
      1 tb Raw sugar
      1 tb White vinegar
      2    Garlic cloves
           - peeled and chopped
      1    Onion; peeled and chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 ds Tabasco

MMMMM--------------------------FOR RICE-------------------------------
      1 c  Rice
  2 1/2 c  Water
 
  *NOTE: (red beans are not the same as kidney beans- they are smaller)
  
  Soak the beans in the water overnight or at least 8 hours. Drain the
  soaking water.
  
  Put the beans and all the rest of the ingredients into a large
  cooking pot. Bring the water to a boil, then reduce to moderate-low
  heat and cook for about 1 hour, until most of the water is absorbed.
  Add more water if you need to, and stir the beans every 10 minutes or
  so.
  
  When the beans have 1/2 hour to go, make the rice. Put the rice and
  water in a saucepan, bring to a boil, then reduce the heat and cover.
  Simmer until all the water is absorbed, about 30 minutes. Then turn
  the heat off and let sit, with cover on, about 10 minutes.
  
  To serve, serve the beans over the rice.
  
  Serve with sliced avocado (aguacate), fried plaintain chips (platanos
  fritos), and cornbread (served fried like hush-puppies). For dessert
  serve fruit such as papaya with coconut, and expresso coffee (for
  Dominican style expresso: fill up your demitasse cup 1/2 full of raw
  sugar, then add outrageously strong expresso coffee!).
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb Raisin Crumble
 Categories: Vegetarian, Dessert, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Rhubarb; trimmed *
    1/2 c  Strawberry preserves **
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 tb Finely grated orange zest***
      2 c  Granola, pref. maple walnut
           Maple syrup to taste
 
  *Note: Rhubarb should be in 1-inch slices. **Use fruit-sweetened
  preserves. ***Use organic if possible.
  
  Combine ingredients in a heatproof pan 13x8x2 inches. The combined
  ingredients will seem dry; don't be concerned; the rhubarb will give
  up considerable liquid as it cooks. Place pan in a cold oven, set
  temperature to 375 F, and bake uncovered for 15 minutes. Stir and
  continue baking until rhubarb is tender but still firm, about 10 to
  15 minutes more.
  
  Add maple syrup to taste if more sweetness is desired.
  
  Notes: This recipe makes a big batch; it can easily be cut in half.
  When stored in the refrigerator overnight, this dish takes on a
  pudding-like texture.
  
  Source: Lorna Sass, Cooking From An Ecological Kitchen (William
  Morrow)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice and Endive Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Italian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Uncooked rice
  1 1/2 c  Chopepd onions
      2 ea Celery stalks, sliced
      2 sm Carrots, peeled & cut into
           -- half moons
      3 tb Olive oil
      3 c  Vegetable stock
     10 ea Ripe plum tomatoes, chopped,
           -- or 28 oz can whole plum
           -- tomatoes, crushed
      1 ea Head curly endive, chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
  1 1/2 tb Chopped fresh basil
           Salt & pepper
 
  Cook the rice.
  
  Meanwhile, saute the onions, celery & carrots in the olive oil till
  tender. Add the stock & tomatoes & endive.  Simer for about 15
  minutes. Stir in the cooked rice.  Add parsley & basil.  Season with
  salt & pepper to taste.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice and Peas with Tempeh
 Categories: Misc/food, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Uncooked brown rice
    1/2 c  Unsweetened coconut
  2 1/2 tb Oil
      4 c  Water
    1/2 ea Cinnamon stick
      2 c  Cooked black-eyed peas
      3 ea Bay leaves
      1 md Onion, chopped
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 sm Chili
    1/2 ea Red or green bell pepper
      8 oz Tempeh, cubed
      1 pn Fennel seeds
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 ea Scallions, chopped
 
  Saute rice & coconut in 2 1/2 tb oil for 2 to 3 minutes, stirring
  constantly.  Add water & cinnamon stick.  Cover pot & bring to a boil.
  Reduce heat & simer for 40 minutes, or till all the water has
  evaporated.
  
  Cook black-eyed peas with bay leaves (1 c dried = 2 c cooked) in
  salted water for 20 minutes or till tender.  Drain & remove bay
  leaves.  Keep warm.
  
  Saute onion & garlic in oil til lonions soften.  Stir in chili & bell
  pepper & saute for a couple of minutes.  Add the tempeh, fennel, salt
  & pepper & lower heat.  Stir frequently & cook covered til the tempeh
  is golden brown & a littel crisp.
  
  Combine all the ingredients & serve with hot sauce.  Alternately,
  combine everything & toss in a moderate oven for 10 minutes to warm
  everything through.  Top with scallions.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Patties
 Categories: Vegetarian, Beef
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 lg Onions, diced
      1    Stalk celery, diced
      2    Carrots, diced
      1    Green pepper, diced
      2    Garlic cloves, diced
      6 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
      3 c  Cooked rice
    1/4 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Flour
 
   In a large skillet, heat the oil over medium heat; add the onions and
  saute for 5 minutes, until golden.
  
   Add the celery, carrots, andpepper; saute for 5 minutes,, add the
  diced garlic, and saute for 5 minutes more until the vegetables are
  tender. Season with the tamari, garlic powder, basil and oregano.
  
   Remove from heat. Add the rice. Season to taste. Add the peanut
  butter and flour.
  
   Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Oil a cookie sheet.
   Form the mixture into patties, and place on the cookie sheet. Bake
  for 5 to 6 minutes until crispy golden on top; turn over and bake for
  5 to 6 minutes more.
  
   Variation
  
   Substitute kasha (buckwheat groats), cous cous or bulghur for the
  rice.
  
   From _The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals_ from Gentle World
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Salad with Wasabi Dressing
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 ts Wasabi powder*
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Rice wine vinegar
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Ground white pepper
    1/2 ts Grated lemon zest

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      3    Green onions
      1    Sweet red bell pepper
      1 sm Cucumber; peeled
      2 c  Cooked white or brown rice
 
  *Wasabi powder can be found in Oriental food markets For dressing, mix
  wasabi powder with 1 t. warm water and let stand 10 minutes. Combine
  all dressing ingredients and and whisk until smooth. For salad,
  thinly slice green onions on the diagonal. Core, seed and dice red
  pepper. Cut the cucumber in half lengthwise and scoop out seeds. Cut
  cucumber crosswise into crescent-shaped slices. Add vegetables and
  rice to dressing and toss well. Shared by CINDI SHEAHAN Prodigy ID#
  PKRX18B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Ghee
      1 c  Mixed vegetables, diced*
      2 ea Garlic cloves
      2 c  Cooked rice
      3 c  Water
    1/2 ts Sage
      1 ts Rosemary
      1 ts Parsley
      1 tb Soy sauce
           Salt & pepper
 
  Heat ghee in a large soup pot.  Saute the diced vegetables & garlic
  for 15 minutes.  Pour over water, bring to a boil & simmer until the
  vegetables are almost tender.  While the vegetables are simmering,
  add the herbs in order.  About 5 minutes before the end of the
  cooking time, add the cooked rice.  Add more water if necessary.
  
  "Tasajara Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice with Peas
 Categories: Rice, Indian, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Black mustard seeds
      2 c  Basmati rice
      3 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Peas, frozen or fresh
 
  Heat oil in pot.  Add mustard seeds & leave them for 10 to 20
  seconds. Add rice & peas (if using fresh) & stir-fry for 1 minute.
  Add water & salt. Cover & bring to a boil, reduce heat to very low &
  cook till the rice is almost done, 15 to 25 minutes depending on the
  type of the rice & the amount of heat used.  If using forzen peas,
  thaw them under running hot water.  Add to the rice about 5 minutes
  before the cooking process is finished.  Mix & serve with dal &
  vegetables.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Eggplant with Chilies
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Eggplant
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 c  Onion, finely chopped
      1 c  Tomatoes, chopped
    1/2 c  Finely shredded ginger
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Red chili peppers
      1 tb Hungarian sweet paprika
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped coriander
 
  Grill or broil whole eggplants until they collapse.   When cool
  enough to handle, slit them open & scoop out the flesh into a skillet
  with the oil. Add the onion & cook over a medium heat for 10 minutes.
  Stir frequently to prevent scorching.
  
  Add all the reemaining ingredients excepting the coriander.  Cook,
  stirring often for 10 to 15 minutes.  Take care not to let it burn.
  Stir in the coriander & serve.
  
  Bruce Cost, "Ginger East to West"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Onions
 Categories: Side dish, Indian, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Spanish Onion
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
 
  Peel onion, cut in half & slice into 1/4" thick slices.  Separate the
  slices into shreds.
  
  Heat a large skillet till hot, then add the oil.  When smoking hot,
  add the onions, do not stir but let them sizzle for 30 seconds.  Now
  stir, keep roasting, tossing & turning for about 2 minutes.  They
  should be crisp. Toss with coriander & serve.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Red Pepper Spread
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sl Whole-wheat bread
           -- crusts trimmed
     12 oz Roasted red sweet peppers
           -- drained     -OR-
      2 md -Red sweet peppers, roasted
      1    Garlic clove
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Olive oil
           Sliced French bread  -OR-
           Crackers
 
  In a covered food processor container, process bread until crumbly;
  set aside.  Add red pepper, garlic and salt to container.  Cover and
  process until smooth.  With the processor running, gradually add oil
  through feed tube.  Add reserved bread crumbs; cover and process
  until smooth. Transfer to small bowl or a ramekin.  Serve chilled or
  at room temperature, with crackers or toasted bread.  Yields about 1
  cup.
  
  Note: To roast your own peppers, cut peppers in half lengthwise.
  Remove seeds.  Place pepper halves, cut side down, on a foil-lined
  baking sheet. Bake, uncovered, in a 425 F oven for 20 to 25 minutes
  or until the skin is bubbly and brown.  Place peppers in a clean
  paper bag; seal and let stand for 20 to 30 minute or until cool
  enough to handle.  Pull off skin gently and slowly, using a paring
  knife.
  
  Source: The Associated Press (published in The Daily Breeze, 8/4/93)
  Typos by: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ryzi Me Araka (Rice and Peas)
 Categories: Greek, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 tb Olive oil
    1/3    Onion,finely chopped
    1/3 c  Uncooked rice
    1/3 pk Frozen peas (16 oz)
           -or 2 cups shelled fresh
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
  13/16 c  Hot water or vegetable
 
  		   - broth
  
  Heat the oil in a medium-size heavy saucepan. Saute the onions until
  tender.  Add the rice and stir until all grains are well-coated. Add
  peas, salt and pepper (you may want to use less salt if you plan to
  use vegetable broth), and stir. Add hot water or broth, bring to a
  boil and cook over low heat for 25 minutes.
  
  Nutritional analysis per serving: 150 calories, 5 grams protein, 3
  grams fat, 32 grams carbohydrate.
  
  Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saag Vali Khichri
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Mung beans, whole
  5 1/2 c  -Water
    1/2 c  Rice
      1 sl Ginger, 1/4"
      1 lb Spinach, fresh
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      4 ts Ghi
    1/8 ts Hing; (asafetida)
      1 ts Cumin seeds, whole
      1    Onion
      1 ts Cumin, ground
      2 ts Coriander, ground
    1/8 ts Cayenne
           Pepper, black

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Lemon juice
           Butter
           Cilantro
 
  Pick over, wash, and drain the mung beans.  Wash and drain the rice.
  Wash the spinach well and separate the leaves.  Peel the onion, cut
  in half lengthwise, and slice into fine half-rounds. Put the mung
  beans in a heavy 4-quart pot.  Add water and bring to a boil over a
  medium-high flame. Cover, lower heat, and simmer two mintes.  Turn
  off the heat and let the pot sit, covered, for an hour.  Bring the
  water to a boil again. Add the rice and the ginger and bring to a
  simmer. Cover, turn heat to low, and cook gently for one hour.  Stir
  occasionally during this period. Now add the spinach and salt.  Bring
  to a simmer. Cover and cook gently for 1/2 hour, stirring now and
  then to avoid sticking. Add a little hot water if the porridge seems
  too thick. Heat the ghi in a #5 skillet over a medium flame.  When
  hot, put in the hing. Two seconds later, put in the whole cumin
  seeds.  Five seconds later, put in the onion. Stir and fry until the
  onion begins to turn brown at the edges. Add the ground cumin,
  coriander, and cayenne.  Stir and fry for one minute. Empty the
  contents of the skillet into the rice and bean pot. Stir. Cover and
  cook for five more minutes.  Discard the ginger. Sprinkle with
  pepper. Serve in individual bowls with some or all of the garnishes.
  
                                     Madhur Jaffrey's
                                     World-of-the-East Vegetarian
  Cooking
                                     Posted by Sam Waring
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Safaid Channe
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked chick peas
      1 c  Chick pea stock
    1/4 c  Light vegetable oil
      2 c  Finely chopped onions
      2 ts Chopped garlic
      2 tb Shredded ginger
      2 ts Ground coriander
    1/3 ts Ground cardamom
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Red pepper
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 md Tomato, chopped
      1 ts Salt
 
  Heat oil in a large pot over medium heat.  Add onions & fry for 5
  minutes. Add garlic & ginger & fry for 2 minutes.  Add all the spices
  plus the lemon juice.  Mix well & fry for 2 minutes.  Add tomatoes &
  cook for another 5 minutes.
  
  Add the stock, salt & another 1/2 cup of water.  Cover & simmer over
  low heat for 10 minutes.  Add chick peas & cook, covered, for another
  10 minutes.  Serve garnished with sliced onion & green chilies.
  Serve with any puffy bread.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saffron Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pn Saffron
      2 tb Hot water
      1 tb Yeast
      1 ts Sugar
      5 oz Warm water
      1 lb Wholewheat flour
      1 pn Salt
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      3 oz Margarine
      2 oz Shortening
      8 oz Currants
      1 oz Candied peel
      5 oz Soymilk
 
  Mix together the saffron & 2 tb hot water.  Place in a covered jar &
  let stand overnight.  Strain, reserving the water.
  
  Dissolve the yeast in warm water with the sugar.  Leave to start
  working. Put flour & salt in a bowl.  Add nutmeg.  Rub in the
  margarine & shortening.  Toss in the currants & peel.  Add the
  saffron water to the yeast mixture.  Pour it into the flour.  Add the
  milk.  Mix till you have a dough.
  
  Knead the dough in the bowl.  Cover & leave in a warm place for 1
  hour or until the dough has doubled in size.
  
  Heat oven to 350F.  Knead the dough again.  Divide it into two & put
  each half into a 1 lb loaf tin, greased.  Cover, & leave in a warm
  place for 10 minutes.  Bake for 1 hour.  Cool on wire racks.
  
  Gail Duff, "A Book of Herbs & Spices"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salata Tahina (Tahini Salad)
 Categories: Misc/food, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Garlic cloves
           Salt
    3/4 c  Tahini
      1 tb White vinegar
      1    Lemon; juiced
    1/2 c  -Water
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
 
  Crush garlic cloves with 1/2 teaspoon salt.
  
  Place tahini in mixing bowl and beat well.  This preliminary beating
  reduces the strong flavour of the tahini.
  
  Beat in garlic and vinegar.  Gradually add lemon juice alternately
  with water.  To make a cream salad of good consistency add enough
  lemon juice to make the tahini very thick before adding water.  This
  way you have more scope in adjusting the flavour and consistency of
  the sauce.
  
  Add salt to taste, and more lemon juice if a sharper sauce is
  required. Blend in cumin and parsley and chill until required.  Serve
  as a mazza or as directed in recipes.
  
  Makes about 1 3/4 cups
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook  by Tess Mallos Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sambaar
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Yellow split peas
  2 1/2 c  Water
      1 ea Onion, chopped
      3 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 sl Ginger, chopped, 1/2-inch
      1 ea Red chili
      2 tb Ghee
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 sm Cauliflower, separated into
           -- florets
      2 md Carrots, diced
    1/2 md Eggplant, diced
    1/2 sm Cabbage, sliced
           Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Cayenne
 
  In a large pot, comine the split peas with the water & cook for 30 to
  50 minutes, till soft.
  
  Heat ghee till hot.  Saute, onion, garlic, ginger & chili.  (Add more
  chili if you want a hotter curry).  Add the rest of the spices &
  saute for 2 minutes.  Add vegetables & cook for another 5 minutes.
  Add 1/2 c stock from the split peas.  Cover & cook for 15 minutes, or
  until the vegetables are tender.
  
  Add cooked split peas to the vegetables.  Squeeze with lemon juice.
  Check to see if you need salt.  Simmer for another couple of minutes
  & serve.
  
  Marlena Spieler, "Hot & Spicy"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauce Bourguignonne (Red Wine, Tomato & Rosemary Sauce)
 Categories: French, Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Minced onion
      1 c  Peeled & diced carrots
    1/2 c  Diced celery
      3    Garlic cloves
           - pressed or minced
      3 c  Water
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 c  Red wine
      2 tb Dry red wine vinegar
           Salt; to taste
      1 tb Chopped fresh rosemary; -OR-
      1 ts -Dried rosemary)
    1/2 ts Dried thyme
      1 ts Dried basil
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/3 c  Cold water
      2 tb Arrowroot or cornstarch
 
    Saute onion, carrots, celery & garlic in 2 tsp. water for 5 min.
  Place in a heavy 3-qt. pot along with remaining ingr. except 1/3 cup
  water and arrowroot. Bring to a boil, cover partially, and simmer for
  15-20 min., until veg. are tender. Whisk together cold water &
  arrowroot until smooth & fully dissolved. Slowly pour into simmering
  sauce, stirring constantly. Lower heat & continue stirring as sauce
  thickens and becomes shiny, about 5 min. If necessry, add more
  dissolved arrowroot or cornstarch, a teaspoon at a time, until sauce
  reaches desired consistency.
  
  Variations: Substitute another cup of wine for one of the cups of
  water. OR Add 1 cup of sliced sauteed mushrooms to the sauce just
  before the arrowroot or cornstarch.
  
  From: the January 1993 issue of Vegetarian Times
  
  FROM:    JANICE MESSALI   (SWSH14B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sausage Patties
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      8 oz Tempeh

MMMMM---------------------REGULAR SEASONINGS--------------------------
    1/2 ts Sage
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Cumin
      2 tb -Warm water
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Oil

MMMMM-----------------ITALIAN SAUSAGE SEASONINGS----------------------
      2    Garlic cloves; pressed
    1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Soy sauce
 
  Steam tempeh for 15 minutes.  Cool, grate on coarse side of grater.
  Mix together dry seasonings, then stir in water, oil and soy sauce.
  Press firmly into thin patties.	Fry in a little oil until browned on
  both sides.
  
  Italian Sausage: Grate the steamed tempeh. Mix together dry
  seasonings. Combine tempeh, dry seasonings, oil and soy sauce. Press
  into thin patties or crumble on top of pizza before it is baked.
  
  From The Farm Vegetarian Cookbook. Uploaded by Nan Blanchard;
  73540,700
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Bean Curd
 Categories: Vegetarian, Appetizer, Snack
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 oz Medium tofu
      3 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Cut tofu into rectangles, 1 1/2 X 3/4 X 3/4 inch.  Pat dry.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet over a medium high heat.  When hot, put in half
  the tofu.  Cook 3 minutes on one side.  Turn over & cook for another
  3 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon.  Keep on a warmed platter.
  Repeat with the rest of the tofu.
  
  Serve hot with a sauce.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Eggplant
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Eggplant
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Oil
      1 ts Chili powder, optional
 
  Cut eggplant into slices 1/4" thick.  Sprinkle with salt & let sit
  for 1/2 hour.  Rinse, squeeze & pat dry. Saute in oil till soft,
  adding more oil if you need it.  Place on paper towels.
  
  Serve sprinkled with hot chili powder if desired.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Green Beans and Mushrooms
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish, Mushroom
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh green beans
      2 tb Kosher salt
    1/2 lb Mushrooms
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Unsalted butter
      3 tb Pine nuts
      1 ts Chopped fresh tarragon
           -=OR=-
    1/4 ts -Dried tarragon
 
  SNAP BOTH ENDS OFF THE BEANS and pull off any strings. Cut large pole
  beans crosswise into 2-inch pieces. Don't cut smaller French haricots
  verts. Fill a mixing bowl or medium pot with 4 cups cold water and
  add 1 tray of ice cubes. Set aside. Bring 4 quarts of water with 2
  tablespoons kosher salt to a boil over high heat and add the beans.
  The water will stop boiling when you add the beans. After it has
  returned to the boil, cook the beans, uncovered, until tender but
  still crisp. This will take from 3 to 5 minutes depending on the size
  and age of the beans. Remember that this is only a preliminary
  preparation so do not overcook the beans. Drain the beans and place
  them immediately into the ice water. Stir until cool, then drain.
  Spread the beans on towels and pat dry. Meanwhile, slice mushrooms
  thinly and set aside on a plate. Heat the oil and butter in a medium
  skillet over medium heat and add the pine nuts and mushrooms. If
  using dried tarragon, add it now. Cook, stirring, about 5 minutes.
  Add the green beans and fresh tarragon and cook until beans are hot,
  about 3 minutes longer. Transfer to a serving platter and serve
  immediately.
  
  Michael Roberts, "Prodigy Guest Chefs Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Mushrooms
 Categories: Indian, Mushroom, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 tb Ghee
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds
      6 oz Button mushrooms, sliced
 
  Melt ghee in a skillet overl ow heat.  Add lemon juice, cayenne &
  cumin seeds.  Cook for 3 to 4 minutes.  Add mushrooms & saute for 4
  to 6 minutes.
  
  Adapted from Ismail Merchant, "Indian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Vegetables
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Eggplant
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      2 ea Green peppers, sliced
      2 md Carrots
      1 ds Black pepper
      1 ds Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley finely chopped
    1/4 c  Fresh dill, finely chopped
      1 md Tomato, cut into wedges
 
  Cut eggplant lengthwise into 1/4" slices.  Sprinkle slices with salt
  & let sit for 1/2 hour.  Rinse, squeeze & pat dry.
  
  Heat oil over medium heat.  Saute eggplant for a few minutes til soft.
  Remove to serving dish.  Saute sliced green peppers till just tender.
  Place next to eggplant.  Saute carrot till just tender & place next
  to green peppers.  Season with pepper & cinnamon.
  
  Sprinkle parsley over eggplant & the dill over the carrots.  Garnish
  with tomato & serve.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savoury Mashed Sweet Potato Patties
 Categories: Vegetable, Snack
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 md Sweet potatoes
      3 tb Ground almonds or cashews
      3 tb Ground sunflower seeds
      3 tb Grated coconut
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/2 ts Cumin
      1 ts Coriander
      1 tb Maple sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Chick pea flour
           Ghee for frying
 
  Boil the sweet potatoes for 20 to 30 minutes or until tender.  Drain
  & peel while still warm.  Mash.
  
  Mix in all the remaining ingredients except the ghee.  Knead till
  thoroughly blended.  Divide into 8 portions.
  
  Wash & dry hands & then rub with oil.  Roll each ball in your hands &
  then flatten into a patty.
  
  Brush with ghee a griddle or skillet.  Over the lowest heat possible,
  heat the ghee & then fry the patties for 15 to 20 minutes each side
  until a crisp reddish brown crust forms.  Serve hot.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallion Cakes
 Categories: Bread, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 lb All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2 ts Coarse-grain sea salt
           -OR- kosher salt
      5    Scallions; coarsely chopped
      5 tb Vegetable oil (or more)
 
  Place the flour in a mixing bowl.  Sprinkle evenly with the baking
  powder and sugar.  Mix with a wooden spoon.  Add the water gradually,
  stirring and mixing with the wooden spoon.  Knead the dough for 3-4
  minutes.  Cover it with a damp cloth and leave for half an hour, then
  knead again for 2-3 minutes.  Divide the dough into ten portions and
  form into narrow strips 8-10 inches long.  Flatten the strips with a
  rolling pin and ten bands of pancake thickness.  Sprinkle each band
  with salt and then with chopped scallions.  Roll the bands lengthwise
  into long double-thickness spaghetti-shaped strips.  Hold one end of
  the strip and turn the other end around in circles until the
  concentric rings form themselves around the center into a spiral
  pancake.  Flatten the pancake with the palm of the hand.  Repeat
  until the dough has been made into ten spiral pancakes.
  
  Heat the oil on the bottom of a large flat-bottomed frying pan.  When
  hot, lift the handle of the frying pan so that the surface of the pan
  is evenly greased.  Place the spiral pancakes on the surface of the
  pan.  Fry over low heat for 2-1/2 to 3 minutes and turn the pancakes
  over.  Repeat and fry gently until the pancakes are evenly browned on
  both sides.
  
  Source: New Chinese Vegetarian Cooking, by Kenneth Lo Typos by: Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scrambled Tofu
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 tb Olive or canola oil
      1 lg Onion
           - peeled & coarsely chopped
      2 lg Garlic cloves
           - peeled & finely chopped
      6    Scallions; thinly sliced,
           - (keep white & green parts
           -  separate)
    1/4 lb Mushrooms; thinly sliced
      1 sm Red bell pepper
           - seeded and diced
      1 lb Silken or soft tofu; drained
           - mashed or crumbled
    1/2 ts Dried leaf oregano
    1/4 ts Tumeric (optional)
    1/4 c  Finely chopped green olives
           -(pitted)
      1    Sheet nori sea vegetable
           - finely shredded (optional)
           Tamari or soy sauce
           - to taste
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Hot sauce (optional)
 
  Great for brunch or a light supper dish, this recipe can easily be
  doubled to serve 4 to 6.  Silken tofu results in a very soft-cooked
  texture, while soft tofu will be slightly firmer.
  
  NOTE: Tumeric will give a faint yellow color to the mixture, but will
  not contribute significantly to the taste.
  
  DIRECTIONS: In a large skillet or wok, heat the oil and saute the
  onion, garlic, and white of scallions until the onions turn light
  brown, about 4 to 5 minutes.
  
  Add the mushrooms, red pepper, tofu, oregano, and tumeric (if using),
  and continue to saute over medium-high heat for another 3 minutes,
  stirring frequently.  Stir in the scallion greens, olives, nori (if
  using), soy sauce and pepper to taste.  Pass optional hot sauce.
  
  Source: Recipes from an Ecological Kitchen - by Lorna J. Sass
  :       ISBN: 0-688-10051-1
  :       Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seasoned Tempeh Filling in a Steamed Wonton Skin.
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 oz Tempeh, precooked;
           - grated or minced fine
      2 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Vegetable Bouillon
           -dissolved in:
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Hot Pepper Sesame Oil
      1 tb Cornstarch (or Arrowroot)
      1 ts Honey
      1 c  Green Onions; chopped fine
      1 c  Mushrooms; chopped fine
      2 ts Ginger Root, minced
      1 pk Wonton Skins (3-inch size)
 
  Directions: Combine half of the tempeh with tamari, water, oil, honey
  and cornstarch in blender and puree. Take the other half of the
  tempeh and mix with the vegetables, then add the puree and hand mix.
  Take 1 rounded tsp of this filling and place in center of Wonton
  Skin; moisten the outer rim and fold in half pressing the edges to
  seal.  Steam for 8 min.  Serve with Sweet and Sour Sauce.
  
  Comments and/or improvements are welcome. Gunter Pfaff, 73740,2515
  
  Notes: Nobody should try to make this alone, its a great group
  project for four.
  
  We use a tempeh made with soybeans and barley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seasoned Tempeh in a Cold Vegetarian Gelatin.
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      8 oz Grated tempeh
      2 tb Tamari
      1 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Cayenne Pepper
           Vegetarian Gelatin
           - to make 3 liquid cups
      1    Green Pepper
      1    Red Pepper
      1    Kosher Dill Pickle
      4    -to
      6    Cubes of vegetarian bouillon
           - (optional)
           Black Pepper; to taste
           - (optional)
 
  Mix tamari with paprika and cayenne pepper in a bowl and then stir in
  grated tempeh. Spread on large plate and microwave for 5-10 min. (Or
  bake or broil until firmer and browner).
  
  Chop fine the peppers and pickle and mix with browned tempeh. Bring 3
  cups of vegetarian gelatin (with or without bouillon) to boil, pour
  over the pepper/pickle/tempeh mix and then pour into flat dish to 1/2
  inch height.
  
  Let cool, then refrigerate for at least 1 hour.
  
  Serve cold with sour dough rye bread and mustard and Lowenbrau
  (optional).
  
  This recipe was created and uploaded by an ex-meat eating Bavarian
  turned vegan tempeh maker; comments and/or improvements welcome.
  
  Gunter Pfaff, 73740,2515
  
  P.S.  In 1989 Dorothy Bates published a neat little tempeh cookbook
  which was easily overlooked: The Tempeh Cookbook; The Book Publishing
  Company; P.O. Box 99, Summertown TN 33483
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seasoned Vegetarian Broth
 Categories: Vegetarian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5    Dried Chinese blk. mushrooms
  4 1/2 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Szechwan preserved veg. *
      3    Green onion; quartered
      2 lg Carrots; coarsely chopped
    1/4 ts Oriental sesame oil
    1/4 ts Light soy sauce
    1/4 ts Black soy sauce
    1/8 ts Ground white pepper
 
  *Note: canned Szechwan preserved vegetable should be rinsed and thinly
  sliced.
  
  Cover mushrooms with hot water and let stand 30 minutes.  Drain; cut
  off stems; reserve.  Rinse stems and caps.
  
  Bring mushroom stems and caps, 4 1/4 cups cold water and all remaining
  ingredients to boil in heavy large saucepan.  Reduce heat, cover and
  simmer 2 hours.  Cool completely.  Refrigerate overnight.  Strain
  before using. Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
  
  Source: Bon Appetit, November 1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seitan - Method I
 Categories: Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Whole wheat bread flour
           -(Stone-ground), -=OR=-
           -Hi-gluten unbleached white
      3 c  Water (or more),
           -(depending on the amount
           - of gluten in the flour)
    1/2 c  Tamari
     12 sl Fresh ginger
           -(each about 1/8" thick)
      1    Piece kombu, about 3" long
 
  Yield: 14 ounces uncooked; 16 ounces cooked Time: 1 hour preparation;
  2 hours cooking
  
  Mix the flour and water by hand or in a machine to make a
  medium-stiff but not sticky dough.  Knead the dough by hand on a
  breadboard or tabletop, until it has the consistency of an earlobe,
  or by machine until the dough forms a ball that follows the path of
  the hook around the bowl.  You may need to add a little extra water
  or flour to achieve the desired consistency.  Kneading with take
  about 10 to 12 minutes by machine.  Allow the dough to rest in a bowl
  of cold water for about 10 minutes.
  
  While the dough is resting, prepare the stock.  In a large pot, bring
  to boil 3 quarts of water.  Add the tamari, ginger, and kombu, and
  cook for 15 minutes.  Remove from heat and allow to cool.  This stock
  must be cold before it's used.  (The cold liquid causes the gluten to
  contract and prevents the seitan from acquiring a bready texture.)
  You will be using this stock to cook the seitan later.
  
  To wash out the starch, use warm water to begin with.  Warm water
  loosens the dough and makes the task easier.  Knead the dough,
  immersed in water, in the bowl.  When the water turns milky, drain it
  off and refill the bowl with fresh water. In the final rinses, use
  cold water to tighten the gluten.  If you wish, save the bran by
  straining the water through a fine sieve; the bran will be left
  behind.  Save the starch by allowing the milky water to settle in the
  bottom of the bowl; slowly pour off the water and collect the starch,
  which you can use for thickening soups, sauces, and stews.
  
  When kneading, remember to work toward the center of the dough so
  that it does not break into pieces.  After about eight changes of
  water, you will begin to feel the dough become firmer and more
  elastic.  The water will no longer become cloudy as you knead it.  To
  make sure you have kneaded and rinsed it enough, lift the dough out
  of the water and squeeze it.  The liquid oozing out should be clear,
  not milky.
  
  To shape the seitan, lightly oil a 1-pound loaf pan.  Place the rinsed
  seitan in the pan and let it rest until the dough relaxes.  (After the
  dough has been rinsed for the last time in cold water, the gluten
  will have tightened and the dough will be tense, tough, and resistant
  to taking on any other shape.)  After it has rested for 10 minutes,
  it will be much more flexible.
  
  Seitan is cooked in two steps.  In the first step, the dough is put
  into a large pot with about 3 quarts of plain, boiling water.  Boil
  the seitan for about 30 to 45 minutes, or until it floats to the
  surface.  Drain the seitan and cut it into usable pieces (steaks,
  cutlets, 1-inch chunks, or whatever) or leave whole.  Return the
  seitan to the cold tamari stock. Bring the stock to a boil, lower
  temperature, and simmer in the stock for 1-1/2 to 2 hours (45 minutes
  if the seitan is cut into small pieces).  The second cooking step may
  also be done in a pressure cooker, in which case it would take
  between 30 to 45 minutes.
  
  To store seitan, keep it refrigerated, immersed in the tamari stock.
  Seitan will keep indefinitely if it is brought to a boil in the
  tamari stock and boiled for 10 minutes twice a week.  Otherwise, use
  it within eight or nine days.
  
  VARIATIONS: Instead of boiling the seitan in plain water and then
  stock, let the seitan drain for a while after it has been rinsed.
  Slice it and either deep-fry or saute the slices until both sides are
  brown.  Then cook it in the tamari stock according to the recipe.
  
  Seitan also may be cooked (at the second step) in a broth flavored
  with carrots, onion, celery, garlic, tamari, and black pepper, which
  will give it a flavor similar to pot roast.  Shiitake mushrooms may
  also be added to the stock.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M. ISBN:
  0-89815-377-8 Typed (mistakes and all) by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seitan - Method Ii
 Categories: Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     16 c  White bread flour
      6 c  -to
      8 c  Water, or more
    3/4 c  Tamari
      1    Onion; peeled and sliced
      1    Piece kombu, about 4" long
    1/4 c  Ginger; sliced   -=OR=-
      2 ts -Ginger powder
 
  Yield: 1-3/4 lbs uncooked; 2-1/2 lbs cooked Time: 40 to 50 minutes
  preparation: 3 to 4 hours cooking
  
  Mix the flour and water together to make a medium-stiff dough.  Knead
  it until it is elastic when pulled (about 8 to 10 minutes).  Allow
  the dough to rest for about 5 minutes in a bowl of cold water.
  
  Wash out the starch by filling a large bowl (1-1/2 to 2 gallons) with
  warm water and kneading the dough in it, underwater.  When the water
  turns white (after 1 to 2 minutes), drain it through a strainer,
  adding the floury residue back to the ball of dough.  Keep kneading,
  washing, and changing the water, until no more starch is given off.
  This may take as many as eight rinses, about 20 to 25 minutes.
  
  Pour 6 pints of water into a large pot.  Add the tamari, onion, kombu,
  ginger, and dough, and simmer for about 3 hours.  (To speed up the
  cooking, you could cut the dough into small pieces, each about
  1-1/2"; the pieces would cook in about one hour.)  The seitan is
  properly cooked when it is firm to the touch and when it is firm in
  the center.  You can check by cutting into the seitan.  If it is not
  done, it will feel like raw dough in the center.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M. ISBN:
  0-89815-377-8 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seitan a la Normandie
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Sliced onions
      2 tb Minced garlic
      2 tb Sesame oil
           -OR- other cooking oil
      4    Pieces of seitan, 2 oz each
           - fried and simmered
           -(SEE NOTE IN DIRECTIONS)
      6 tb Tamari
      4 tb Apple juice concentrate
      1 c  -Water
    1/2 c  Ground, roasted pecan nuts
           -(Optional; this dish is
           - more delicate without it)
      3 md Apples; peeled, cored,
           - and thinly sliced
      2 tb Mirin or calvados or sherry
 
  NOTE: This recipe needs uncooked seitan.  Cut the seitan into four
  thin pieces (1/8 to 1/4 inch thick), each about 2 ounces.  The
  thinner the better.  Fry the seitan in a (little?) hot oil until
  lightly browned and then simmer it in a little water for about 30
  minutes before using.  If you don't simmer it first, you may need to
  add more liquid to the recipe.
  
  Saute the onions and garlic in the oil until the onions are soft and
  translucent but not fully cooked.
  
  Place the seitan in an ovenproof baking dish and cover it with tamari,
  apple juice concentrate, and water.  Cover with the sauteed onion
  mixture and sprinkle the ground pecans over it, if you wish.  Fan the
  apples over the onions and pour the mirin on top.  Cover the dish
  with a tight-fitting lid or aluminum foil, and bake at 300 degrees F
  for 2 hours.  Serve hot.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M. ISBN:
  0-89815-377-8 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seitan Parmigiana
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 oz Seitan; cut into "steaks"
      4 tb Oil; for frying
      3 c  Spaghetti sauce
      1 md Onion; chopped
           -and sauteed in water
           - (optional)

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/4 c  Corn meal
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
 10 1/2 oz Soft silken tofu
      1 ts Maple syrup
      2 ts Italian herbs
           -(marjoram, sage, oregano,
           - basil, thyme, rosemary)
    1/4 c  Tahini
      1 ts Miso
      1 pn Nutmeg (optional)
 
  For BATTER: Mix together flour, corn meal, water and salt to make a
  thin batter.  Let sit for at least 10 minutes. Dip pieces of seitan
  into batter. Pan fry in oil on both sides until brown.
  
  Combine topping ingredients together in a blender and blend until
  smooth. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Pour 1 cup sauce into a 9" x
  13" baking dish, distributing evenly.  Place batter fried seitan on
  top. Spread onions on top of seitan.  Pour on remaining sauce and top
  with tofu topping. Bake for 30 minutes.
  
  This is a fairly close approximation to what a parmigiana dish should
  be like.  It is based on the mushroom stroganoff from the American
  Vegetarian Cookbook, and comes from Renee Wheeler.
  
  From: tara@starburst.umd.edu (Tara McDermott) @Newsgroups:
  rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seitan Roast with Mushroom Gravy
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Seitan
      2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      2 c  Sliced onions
  1 1/3 oz Tofu scrambler
      4 c  Water
      1 tb Chopped fresh basil leaves
      1 tb Chopped fresh sage leaves
 
  Slice seitan into 1/2" slices & place in a Dutch oven.  Layer
  mushrooms & onions on top.  In a bowl, combine dry tofu scrambler
  with water, basil & sage.  Pour over seitan & vegetables.  Bring to a
  boil & simmer gently for 30 minutes, till gravy has thickened.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" November, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Senator's Navy Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Dried navy beans
      1 tb Olive oil
    3/4 c  Diced onion
    1/4 c  Diced carrot
    1/4 c  Diced celery
      5 c  Vegetable stock
    1/2 ts Thyme
           Salt and pepper; as desired
      3 tb Lemon juice
 
  COVER THE BEANS with cold water and soak overnight. The next day,
  drain and discard water. Place oil in a 2-quart pot over medium heat
  and add the onions, carrots and celery. Cook for 5 minutes. Add the
  broth, beans, thyme, salt and pepper. Cover, reduce heat to low and
  cook until beans are soft, about 1 1/2 hours. Add lemon juice and
  serve.
  
  Michael Roberts, "Prodigy Guest Chefs Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Dressing
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Salad, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 lb Sugar
    1/2 c  Red vinegar
    3/4 oz Onion; chopped
    1/8 ts Salt
           Paprika; to taste
      1 tb Dry mustard
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Tabasco; to taste
    1/4 c  Salad oil
    1/4 oz Toasted sesame seeds
           Peanut butter; to taste
           Roasted garlic; to taste
 
  Prepare like a vinaigrette dressing. The dry mustard will be the
  emulsifier for the oil and vinegar.
  
  This won't have the peanutty taste that the other has, but you can
  experiment with the addition of peanut butter and garlic in this
  recipe. My suggestion is 2 tbsp of PB and 1 tbsp of roasted garlic.
  
  Also, you may want to convert this recipe. It yields about 1 1/2
  quarts.
  
  "Sea World of Florida's Polynesian Luau", Shared by John Munson
  
  Karen's note:  This recipe has been resized to make about six
  2-tablespoon servings, so it will now yield about 3/4 cup of
  dressing.  The notes from John regarding peanut butter and roasted
  garlic were for the original recipe, so you may decrease them as
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Meal
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sesame seeds
    1/2 ts Sea salt
 
   Place 2 tablespoons of the sesame seeds in a blender and blend well.
  Add the remaining seeds by 2 tablespoon measurements, blending well
  after each addition. Mix in the salt.
  
   Use as a dressing on salads, casseroles, and broled vegetables, or
  as a condiment.
  
   Makes 1 cup
  
   From _The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals_ from Gentle World
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Noodles
 Categories: Pasta, Snack, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Linguini
           Water for boiling
      1 pn Salt
      3 ea Scallions, sliced
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 tb Fresh cilantro, chopped
    1/4 ts Red pepper, optional
      2 ts Toasted sesame seeds
 
  Break linguini in half.  In a medium pot, cook linguini in boiling
  salted water till al dente, about 8 minutes.  Drain.  Combine
  linguini with remaining ingredients & serve warm or at room
  temperature.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Soup
 Categories: Greek, Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Appetizer
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 pt Stock
      1 c  Sesame paste
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Lemon, juiced
      1 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Bring the stock to a low boil.  Beat sesame paste with water & lemon
  juice in a bowl.  Add a cup of hot stock & stir together.  Remove
  stock from heat & pour in sesame mixture.  Garnish with herb & serve
  with bread.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shahi Dal
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Pigeon peas, soaked for 20
           -- minutes in cold water
  1 1/2 qt Water
      1 ts Turmeric
      1    Cinnamon stick
    1/2 ts Black peppercorns
      3    Bay leaves
      6    Green cardamoms
      6    Cloves
           Salt
    1/4 c  Ghee
      1 md Onion, sliced finely
      1    1 1/2" piece ginger, chopped
      4    Garlic cloves
      2    Fresh green chilies, chopped
      1 lg Tomato, chopped
 
  Wash pigeon peas & boil them in the water with the turmeric, cinnamon,
  peppercorns, bay leaves, cardamom, cloves & salt for 20 minutes till
  the peas are cooked (may take longer if peas are old).  Heat ghee in
  a skillet, cook onion, garlic, ginger & chilies till the onion is
  browned. Remove & stir into the cooked pigeon peas.  Add tomato,
  cover & simmer for 8 minutes, stirring occasionally to prevent
  sticking.  Serve with rice.
  
  Rani, "Feast of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shiitake Saute
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 lg Fresh shiitake mushrooms
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Mirin or sweet sherry
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  Cut off and discard tough mushroom stems and cut caps into wedges.
  Heat oil in skillet. Add mushrooms and stir-fry until almost tender.
  Add mirin, soy sauce and sugar and toss to coat mushrooms.
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sichuan Fried Eggplant
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Eggplant
      2 c  Peanut oil; for deep-frying

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  -Water
    1/4 ts Salt

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 tb Peanut oil
      3 tb Finely chopped scallions
      1 tb Finely chopped fresh ginger
      2 ts Chili bean sauce
    2/3 c  Stock (chicken or vegetable)
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 tb Chinese black vinegar
           -OR- cider vinegar
      3 tb Tomato paste
      2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Cornstarch; mixed with:
      1 ts -Water
 
  Cut the eggplant into thin 1-1/2-inch by 3-inch slices.  Do not peel
  them.
  
  For the batter mix the flour, water, and salt together in a small
  bowl, then strain through a fine sieve.  Let rest for about 20
  minutes.
  
  For the sauce, heat a wok or large frying-pan until hot and add the 1
  tablespoon of oil.  Put in the scallions, ginger, and chili bean
  sauce and stir-fry for 30 seconds.  Then add the stock, rice wine,
  vinegar, tomato paste, sugar, and soy sauce and continue to cook for
  1 minute.  Thicken the sauce with the blended cornstarch and cook
  another minute.  Set aside.
  
  Heat the oil in a deep-fat fryer or large wok until quite hot.  Dip
  the slices of eggplant into the batter, let the excess batter drip
  off, then deep-fry.  You may have to do this in several batches.
  Remove from the oil with a slotted spoon and drain well on paper
  towel.
  
  Arrange the eggplant slices on a serving platter, pour the sauce over
  and serve.
  
  Source: Asian Vegetarian Feast - by Ken Hom William Morrow and
  Company, Inc. - New York ISBN: 0-688-07753-6 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sichuan Style Bean Curd
 Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Bean curd
      1 ea Green pepper, sliced
      1 ea Leek, sliced
      2 ea Green chilies, chopped
      3 tb Oil
      2 ea Red chili peppers
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Dry sherry
      2 tb Yellow bean paste
      2 ts Sesame oil
 
  Cube the tofu.  Wash vegetables.  Heat oil in a wok & fry the bean
  curd for 2 minutes.  Remove & drain.  Add more oil if necessary &
  stir fry the vegetables & red chilies for 2 minutes.  Add soy sauce,
  sherry & yellow bean paste.  Mix well, add the bean curd & stir
  together for 2 minutes. Sprinkle on the sesame oil & serve with rice.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sicilian Eggplant Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizer, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 md Eggplant
           Olive oil
      4 sm Celery stalks, diced
      4 tb Tomato sauce
      4 tb White vinegar
    1/2 ts Honey
      4 ea Green olives, halved
      4 ea Black olives, halved
      4 tb Capers
      1 tb Pine nuts
    1/2 ts Black pepper
           Salt
 
  Cube eggplant, but don't peel.  Fry in olive oil in a skillet.  In
  another skillet, fry the celery till it begins to brown & then add to
  eggplant. Pour tomato sauce into the empty skillet & mix in the
  vinegar, honey, olives, capers & pine nuts.  Stir.  As soon as they
  are blended, pour over eggplant, add salt & pepper & simmer 10
  minutes.  Add water if needed.Stir often.  Allow to cool & ten serve.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Simple Chop Suey
 Categories: Side dish, Chinese, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 sm Onion, sliced
      2 ea Carrots, julienned
      8 oz Can bamboo shoots
     12 oz Can bean sprouts
      1 tb Sunflower oil
      1 sm Garlic clove, crushed
      3 tb Soy sauce
 
  Drain the bamboo & sprouts.  Remove as many of the green pods as
  possible. Heat the oil in a wok & crush the garlic into it.  Add the
  onion & carrots. Stir fry for a few minutes or until the onion has
  softened slightly. Stir in the bamboo shoots & cook for a minute.
  Add the bean sprouts & cok for another minute.  Add soy sauce.  Serve
  immediately.
  
  Bridget Jones, "Wok Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Simple Tofu Vegetables
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Onions, cubed
      1 md Green bell pepper, cubed
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, halved
      1 lb Cubed tofu
    1/2 c  Sunflower seeds
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Sage
 
  In hot oil, saute onions till limp.  Add pepper, mushrooms, tofu,
  seeds water & herbs.  Simmer till vegetables are limp.  Serve over
  cooked rice.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Singapore Spicy Noodles
 Categories: Main dish, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  ;Water
      2 tb Ketchup
  2 1/2 ts Brown Sugar; Packed
  1 1/2 ts Cilantro; Chopped
      1 ts Cornstarch
    3/4 ts Seasoned Salt
    3/4 ts Garlic Powder W/Parsley
    1/4 ts Red Pepper; Crushed
  2 1/2 tb Chunky Peanut Butter
    1/4 c  Green Onions; Sliced
      8 oz Linguine; Cooked & Drained
      1 c  Red Cabbage; Shredded
 
  In a medium saucepan, combine the water, ketchup, sugar, cilantro,
  cornstarch, and seasonings.  Bring to a boil, reduce the heat and
  simmer, uncovered, for 5 minutes.  Cool for 10 minutes and blend in
  the peanut butter and green onions.  Toss the sauce with the hot
  linguine and red cabbage.
  
  PRESENTATION:
  
  Garnish with green onion curls.  Serve with a marinated cucumber
  salad.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Skordalia (Garlic Potato)
 Categories: Greek, Side dish, Relish, Vegetarian, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 2/3 kg Potatoes
     90 g  Garlic heads
      4    Lemons
    370 ml Olive oil
      6    Black olives
      3    Lemon slices
           Sea salt to taste
           Pinch of parsley
 
  This makes enough Skordalia for several meals. Skordalia is a tasty
  side dish. It can also be used as a relish. Keep it refrigerated.
  
  Boil the unpeeled potatoes in water (salted if required, but not
  necessary).
  
  Crush the garlic into a mixing bowl. Peel the potatoes, and add them
  to the bowl whilst they are still hot.
  
  Add a pinch of salt. Mix the garlic and potato mixture to a pulp;
  using a food processor or mixer.
  
  Alternately, add the lemon juice and olive oil gradually, until all
  the ingredients are blended into a smooth mixture.
  
  Put the mixture into a bowl, garnish with parsley, olives and the
  slices of lemon.
  
  Notes:
  
  The amount of garlic can be varied according to taste; like this it
  has a strong flavour.
  
  Skordalia can be surved as a cold side dish, with vegetables.
  
  Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sloppy Joe
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      4 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      3 lg Mushrooms, chopped
      1 lg Carrot, grated
    1/2 tb Parsley
    1/2 lb Tofu, crumbled
      2 ts Tamari
      3 tb Tomato sauce
 
  Saute onion & garlic in oil till transluscent.  Add pepper, mushrooms,
  carrot & parsley.  Stir fry briefly & add tofu, tamari & tomato
  sauce. Cook till well heated through.  Stuff into pita bread & serve.
  
  Wassermann, "Simply Vegan"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sloppy Joes Ii
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 ea Chopped onion
      1 ea Green bell pepper, chopped
      2 c  TVP granules or flakes mixed
           -- with 1 3/4 c hot water
      6 oz Can tomato paste
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Oregano
    1/4 c  Tomato ketchup
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Honey, optional
           Salt, optional
      8 lg Kaiser rolls, split
           Shredded lettuce
 
  Heat oil in a large skillet & saute garlic, onion, pepper & TVP.  In a
  bowl, mix tomato paste with water, oregano, ketchup, cayenne,
  worcestershire sauce & honey is using.  Stir into skillet.  Bring to
  a boil & add salt if desired.  The sauce should be thick but
  spreadable.
  
  If desired, toast rolls.  Spoon the sauce over the bottom half of the
  roll, pile on the lettuce & top with remaining roll half.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" February, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soupa Fakes
 Categories: Vegetarian, Greek, Soup/stew
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    170 g  Lentils
      1    Medium carrot
      4    Garlic cloves, halved
    1/4    Chopped onion
     60 ml Olive oil
    190 g  Canned peeled tomatoes
           Sea salt
           Black pepper
 
  Boil the lentils for 5 minutes Empty the water and add 500ml of water
  Bring to the boil and allow to simmer for 10 minutes Add all the other
  ingredients and allow to cook on a low heat until all the ingredients
  are tender (takes about an hour or so)
  
  Serve when thick
  
  Posted by Kaz Dunkley
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soupa Revithia
 Categories: Greek, Vegetarian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    220 g  Dried chickpeas
      1 ts Rosemary
    100 ml Olive oil
           Sea salt
           Black pepper
           Lemon juice
 
  Soak the chickpeas for 24 hours, changing the water twice. Simmer for
  30 minutes and then replace the water with hot water. Cook for 20
  minutes, and change the water again. Keep the water level 5 cms above
  the chickpeas Add the rosemary, salt, pepper, and oil. Simmer until
  the chickpeas are tender. Add lemon juice to taste before serving
  
  Posted by Kaz Glover in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Beans
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Pre-soaked blackeye peas
      3 c  Water
      1 md Onion; chopped
      1 sm Green or red pepper; chopped
      2    Garlic cloves
           -- peeled and chopped
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Dried thyme; -OR-
      1    -Sprig of fresh thyme
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      2    Bay leaves
      1 tb Tomato puree
      1 tb Soy sauce
           Chili; to taste
           Salt; to taste
      1    Piece of creamed coconut
           - (approximately 1 inch)
 
  Cover the beans with water and bring to the boil.  Add all the
  ingredients, except the creamed coconut and stir.  Simmer for 45
  minutes or until the beans are cooked and the liquid is reduced.
  Stir in the creamed coconut and adjust the seasoning if necessary.
  The stew should be hearty and thick.  Carrots or other vegetables can
  be added to the stew 10 minutes before it is done.
  
  Note: Commercially-made, good quality creamed coconut can be bought
  in 7 ounce packets.  Available in most supermarkets, grocery and
  health shops, it can be stored for weeks in the refrigerator, to be
  used in sauces, stews, desserts and drinks.
  
  Rosamund Grant, "Caribbean and African Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soy "Sauerbraten"
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  TVP chunks
      1 tb Ketchup
      1 c  Hot water
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Honey
      1 ea Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Whole cloves
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Soy sour cream
      2 tb Oil
 
  Combine TVP chunks, ketchup & water.  Soak for 5 minutes.  Add an
  additional cup of water & simmer on top of the stove for 20 minutes,
  till tender.
  
  Combine vinegar, 1/2 c water, honey, bay leaf & cloves in a pan.
  Bring to a boil & then add TVP.  Remove from heat & let marinate
  overnight in the refrigerator.  Remove TVP chunks & set aside.  Drain
  marinade, remove cloves.  Add cornstarch, soy sauce & sour cream to
  the marinade.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet.  Add TVP chunks & cook till heated through.
  Stir in marinade & cook for a few minutes more.
  
  Serve over noodles.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" February, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soybean Burgers
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Dry soybeans
      1    Eggplant
      1    Onion; diced
      4    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 c  Oats
  1 1/2 c  Wheat germ
    1/2 ts Salt
           Oil

MMMMM-----------------------MUSHROOM GRAVY----------------------------
      1 c  Chopped onions
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 c  Chopped mushrooms
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Arrowroot
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Tamari
 
  Cook soybeans in 3 cups water until tender, about 2 1/2 hours. Drain,
  cool and grind or blend to make 1 cup. Peel eggplant and cube.
  Combine with diced onion and 3 to 4 cloves garlic in saucepan and
  cook in enough oil to cover bottom of pan until onion is tender. Add
  oats, wheat germ, soybean mixture and salt. Stir in 2 tablespoons
  water. Dough should have consistency of thick paste. Press into
  patties and fry in 1/4 inch oil until done on both sides.
  
  To make gravy, saute chopped onions, 2 cloves garlic and mushrooms in
  butter until mushrooms are tender. Dissolve arrowroot in 1/2 cup
  water and add to mushroom mixture. Cook and stir until thickened. Add
  tamari. Serve patties with gravy.
  
  Created by: Golden Temple Conscious Cookery, Los Angeles
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soynog
 Categories: Beverage, Holiday, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Soy milk
      1 tb Soy milk powder
    1/4 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Corn oil
           --(or canola oil or
           --flax seed oil)
      1 ts Lecithin
           --(liquid or granules)
    1/8 c  -to
    1/4 c  Almonds
    1/4    Nutmeg
      1 ts Carob powder (optional)
      1 pn Tumeric (optional)
 
  Grind the almonds first in the blender dry.  Add the rest of the
  ingredients and in a blender until light and fluffy. Can be served
  cold or hot (do NOT boil!).  For variation sprinkle the top with some
  anise seed and/or coriander, or, orange or lemon rind gratings, or,
  powdered cardamom. If your soy milk is not very sweet, then add a
  little honey to the above. If you can't find soy milk powder, then
  try thickening the soynog with, say, with 1/2 to one fresh banana. If
  you want that slippery taste of "real" eggnog then just add more oil,
  but I think is better to simply allow your taste preferences to adapt
  and come to enjoy this soynog on its own terms   :-)
  
  posted by Ted Wayn Altar in REC.FOOD.VEG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soysage
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Dry soybeans
      2    Pieces kombu or kelp
           - each about two pieces long
      2 tb Whole wheat bread flour
    3/4 c  Rolled oats
      1 tb Canola or light sesame oil
      5 tb Soymilk
      2 tb Nutritional yeast
    1/4 ts Ground fennel seed
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Tamari
    1/4 ts Dried oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne
      2 lg Garlic cloves; minced
    1/2 md Onion; finely chopped
    1/4 ts Dijon mustard
  1 1/2 ts Dried sage
           -OR- ground allspice
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      4    -TO
      8 tb Gluten flour
 
  Soak the soybeans and one piece of kombu in about five times their
  volume of water overnight.  Discard soaking water and kombu, rinse
  the beans and cook in about 4C water w/the other piece of kombu.
  Cook until soft, about four hours, and drain.  Coarsely chop the
  beans and kombu, then mix in all remaining ingredients until you get
  a medium stiff mess. Pack the mix tightly into an oven safe glass or
  stainless steel bowl and cover tightly w/foil, carefully sealing the
  edges.  Invert a shallow, heat resistant bowl on the bottom of a
  large stock pot or dutch oven. Pour in enough water to cover the
  bowl, then place the soysage over the bowl. Bring to a simmer, cover
  and steam about an hour and a half, checking occaionally to add water
  if needed.  Let cool and use.
  
  Makes 3C
  
  This is from Brother Ron Pickarski's great book _Friendly_Foods_,
  Berkeley, CA, Ten Speed Press 1991.
  
  From: mad4@ellis.uchicago.edu (Bill Maddex)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti and Tofu
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Pasta
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Tofu, mashed
      2 tb Nutritional yeast
      1 tb Oil
      2 tb Tamari
      2 c  Cooked spaghetti
      3 c  Tomato sauce
 
  In a medium sized bowl, mix tofu, nutritional yeast, oil & tamari.
  Stir in the spaghetti & tomato sauce.  Heat through in a moderate
  oven till hot. Serve.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti with Lentils
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 c  Dry lentils
      1 lg Can tomatoes
      6 oz Tomato paste
      1 c  Water
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Red wine
      8 oz Cooked spaghetti
 
  Put oil in Dutch oven & saute onions & garlic till tender.  Add rest
  of the ingredients except the spaghetti.  Bring to a boil then reduce
  heat & simmer, stirring occasionally.  Cook for 1 hour.  Serve over
  spaghetti.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanakopita Nistisimi (Lenten Spinach Pie)
 Categories: Appetizer, Main dish, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Curly endive
      3 lb Fresh bulk spinach
           -washed, large stems removed
      3 bn Large scallions
           - white and green chopped
           - together
      5 tb Fruity olive oil
      1    Lemon
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh dill
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Rice or cracked wheat

MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
           Extra flour for rolling
      1 ts Sea salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      5 tb Olive oil (about)
      1 tb Sesame seeds
 
  Start by making the pastry.  Sift the flour with the salt and baking
  powder. Mix in about 6 tablespoons water, a little at a time, until
  the dough is gooey, but not wet.  Add 1 tablespoon olive oil, plus
  another teaspoonful, and a little more flour, if needed, to make a
  cohesive mass. Knead the dough for 5 to 10 minutes, until smooth and
  elastic.  Cover it and set aside to relax for an hour or two.
  
  For the filling, separate the curly endive leaves, so the vegetable
  will cook in the same time.  Steam the spinach and endive together in
  a large pan, in the water clinging to the leaves, plus just an extra
  1/2 cup. Turn the leaves over occasionally, so they wilt evenly.
  When they are wilted, but not mushy, drain them in a colander,
  pressing firmly with the back of a wooden spoon to remove as much
  excess liquid as possible. (Reserve the liquid for use in soup, or
  drink with a squeeze of lemon juice, as the Greeks do.)
  
  Saute the scallions in 2 tablespoons olive oil, until barely soft.
  Add a few tablespoons of water if they stick to the pan.  Roughly
  chop the cooked spinach and curly endive and finely grate the zest
  from the lemon. Then toss the cooked vegetables with the scallions,
  parsley, dill, lemon zest and 1 tablespoon lemon juice, salt, and
  pepper, adding 3 tablespoons olive oil. Set aside until you are ready
  to fill the pastry.
  
  Choose an ovenproof earthenware or glass baking dish 2 to 2-1/2
  inches deep and about 2-quart capacity and brush the inside with oil.
  Divide the pastry into two unequal parts, and then again into halves.
  On a floured surface roll out one of the larger pieces of pastry.
  This should be large enough to line the dish, coming up and over the
  sides - this should make it very thin.  Fit it into the baking dish
  and brush it with olive oil. Do the same with the second piece of
  pastry, placing it on top of the first, and brush again with olive
  oil.
  
  Sprinkle the tablespoon of rice or cracked wheat over the bottom, to
  soak up excess juices, and fill with the spinach and herb mixture.
  Roll out the remaining two pieces of pastry, separately, to fit the
  top of the dish. Place the first on top of the spinach, brush with
  olive oil, then place the second on top of that.  Prick the pastry
  with a fork in an attractive pattern and brush the entire top with
  olive oil.  Sprinkle with sesame seeds.  Bake in an oven preheated to
  350 F for 45-50 minutes, until golden brown.
  
                  Source: Recipes from a Greek Island - by Susie Jacobs
                  ISBN: 0-671-74531-X
                  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanakopita Peloponnisos (Peloponnese Spinach Rolls)
 Categories: Appetizer, Main dish, Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 kg Spinach
      1 md Onion; chopped
      1    Leek; chopped
      1 c  Chopped spring onions
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
      3 ts Chopped dill or fennel
     14 ts Ground nutmeg
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      8    Fillo pastry sheets
           Olive oil (or butter)
           - for assembling rolls
 
  SERVES: 6-8 OVEN TEMPERATURE: 180C (350F) COOKING TIME: 50 Minutes
  
  Wash spinach well and cut off any coarse stems.  Chop coarsely and
  put into a large pan.  Cover and place over heat for 7-8 minutes
  shaking pan now and then or turning spinach with a fork.  Heat just
  long enough to wilt spinach so that juices can run out freely.  Drain
  well in colander, pressing occasionally with a spoon.
  
  Gently fry onion in olive oil for 10 minutes, add chopped leek and
  spring onions and fry gently for further 5 minutes until transparent.
  
  Place well-drained spinach in a mixing bowl and add oil and onion
  mixture, herbs and nutmeg.  Blend thoroughly, adding salt and pepper
  to taste.
  
  Place a sheet of fillo pastry on work surface and brush lightly with
  olive oil.  Top with 3 more sheets of pasry, brushing each with oil.
  
  Brush top layer lightly with oil and place half the spinach mixture
  along the length of the pastry towards one edge and leaving 4 cm
  (1-1/2 inches) clear on each side.
  
  Fold bottom edge of pastry over filling, roll once, fold in sides
  then roll up.  Place a hand at each end of roll and push it in gently
  like a concertina.  Repeat with remaining pastry and filling.  Place
  rolls in an oiled baking dish leaving space between rolls.  Brush
  tops lightly with oil and bake in a moderate oven for 30 minutes
  until golden. Serve hot cut in portions.
  
                  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook - by Tess
  Mallos
                  ISBN: 1 86302 069 1
                  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Style Rice
 Categories: Side dish, European
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      4 tb Margarine
           Salt & pepper
      2 tb Sweet wine or sherry
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
      2 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Long grain rice
      1 md Breen bell pepper, diced
      4 md Tomatoes, chopped
      3 c  Hot water
      3 ea Whole cloves
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 ds Cayenne
           Parsley for garnish
 
  Saute mushrooms in 2 tb margarine for a few minutes.  Add salt &
  pepper. Cover & remove from heat.  Saute the onion & garlic in the
  oil & remaining margarine.  Raise heat a little & add the rice,
  stirring till well coated. Add green pepper, tomatoes, hot water,
  cloves, bay leaf, cayenne, mushrooms & stir.  Cover, reduce heat &
  simmer for 15 minutes.  Add wine after about 10 minutes.  Remove
  cloves & bay leaf & sprinkle with parsley before serving.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Vegetable Stew with Eggplant
 Categories: Main dish, Casserole, Vegetarian, European
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5 tb Olive oil
      4 md Onions, chopped
      4 lg Green bell peppers, chopped
      4 lg Tomatoes, chopped
      1 md Eggplant, peeled & cubed
    1/8 ts Cayenne
    1/4 ts Paprika
           Salt
 
  In a heavy skillet, heat oil & saute onions.  Add other ingredients,
  stirring well so that they are coated with theo il.  Cover & simmer
  for 15 minutes or till the peppers are cooked but firm.  Add water if
  the casserole is too dry.
  
  Vera Gewanter "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Vegetable Stew with Squash
 Categories: Main dish, European, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lg Onions, chopped
      4 lg Green bell peppers, chopped
      4 lg Tomatoes, peeled & chopped
      1 lb Yellow squash, chopped
      2 md Potatoes, cubed
      5 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 tb Chopped parsley
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  Heat oil & saute onions for a few minutes.  Add remaining ingredients
  & a little water.  Cover & simmer for 40 minutes, stirring
  occasionally.
  
  Vera Gewanter, "A Passion for Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Shortening
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  White flour
      4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Raisins
 
  Beat shortening for 30 seconds.  Add sugar & beat till ight & fluffy
  & well combined.  Add the dry ingredients alternately with the water,
  a little at a time, beating well after each addition.  Finally mix in
  the raisins. Bake in a large greased loaf pan for 45 minutes at 325F.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Shortening
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/3 c  Molasses
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Cloves
    1/4 ts Ginger
      1 pn Nutmeg
      1 pn Allspice
  1 1/4 c  Flour
 
  Beat shortening for 30 seconds.  Add sugar & beat till well blended.
  Add molasses & beat again for a few seconds.  Stir in the dry
  ingredients & spices in order, ensuring that they are well blended
  after each addition. Add flour a little at a time.  Mix thoroughly.
  
  Roll out dough till paper thin, you can do this in several batches.
  Cut with cookie cutters & place on greased cookie sheets.  Bake for 5
  to 6 minutes at 375F.
  
  Makes 60.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Bake Sweet Potatoes
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack, Vegetable, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Sweet potatoes
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/4 ts Turmeric
    1/4 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Ginger powder
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Pre-heat oven to 400F.  Wash & scrub potatoes, leaving the skins on.
  Cut the into sticks & set aside.
  
  Mix together spices & oil.  Add potato sticks to mixture & coat well.
  Lay onto a cookie sheet & bake for 30 to 40 minutes.  Stir them half
  way through cooking.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" October, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Black Beans
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Black beans, soaked
      1 ea Onion, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Grated ginger
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Coriander
      1 sm Fresh green chili, chopped
      2 ea Green bell peppers, diced
      8 oz Carrots, diced
      2 oz Roasted peanuts
      1 ea Orange, peeled & sliced
      1 tb Sherry
    1/2 ea Lemon, juiced
      1 ts Shoyu
 
  Drain beans.  Cover with fresh water, bring to a boil & boil fast for
  10 minutes.  Reduce heat & simmer, covered, for 20 minutes.  Drain,
  reserving the stock.
  
  Meanwhile, fry the onion & garlic in olive oil for 3 to 4 minutes.
  Put in the spices & for another 2 minutes, stirring.
  
  Add the drained beans, bell peppers, carrots, peanuts & sliced
  orange. Cook covered over a gentle heat for 10 minutes.  Stir
  occasionally.
  
  Mix in sherry, lemon juice & shoyu.   Add about 2 tb of reserved
  stock, but not too much as the curry should be dry not wet.  Cook,
  covered, for another 10 to 15 minutes.  Serve, garnished with extra
  orange slices.
  
  Sarah Brown's "Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Chick Peas
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Dried chick peas, soaked
      3 pt Water
      2 tb Oil
      2 md Onions, diced
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Coriander
      1 ts Fresh ginger, minced
      1 ts Cumin
      2 ea Red or green bell peppers
           -- diced
      4 tb Tomato paste
    1/2 pt Stock
           Lemon juice to atste
           Salt & pepper
 
  After soaking, drain the chick peas.  Cook in fresh water for 60
  minutes till tender, drain & reserve liquid.
  
  Heat oil in large skillet.  Fry gently the onion together with the
  spices for 5 to 7 minutes.  Add the bell peppers & chick peas.
  Dissolve tomato paste into the stock & add to the skillet.  Cook for
  10 minutes.  aste for seasonings.  Add lemon juice & salt & pepper.
  Serve over rice or pasta.
  
  Sarah Brown, "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Okra
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 lb Okra
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
 
  Mix cumin, turmeric, chili powder, salt & lemon juice in a small
  bowl. Add mustard & mix into a wet paste.  Cut stems off okra then
  split them three quarters of the way down.  Split them again,
  dividing pods into 4 equal parts that are held together at the narrow
  end tip.
  
  Pour al ittle of the paste in to the openings, spread it lightly all
  over but the narrow tip.  Sprinkle with salt.  Heat oil in a skillet
  & fry okra, covered, till tender, about 10 minutes, turning them once.
  
  Ismail Merchant, "Indian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Somerset Carrots
 Categories: Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Carrots, scrubbed
      1 oz Margarine
      3 oz Cider
      3 oz Water
      1 ts Rosemary
      1 ts Mustard powder
 
  Dice the carrots.  Melt the margarine in a small pot, add carrots &
  cook over a gentle heat for 5 minutes.  Pour in the cider & water.
  Add the rosemary & mustard.  Bring to a boil & simmer covered for 10
  minutes.  Add more liquid if necessary.  When the carrots are tender,
  put them in a warmed serving dish & continue to cook the sauce till
  it is thickened & syrupy.  Pour over the carrots & serve straight
  away.
  
  Sarah Brown "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Sweet Potatoes Ii.
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack, Vegetable, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Sweet potatoes
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Ginger powder
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Wash & scrub potatoes.  Cut into sticks & set aside.
  
  Mix together oil & spices.  Dip the potatoes into the mixture &
  spread onto a cookie sheet.  Bake at 400F for 30 to 40 minutes,
  stirring half way through cooking.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" October, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Vegetables
 Categories: Main dish, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes
      1 ea Broccoli head, include stem
      5 lg Carrots, sliced
      1 sm Cauliflower, chopped
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Ghee
 
  Depending on the size of the potatoes, either leave them whole or
  quarter them, but do not cut them too small.  Chop the broccoli,
  reserving the inner stem, but discarding the fibrous outside.  Chop
  the head.
  
  Over boiling water, steam the potatoes, broccoli stem, carrots &
  cauliflower.  After 10 minutes, add broccoli heads & steam until
  vegetables are just tender.
  
  In a heavy pot, saute the onions in the ghee till they are
  transparent. Mix in all the steamed vegetables except the broccoli.
  Cover & cook for 6 to 8 minutes, stirring often.  Add broccoli & cook
  for another 5 minutes. Serve with bread.
  
  "The Africa News Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Black Bean & Lentil Salad
 Categories: Salad
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked black beans
      2 c  Cooked red lentils
      1 ts Dry mustard
      3 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Fresh parsley, minced
    1/2 c  Rice vinegar
           Juice from 1 lemon
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Crushed red peppers
      1 sm Butterhead lettuce, torn
      2 lg Red bell peppers, sliced
      2 lg Red potatoes, cooked, sliced
    1/2 c  Grated carrots
 
  Put legumes in separate bowls.  Whisk together mustard, garlic,
  parsley, vinegar, lemon juice, salt, oil & red pepper.  Divide
  mixture evenly between legumes.  Marinate covered in the fridge for 1
  hour.
  
  Line salad plates with lettuce, top with peppers.  Arrange small
  piles of potatoes, carrots & legumes on each plate.  Drizzle marinade
  over the meal.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Bread
 Categories: Bread, German
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    300 g  Flour, wheat
    350 g  Flour, rye
    700 g  Leaven
     20 g  Salt
     20 g  Yeast, fresh
    300 cc Water, 40C
     10 g  Herbs of Provence
 
  Give the flour in a pot, mix well with herbes, add salt and yeast at
  different ends of the pot, add water while stirring, add leaven.
  Knead well during 5 min. Cover and let rest for 30 min. Knead well
  and form as you like. Cover and let rest 60 min. til it doubled its
  volume. Bake in preheated oven at 225C for 70 min. You can use
  single herbs (e.g. thyme) instead of h. of Provence. If you divide
  the paste in two parts the baking time would be 50 min.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Cauliflower with Braised Tomatoes
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Ghee
      1 ea 1" piece of ginger root
      2 ea Green chilies, minced
    1/2 ts Black mustard seeds
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 lg Caulflower into florets
      1 tb Coriander
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Salt
      3 ea Diced toamtoes
      1 ts Garam masala
      3 tb Minced coriander
 
  Heat ghee in a large casserole.  When hot, toss in the ginger,
  chilies, mustard & cumin seeds.  Fry till the mustard seeds start to
  pop.  Stir in the cauliflower, coriander, turmeric & salt.  Stir fry
  for a couple of minutes, till the cauliflower starts to turn brown.
  Then add the tomatoes. Cover, reduce heat to low.  Cook for 15
  minutes, stirring occasionally.
  
  Remove the lid & stir fry for a few minutes till the liquid has
  evaporated. Sprinkle with garam masala & coriander greens & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Eggplant-Miso Saute with Bulgur
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Bulgur
      3 c  Boiling water
    1/4 c  Miso
      3 tb Water
      1 tb Honey
      2 ts Sesame oil
      2 tb Safflower oil
      1 md Eggplant, peeled & diced
      1 ea Garlic clove
      1 ts Minced fresh ginger
    1/4 lb Pressed tofu, diced
      1 bn Green onions, sliced
    1/2 ts Hot red pepper flakes
 
  Place bulgur in a heat-proof serving dish.  Pour on boiling water &
  let stand while preparing the other ingredients.  Mix together miso,
  water, honey & sesame oil.  Set aside.  Heat oil in a wok & saute
  eggplant for 5 minutes, stirring.  Add garlic & ginger & saute for 2
  minutes.  Add tofu & saute for 5 minutes.  Add miso mixture & stir
  fry for 4 minutes.  Add onions & pepper flakes & cook till tender.
  
  Pour off any excess water from the bulgur.  Fluff with a fork & top
  with eggplant.  Serve immediately.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Eggplant in Ginger-Tamarind Sauce (Masala Vangi)
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    1/2-inch-round ball tamarind
    1/4 c  -Boiling water
      1 lb Thin, long eggplant
      3 tb Light vegetable oil
  1 1/2 ts Minced garlic
      2 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 c  Packed flaked coconut
           -- fresh or canned,
           -- unsweetened
      1 ts Cayenne pepper (or more)
    1/2 ts Coarse salt; or to taste
      2 tb Unsulphured molasses
           -OR- Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Black mustard seeds

MMMMM-------------------GINGER-TAMARIND SAUCE------------------------
           -Tamarind residue from above
    1/2 c  -Boiling water
    1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 tb Shredded fresh ginger
 
  Put the tamarind in a nonmetallic bowl.  Add 1/4 cup boiling water
  and let it soak for 30 minutes.  Mash the pulp and extract as much
  juice from it as possible.  Pour all liquid into a bowl, and save the
  fibrous residue for making the sauce.
  
  Slit the eggplants lengthwise to within 3/4 inch of the stem end so
  that each eggplant remains in one piece.
  
  Measure out the spices and place them right next to the stove in
  separate piles.  Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a large frying pan
  or skillet over medium-high heat for 1 minute.  Add the garlic and
  fry for 30 seconds. Add the coriander, cinnamon, and cloves; fry for
  15 more seconds. Stir in the coconut and cayenne pepper; continue
  frying, stirring, until lightly toasted (about 2 minutes).  Turn off
  the heat and stir in the salt, tamarind liquid, and molasses, and mix
  well.
  
  Stuff the eggplants with the spicy coconut mixture.  Secure them by
  wrapping thread around them.
  
  Heat the remaining 1 tablespoon oil in the same pan over medium-high
  heat. When it is hot, add mustard seeds.  Keep a pot lid handy, as
  the seeds may spatter and fly all over.  When the seeds stop
  spattering, add the eggplants in one layer.  Fry the eggplants,
  turning them often, for 3 or 4 minutes.  Reduce heat to medium or
  medium low and cook them, covered, for 10 to 12 minutes or until they
  are soft and cooked through.  Turn off heat. Transfer them to a
  serving platter, pour Ginger-Tamarind sauce over them, and serve
  immediately.
  
  GINGER-TAMARIND SAUCE: Put tamarind residue in a nonmetallic bowl,
  add 1/2 cup boiling water, and let soak for 30 minutes.  Mash the
  residue and extract as much tamarind essence as possible, squeezing
  it hard, into a bowl.  Discard the fibrous residue.
  
  Put tamarind water in a nonmetallic pan along with cornstarch, mix
  well and bring to a boil.  Cook for 2 minutes.  Turn off heat and
  stir in ginger shreds.
  
  Note: For a hotter flavor, stir 4 chopped hot green chilies into
  sauce.
  
  Source: Classic Indian Vegetarian and Grain Cooking, by Julie Sahni
  Typos by: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Ginger Sauce (For Noodles)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian, Pasta, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Rice vinegar
  1 1/2 tb Low-sodium soy sauce
      1 tb Oriental sesame oil
      2 ts Minced peeled fresh ginger
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Chili oil; -OR-
    1/4 ts -Dried crushed red pepper
      2    Green onions; thinly sliced
      1    Carrot; peeled, shredded
    1/2    Cucumber
           -- peeled, seeded, chopped
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
 
  [Asian accents make this a perfect partner for Japanese noodles, such
  as udon (use about 12 ounces, dry weight).  Serve the finished pasta
  well chilled.]
  
  Whisk all ingredients to blend in large bowl.  Refrigerate.
  
  Source: Richard Sax and Marie Simmons - Bon Appetit, September 1991
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Hot Sichuan Tofu
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------SAUCE MIXTURE----------------------------
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 ts Sugar
      2    Garlic cloves (or more)
           -- minced
      1 tb Hot Bean Paste
      1 tb Sherry
    1/2 ts Sichuan Peppercorn powder
           -- (amount may be doubled)
      1 tb Red hot pepper oil (or more)
      3 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Soy sauce
           Salt & pepper; to taste

MMMMM---------------------OTHER INGREDIENTS--------------------------
      1 lb Tofu (firm or soft); diced
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Corn or canola oil
      1 tb Minced ginger root
    1/4 lb Fresh mushrooms; chopped
    1/4 c  Water chestnuts, chopped
      3    Green onions (or more)
           -- minced
 
  Mix sauce ingredients together in a small bowl.  Set aside.
  
  Heat oil in a nonstick pan or wok; brown ginger root.  Add tofu and 1
  tablespoon soy sauce; stir gently and occasionally for 2 minutes.
  
  Add chopped mushrooms and water chestnuts; stir gently for 2 minutes.
  
  Add minced green onions and sauce mixture and stir for 1 minute.
  Serve hot.
  
  Per serving: Calories: 153 Fat: 11 gm (saturated fat = 8%)
  Carbohydrates: 8 gm             Cholesterol: 0 mg Protein: 8 gm
  Sodium: 237 mg Fiber: 2 gm Calcium: 95 mg
  
  Source: Nutritional Cooking with Tofu, by Christine Y.C. Liu, M.P.H.
  Typos by: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Lentil Stew (Yemiser W'et)
 Categories: Main dish, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Lentils
      1 c  Onions, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
    1/4 c  Ghee
      1 tb Berbere
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 tb Sweet Hungarian paprika
      2 c  Tomatoes, chopped
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
      1 c  Vegetable stock
      1 c  Green peas, fresh or frozen
           Salt & pepper
 
  Rinse & cook lentils.  when done, drain & set aside.  Reserve stock
  for later in the recipe.
  
  Saute onions & garlic in the ghee till onions are just translucent.
  Add berbere, cumin & paprika.  Saute for a few minutes longer,
  stirring occasionally to prevent anything from burning.  Mix in
  tomatoes & tomato paste.  Simmer 10 minutes.  Add stock & continue
  simmering.
  
  When lentils are cooked, mix them into the saute.  Add green peas &
  cook another 5 minutes.  Add salt & pepper to taste.
  
  Serve with Injera bread or pita bread.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Mixed Vegetable Stew (Yetakelt W'et)
 Categories: Main dish, Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Finely chopped onions
      2 ea Garlic cloves, pressed
      1 tb Berbere
      1 tb Hungarian paprika
    1/4 c  Ghee
      1 c  Green beans, sliced
      1 c  Carrots, chopped
      1 c  Potatoes, cubed
      1 c  Tomatoes, chopped
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
      2 c  Vegetable stock
           Salt & pepper
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley
 
  Saute onions, garlic, berbere & paprika in ghee for 2 minutes.  Add
  beans, carrots & potatoes.  Saute for 10 minutes, stirring
  occasionally to prevent burning.  Add tomatoes, tomato paste & stock.
  Bring to a boil, cover & simmer for 15 minutes or until the
  vegetables are tender.
  
  Add salt & pepper to taste & mix in the parsley.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Spinach
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Chopped fresh spinach
      3 md Turnips, cubed
      2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Ghee
      1 tb Black mustard seeds
      1 lg Onion, chopepd
      6 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ea 1" piece ginger, chopped
      1 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Red chilies
      1 tb Garam masala
           Salt
 
  Boil spinach & turnips in water for 12 to 15 minutes.  remove & set
  in a bowl.  Mash with a fork.  Rinse the pot & heat the ghee.  Add
  mustard seeds & a few seconds later add the onion, garlic & ginger.
  Cook til lthe onion is browned.  Add turmeric, chili, garam masala &
  salt.  Stir in the mashed vegetables.  Cover & simmer for 5 minutes
  until all the liquid has evaporated, stirring occasionally.  Serve.
  
  Rani, "Feast of India"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Stewed Cauliflower & Potatoes
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 lg Potatoes, cubed
      1 ts Cayenne
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Turmeric
      1 md Cauliflower, cut into floret
      1 ea Green chili, seeded, sliced
      1 ea Dry red chili, seeded, crush
 
  Heat oil in large pot over medium low heat.  Add onion & cook till it
  turns brown, stirring occasionally.  Stir in potatoes & cook till
  they begin to brown.  Stir frequently.  Add cayenne, lemon, salt &
  turmeric. Cook for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add cauliflower & chilies & stir
  well.  Add about 1/4 c water.  Continue to cook till the vegetables
  are tender, adding more water if necessary.
  
  Adapted from Ismail Merchant, "Indian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Szechuan Tofu
 Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 oz Soft tofu
      2 tb Oil
      1 ts Minced fresh ginger
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
      3 tb Chopped scallions
      1 tb Szechuan hot bean paste
      1 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Stock
    1/2 tb Cornstarch dissolved in 2
           -- tb water
      1 ts Sesame oil
      2 dr Hot chili oil
    1/4 ts Szechuan peppercorn powder
 
  Drain & rinse tofu.  Drain again.  Cut into 1 inch square pieces.
  Set wok over high flame & add oil.  When hot, add ginger, garlic & 2
  tb scallions, cook for 30 seconds.  Add hot bean paste & tofu.  Stir
  gently.  Add tamari, salt, sugar & stock, bring to a full boil.
  Thicken with cornstarch.  Add sesame oil, chili oil & peppercorn
  powder.  Sprinkle with remaining scallions & serve with brown rice.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Tofu Pate
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Tofu (fresh)
    1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/4 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Molasses
    1/2 ts Ground fennel
      1    Garlic clove; -OR-
      2 ts -Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Savory
    1/4 ts Powdered sage
    1/2 ts Allspice
      2 ts Oregano
      2 ts Dijon mustard, more to taste
           -(or any prepared mustard)
 
  Mash tofu in a large bowl. Add remaining ingredients, mix well with
  fork or by hand. Pack into small oiled casserole dish; cover with two
  or three paper towels. Steam 25 to 35 minutes on a rack inside a
  covered pot with water on stove or in a pan of water in the oven at
  375 degrees. Top will brown slightly. Cool before removing from dish.
  Steaming blends flavors. Stores up to two weeks in fridge. Makes 2.5
  cups.
  
  JTK's notes: I accidently used wheat bran instead of germ, and it
  still worked (kind of dry, though). I made this in a 2-qt. porcelain
  souffle dish, which it filled approx. 2/3. I didn't have savory so I
  substituted fresh thyme. As usual, I added more garlic & hot sauce.
  Mash tofu very well, or you will have lots of tofu lumps --- I think
  I might try blending this in the food processor next time, to avoid
  this problem. This was enough for maybe 4 days of lunches for me
  (pate on 4-5 Wasa breads/rice cakes per day).
  
  (vegan) --- from the net, don't know authorship (sorry).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach & Lentil Soup
 Categories: Greek, Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Spinach, washed & drained
      1 c  Lentils
           A few bay leaves
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 bn Green onions, sliced
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
    1/2 ts Cumin powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pn Black pepper
           Water/stock as required
 
  Chop the washed spinach.  Boil lentils in 4 cups water with bay leaves
  until they are soft.  Heat oil in a pot & gently fry the green onions
  for 2 minutes.  Add garlic & seasonings.  Add spinach.  Mix well &
  put in cooked lentils.  Add another pint of water or stock & cook for
  a further 15 minutes.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Ball Curry
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Spinach
      2 md Potatoes
      1 c  Chick pea flour
      3 tb Soy milk or cream
      1 ts Salt
      1 pn Turmeric
    1/2 ts Garam masala
    1/2 ts Green mango powder
    1/2 ts Cayenne
           Ghee to deep fry
           Dried coconut
  1 1/4 c  Gravy, see recipe
           Chopped cilantro
 
  Boil spinach & potatoes.  Drain, peel potatoes & grind with the
  spinach. Add chick pea flour & blend.  Stir on milk or cream.  Add
  salt, turmeric, garam masala, mango powder (omit if you want) &
  cayenne.  Mix together till you have a smooth dough.  pluck off small
  pieces & shape into a ball or any other shape you might desire.
  
  Heat sufficient ghee in a wok or deep skillet.  Roll each ball in
  coconut & deep fry till completely golden.  Remove & place on a plate.
  
  Heast gravy in a pot over medium heat.  Drop in the koftas, cover,
  lower heat & cook for 10 minutes.
  
  Garnish with coriander & serve.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Cooked in a Bihari Style
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh spinach
           - washed and trimmed
    1/2 ts Freshly grated fresh ginger
      1    Garlic clove; mashed
    1/2 ts Minced fresh hot green chili
           -(very finely minced)
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Very finely minced cilantro
      2 tb Mustard oil
 
  This dish, traditionally made with mixed greens such as spinach and
  mustard, resembles an Italian pesto, though it is much thicker in
  consistency.  In place of olive oil, mustard oil is used, and apart
  from the taste of the greens themselves, the other strong flavors
  include raw garlic, raw ginger, green chilis, and cilantro.  If you
  can't obtain the pungent golden mustard oil which is called for in
  this recipe (available in Chinese as well as Indian groceries), steep
  1/2 teaspoon powdered dried mustard in 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil.
  
  In Northern India, this dish is eaten at room temperature for
  breakfast, along with fried bread and tea.  While raw garlic may seem
  alarming first thing in the morning, Indians consider it a medicinal
  necessity, and many swallow a crushed clove every day.
  
  DIRECTIONS: ========== Bring 4 quarts of water to a rolling boil in a
  large pot.  Add spinach and cook on high heat for 1 to 2 minutes, or
  until wilted.  Drain, rinse under cold water, and squeeze out as much
  liquid as you can easily.
  
  Put spinach in food processor or blender with 2 tablespoons water and
  blend until smooth.  This will result in a fairly thick paste.  Put
  in a serving bowl.
  
  Whisk together ginger, garlic, green chili, salt, cilantro, and oil.
  Pour this dressing over the spinach and mix thoroughly.
  
  Source: (C) 1981 Madhur Jaffrey The Herb Companion - February/March
  1993 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Mushroom Lasagna
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Vegetable oil
  2 1/2 tb Tahini
      1 tb Light miso
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 lg Garlic cloves, pressed
           Black pepper to taste
      1 ts Nutmeg
      2 ts Tarragon
      2 ts Dill
      8 oz Mushrooms
      8 oz Spinach
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley
      4 tb Breadcrumbs, toasted
    1/2 c  Walnuts
      4 c  Tomato sauce
      9 ea Lasagna noodles, al dente
 
  Blend tofu in processor.  Add salt, lemon juice, vegetable oil,
  tahini & miso.  Blend till thoroughly smooth.  Set aside.
  
  Heat olive oil.  Add onion & saute till translucent.  Add garlic,
  pepper, nutmeg, tarragon, dill & mushrooms.  Saute for several
  minutes.  Stir in chopped spinach & parsley.  Saute very briefly.
  Remove from heat.  Add the saute to tofu mixture.  Blend briefly.  Be
  sure to maintain the texture.
  
  Pre-heat oven to 350F.  Lightly oil the bottom & sides of a baking
  dish. Add 2 to 3 tb of breadcrumbs & ensure that the dish is evenly
  coated. Sprinkle 1/3 of walnuts on bottom of dish, followed by 1/4 of
  the tomato sauce.  Lay 3 noodles on top of the sauce & evenly spread
  half the tofu mixture on the noodles.  Repeat a second layer.  Then
  top with remaining walnuts, noodles & sauce. Sprinkle the rest of the
  breadcrumbs on top,
  
  Cover & bake for 30 minutes.  Uncover & bake another 10 minutes.
  Cool for 20 to 30 minutes before slicing.
  
  Source Unknown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Mushroom Pie
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Oil
      3 c  White flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  TVP granules or flakes
    7/8 c  Boiling water
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Fennel seeds
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Sliced mushrooms
     10 oz Box frozen, chopped spinach,
           -- thawed & drained
      6 oz Can tomato paste
    1/4 c  Water
           Soymilk or oil for brushing
           -- top crust
 
  DOUGH:  In a large bowl, mix together yeast, water & sugar.  Let
  stand for 5 minutes.  Add oil, flour & salt.  Knead about 5 minutes
  into a smooth, elastic ball of dough.  Cover & let rise till doubled
  in size. Punch down. Roll out 2/3 of the dough into a 12 inch circle
  & fit it into a 10 inch springform pan, patting it up the sides. Set
  aside.  Reserve the remaining dough.
  
  FILING:  Mix together the TVP, boiling water, oregano, basil &
  fennel.  In a large skillet, heat olive oil.  Saute TVP mixture for a
  few minutes. Stir in mushrooms, spinach, tomato paste & water.  Heat
  through.
  
  Prejeat oven to 375F.  Spread filling onto the dough.  Roll remaining
  dough into a 10 inch circle & cut into 8 wedges.  Arrange the wedges
  on top of the filling, overlapping slightly, sealing the wide ends to
  the bottom crust.  Brush the top with a little soymilk.  Bake for 30
  to 35 minutes.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" February, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Puree
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh spinach, cleaned
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 md Garlic clove, minced
      1 ea Black pepper to taste
 
  Cook the spinach without added water in a covered pot fro just a few
  minutes - until tender & very bright green.
  
  Transfer to a blender & with 1/4 cup water, puree till very smooth.
  Place in a small bowl.  Thin to desired consistency & season with
  garlic, salt & pepper.  Serve on cold pasta or on hot baked potatoes.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" April, 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sprout, Bean & Vegetable Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Yellow lentils
    1/3 ts Turmeric
      1 lb Brussels sprouts
    1/4 lb Green beans, sliced
      1 tb Tamarind paste
      3 tb Light vegetable oil
    3/4 ts Black mustard seeds
    1/4 ts Fenugreek seeds
      2 ts Chopped garlic
      1 tb Sambaar powder
      2 ts Salt
      2 tb Coriander leaves, chopped
 
  Wash lentils.  Put in a large pot with turmeric & 4 cups of water.
  Bring to a boil, reduce heat & simmer, partially covered, for 30
  minutes.  Add another 3/4 cups water & continue to simmer for another
  30 minutes.  Stir often to prevent burning.  You should have a stiff
  puree.  Set aside.
  
  While lentils are cooking, wash vegetables & dry.  Prepare sprouts as
  you would for any cooking.  Heat oil in a deep saucepan & when very
  hot, add mustard seeds.  After 15 seconds, add fenugreek.  Then add
  garlic & sambaar powder.  Stir for a moment & add sprouts & beans.
  Fry the vegetables, turning & tossing them for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add
  tamarind paste, salt & 1/4 cup warm water.  Reduce heat & cook,
  covered, for 20 minutes. Add lentils to the vegetables.  Cook for
  another 10 to 15 minutes, or until the vegetables are completely
  cooked. Stir in coriander & serve with plain cooked rice.
  
  Julie Sahni, "Classic Indian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stewed Eggplant
 Categories: Indian, Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      4 ea Bay leaves crumbled
      1 lg Eggplant
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 3/4 c  Canned tomatoes
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds, bruised
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Heat oil in a skillet, add onion & bay leaves & cook 4 to 5 minutes,
  stirring occasionally.  Meanwhile, peel the eggplant, slice it then
  dice. Add pieces to skillet.  Add rest of the ingredients.  Raise
  heat till mixture begins to simmer then cover, reduce heat & simmer
  20 minutes til the eggplant is very tender.
  
  Ismail Merchant, "Indian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir Fry with Black Bean Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb Fermented black beans
      1 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Grated ginger root
    1/4 c  Sherry/vegetable stock
    1/3 c  Thinly sliced onions
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 c  Sliced bok choy
    1/2 c  Julienned red pepper
      1 c  Napa cabbage, sliced
      1 ts Honey
      1 ts Tamari sauce
      1 ts Cornstarch & 2 ts water
      1 c  Cooked brown rice
 
  SAUCE:  Mash together the beans, garlic & ginger root in a mortar &
  pestle. Set aside.
  
  STIR FRY:  In a wok, heat sherry/stock to simmering.  Add onion &
  stir for 3 minutes.  Add garlic, bok choy, pepper & cabbage.  Cover &
  steam for 5 minutes.  Add honey, tamari & dissolved cornstarch.  Cook
  & stir till sauce thickens slightly.  Remove from heat & stir in 1 tb
  black bean sauce. Serve over rice.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" September, 1990
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Vegetables with Tofu
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Sesame oil
      2 md Green bell peppers, diced
      1 lg Celery stalk, diagonally
           -- sliced
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
  1 1/2 c  Mung bean sprouts
      2 bn Scallions, chopped
    1/4 c  Toasted sunflower seeds
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      2 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Grated ginger
      3 ea Cakes of tofu, diced
           Chinese noodles
 
  Heat oil in wok.  When hot, add bell peppers, celery & garlic.  Stir
  fry over moderate heat till celery is half cooked.  Add bean sprouts,
  scallions & sunflower seeds.  Stir fry just till sprouts are wilted.
  Rest of the vegetables should be tender crisp.
  
  Add rest of ingredients & reduce heat.  Saute another 2 minutes.
  Serve over grains or noodles.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Bean Curd with Green Beans in Hot Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 oz Green beans
  1 1/2    Cakes bean curd
      3    Garlic cloves
  3 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Hoisin sauce
    1/2 tb Yellow bean sauce (paste)
      2 ts Chili sauce
      2 ts Oil (Chinese chili oil opt.)
      1 tb Tomato paste
 
  Trim the green beans and cut each one in half.  Boil them in ample
  water for 2 minutes and drain well.  Cut the bean curd into 3/4-inch
  cubes. Crush and chop the garlic.
  
  Heat the oil in a frying pan or wok.  When hot, add the garlic, salt,
  and green beans.  Stir-fry over medium heat for 2-1/2 minutes.  Add
  the bean curd pieces and turn them lightly with the beans for 1-1/2
  minutes.  Pour in all the sauce ingredients.  Turn and stir them
  together for 1 minute. Cook and turn for 1-1/2 minutes and serve.
  
  Serves 4-5 with rice and other dishes.
  
  Source: New Chinese Vegetarian Cooking, by Kenneth Lo Typos by: Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry & Apple Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    500 g  Strawberries
      3 lg Green apples
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 c  Water
      1 kg Sugar, warmed
 
  Wash, hull & half the strawberries.  Peel, core & quarter the apples.
  Ten cut quarters into thin slices.  Put all the ingredients, except
  the sugar, into a large pot.  Cover & bring to a boil.  Simmer until
  the fruit is tender.  Add warmed sugar & stir till it has dissolved.
  Increase heat, stirring frequently & cook till setting point is
  reached.
  
  Remove from heat & let stand for 5 minutes.  Pour into warm sterile
  jars & seal.
  
  Letts, "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Conserve
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    500 g  Strawberries
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Wash & drain fruit, then remove stalks.  Cover friuit with 1/2 cup of
  sugar & stand overnight.
  
  Strain liquid from strawberries.  Place in pot, add remaining sugar &
  stir over low heat for 10 minutes.  Do not allow to boil.  Add fruit
  & cook till setting point is reached, about 20 to 30 minutes.  Ladle
  into warm sterile jars.
  
  Letts "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Liqueur Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    500 g  Strawberries
      1 md Green apple
           Juice of 1 lime
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Grand marnier
 
  Wash & hull strawberries.  Peel, core & finely chop apple.  Add lime
  juice & let stand covered for 30 minutes.  Microwave the fruit &
  juice for 4 minutes on high.  Add sugar, stir & microwave 35 minutes
  on high, stirring every 10 minutes.  Stand five minutes, pour into
  warm sterile jars.  Seal.
  
  Letts, "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Cucumber Rings
 Categories: Appetizer, Side dish, Vegetarian, Chicken
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Eggplants
           A little oil
      1 oz Flaked almonds
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
           Salt & pepper
      1    Cucumber
      1    Lettuce
      1 lb Tomatoes, sliced
           Lemon wedges
           Parsley sprigs
 
  Preheat oven to 400F/200C.
  
  Slice eggplants in half & rub oil lightly over the skin.  Place face
  down on a greased tray & bake 1 hour.  Leave to cool.  Scoop out the
  insides & blend with the almonds, onion, garlic & parsley.  Season
  well & chill thoroughly.
  
  Cut cumcumber into 8 x 1 inch rounds.  Scoop out the middle of each
  round to form a small case, be careful not to cut all the way
  through.  Either leave the cases raw or blanch in boiling water for 5
  minutes.  Fill cucumber chunks with the eggplant pate.
  
  Line a serving platter with lettuce & edge this with tomato slices.
  Put cucumber cases in the centre & garnish with lemon & parsley.
  
  Sarah Brown, "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Eggplant
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Eggplants
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 lg Onion, diced
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 c  Mushrooms, sliced
      1 c  Bulgur wheat
    3/4 c  Vegetable stock
      1 ts Oregano
           Salt & pepper
 
  Cut eggplants in half & scoop out pulp.  Leave 1/2" skin.  Place
  shells in shallow baking dish.  Dice pulp.
  
  Saute onions in oil till tender, don't brown.  Add cubed eggplant
  pulp & cook till tender.  Add garlic, mushrooms & bulgur.  Cook for 3
  minutes, stirring often.  Add stock & rest of the ingredients.  Bring
  to a boil, cover & simmer for 20 minutes or till moisture is absorbed.
  
  Spoon into prepared shells.  Drizzle a little more olive oil over the
  top if desired & pour 1/2 c water into baking dish.  Bake at 350F for
  40 minutes.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Green Peppers
 Categories: Greek, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 ea Green peppers
      1 c  Olive oil
      2 ea Onions, chopped
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      1 ts Marjoram
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      4 ea Tomatoes, chopped
      2 c  Cooked rice
      2 tb Chopped walnuts
 
  Wash peppers & cut off & retain the tops.  Remove seed & pulp &
  discard. Heat oil in a pan & gently fry the onion for 2 minutes.
  Sprinkle on the herbs & salt & pepper.  Add tomatoes & fry together
  for 2 minutes.  Add cooked rice & nuts & fry together for 2 minutes.
  
  Fill each pepper with the cooked filling.  Place on a baking sheet &
  put on the caps.  Pour a little oil on each & bake at 375F until the
  peppers are browned.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Grape Leaves
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Appetizer, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      5 c  Chopped mushrooms
      1 tb Dried parsley or to taste
    1/4 ts Black pepper or to taste
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper or to taste
    1/4 ts Turmeric or to taste
      1 c  Cooked yellow split peas
      2 c  Cooked white or brown rice
      1    16-oz jar grape leaves
      1 c  Water
 
  In a skillet, heat oil and saute onion and mushrooms until soft. Add
  parsley and spices. Tranfer to a bowl. Mix in peas and rice. Preheat
  oven to 350 degrees. Line a 3-quart baking dish with a few grape
  leaves to keep stuffed leaves from sticking and burning. Place 1
  heaping tablespoon of rice mixture (more or less depending on size of
  leaf) in the center of a grape leaf. Fold in sides, then roll leaf
  from stem to tip. Place in casserole. Repeat procedure with remaining
  grape leaves until rice mixture is used up. Pour water in bottom of
  dish (to prevent sticking and drying out). Bake for 25 minutes.
  Serves 12 as an appetizer, 6 as an entree. Per appetizer serving: 91
  cal.; 3g prot.; 2.5g fat; 14g carb.; 0 chol.; 94mg sod. From
  _Vegetarian Times_, March 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Grape Leaves - Yalanchi Sarma
 Categories: Misc/food, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 qt Water
      8 oz Preserved grape leaves
           - stems removed
      1 c  Cooked rice
      1 md Onion; grated
      2 tb Fresh parsley, minced
      2    Tomatoes; finely chopped
      1 ts Dried mint
    1/2 ts Allspice
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1    Lemon, juiced
           -water (as needed)
 
  In a medium saucepan place the water and bring it to a boil.  Remove
  the pan from the heat and add the grape leaves.  Let the grape leaves
  sit in the hot water for 10 minutes.  Remove them from the water and
  set them aside.
  
  In a medium bowl, place the cooked rice, onions, parsley, tomatoes,
  dried mint, allspice, and garlic.  Mix the ingredients together well.
  Let the mixture sit for 2 hours.
  
  In the center of each grape leaf place a small amount of the rice
  mixture. Fold the bottom of the grape leaf up and the sides over.
  Roll the grape leaf up.
  
  Line the bottom of a large saucepan with some of the grape leaves.
  Place the rolled grape leaves on top, seam side down, so that they
  are tightly packed.
  
  Sprinkle on the lemon juice.  Add enough water to cover the rolled
  grape leaves.  Place an oven-proof plate on top of the rolled grape
  leaves to press them down.  Cover the pot and bring the liquid to a
  boil over high heat.  Reduce the heat to low and simmer the rolled
  grape leaves for 45 to 60 minutes, or until most of the water is
  absorbed.  Let them sit for 1 hour before serving.
  
  Source: Papa Garo's - Redondo Beach, California "Southern California
  Beach Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Mushroom Caps
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian, Chicken
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     10 lg Mushrooms
      1 ts Cold-pressed olive oil
    1/4    Onion; finely chopped
      3 lg Garlic cloves
           - finely chopped
    1/4 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 sl Whole wheat bread
           -made into crumbs in blender
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 tb Natural soy sauce
      1 tb Sherry
 
  1.  Preheat the oven to 350 F.  Gently clean the mushrooms with a damp
  cloth.  Remove the stems and chop them finely.
  
  2.  Heat the oil (or water) in a skillet.  Add the onion and cook
  until golden.  Add the garlic and cook 1 minute more. Add the chopped
  mushroom stems, basil, oregano, and parsley, and cook 5 minutes,
  stirring, occasionally.  Add the bread crumbs, petter, soy sauce, and
  sherry, and heat, stirring for 2 minutes. Add additional salt and
  pepper if needed.
  
  3.  Place the mushroom caps, open side up, in a lightly oiled baking
  dish. Fill each cap with the bread crumb mixture, forming a mound
  with your fingers.
  
  4.  Bake for 15 minutes and serve hot.
  
  "The High Road to Health" by Lindsey Wagner and Ariane Spade.
  
  FROM:    LISA DEBOVSKI   (NDTK86B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Okra
 Categories: Vegetable, Indian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh okra, washed & dried
      2 tb Whole coriander seeds,
           - coarsely crushed
      1 tb Whole cumin seeds
           - coarsely crushed
      2 ts Fennel seeds
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Garam masala
    1/4 ts Cayenne
    1/8 ts Asafetida
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Ground almonds
    1/2 tb Lemon juice
      5 tb Ghee
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Slice the stems off the okra & the very tip at the other end.  Slit
  each pod lengthwise, leaving 1/4-inch unslit at both ends.  Be
  careful not to cut the pods completely in half.
  
  Combine the crushed coriander, cumin & fennel seeds with the balck
  pepper, garam masala, cayenne, asafetida, almonds, lemon juice & 2 tb
  of ghee. Blend well, using your fingers if necessary till you have a
  dry oatmeal type texture.
  
  Using a butter knife, put about a 1/4 ts of the stuffing into each
  okra pod, then press the edges closed & set aside covered till you
  are ready to cook.
  
  Place the rest of the ghee in a large skillet & heat till hot.  Add
  the stuffed okra pods & spread out in one layer.  Keeping the heat
  moderate, cook for 5 minutes, covered.  Gently turn the okra to
  ensure even cooking. Continue this for 20 to 25 minutes or until the
  okra is completely cooked.
  
  Place the okra on paper towels & toss with salt.  Serve piping hot.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sunny Splits Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Green split peas
    1/2 c  Yellow split peas
    1/2 c  Red lentils
      6 c  -Water
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds
      1    Onion
      2    Celery stalks; sliced
      3    Carrots; sliced
      3 md Sunchokes; cut in 1" chunks
           -(Jerusalem Artichokes)
    1/2 ts Salt
           Black pepper; to taste
 
  Rinse peas and lentils.  Soak beans in 6 cups water up to 8 hours.
  Using the same soaking water, bring the beans to a boil and skim off
  any foam that accumulates.  Add caraway, onion, celery, carrots.
  Reduce heat and simmer, covered, for 40 minutes.  Add the sunchokes,
  and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer an additional 10 minutes until
  sunchokes are crisp-tender.
  
  Nutritional Information Per Serving:  Protein - 14 grams (25%);
  Carbohydrates - 39.5 grams (72%); Fat - .5 grams (3%); Calories - 212;
  Sodium - 213 mg.; Cholesterol - 0 mg.  Exchanges: 2 starch/bread, 2
  veg.
  
  These recipes are from the back of "The Whole Story" a publication of
  the Whole Foods Market... (March/April Issue)
  
  Shared by Linda Martin
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Super Sweet and Sour Tempeh
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           ----------TEMPEH------------
    1/2 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Coriander, ground
      1 ea Garlic clove, minced
      1 pk Tempeh, cubed
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
           Oil for deep frying
           -----Sweet & Sour Sauce-----
      1 tb Oil
      1 ea Onion, chopped
  1 1/4 c  Water
  2 1/2 tb Honey
      4 ts Soy sauce
      1 tb White vinegar
      1 tb Tahini
    1/2 ts Grated ginger
      1 ea Green onion, sliced
      2 tb Cornstarch
 
  Mix water*, salt (reduce if you want), coriander & garlic in a bowl.
  Dip tempeh chunks into bowl & then coat with cornstarch.  Deep fry in
  hot oil till golden brown.  Drain on paper towels & set aside.
  
  SAUCE: Heat oil in skillet & saute onion for 4 to 5 minutes.  Add
  water, honey, soy sauce, vinegar, tahini, ginger & green onion.
  Bring to a boil. Dissolve cornstarch in 2 tb water & stir into sauce.
  Stir till thickened. Place tempeh chunks into the sauce & cook
  briefly over low heat till heated through.  Serve over rice or pasta.
  Great hot or cold.
  
  * I usually save the mixture that I've used to dip the tempeh chunks
  & add enough water to make up to 1/2 cup.
  
  Adapted from Frances Moore Lappe, "Diet for a Small Planet".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet & Sour Lentils with Brown Rice
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Dry lentils
      3 c  Water
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Honey
      1 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Grated ginger
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 sm Onion, sliced
      2 tb Oil
      4 ea Celery sliced diagonally
 
  Bring water to a boil & cook lentils for 25 minutes.  Drain & set
  aside. combine vinegar, honey, tamari, ginger & water.  Bring to a
  boil.  mix cornstarch with a little water & add to sauce.  Saute
  onion in oil till soft.  Add pieces of celery & cook for 5 minutes
  over medium heat.  Add lentils, mix well.  Add sauce, simmer 5
  minutes.  Serve over rice.
  
  "Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Pickled Carrots
 Categories: Can/preserv, Vegetable, Holiday
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 lb Carrots; peeled
      1 c  Sugar
      2 c  Vinegar
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      1    Cinnamon stick
      1 tb Mixed pickling spice
 
  Serve these sweet-and-sour nibbles as cocktail food or give jars of
  them to friends.
  
  Cook carrots in boiling water until crisp-tender. Drain. Cut carrots
  into 3-inch-long sticks and pack upright in small hot sterilized
  jars. Combine sugar, vinegar, water and salt in saucepan. Tie
  cinnamon stick and pickling spice in cheesecloth bag and add to
  vinegar mixture. Boil 5 to 8 minutes. Fill jars with boiling syrup,
  leaving 1/2-inch head space. Adjust lids and process in boiling water
  bath 30 minutes.
  
  (C) 1992 The Los Angeles Times
  
  Posted by Karen Mintzias in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Appetizer, Chicken
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Sweet potato, diced, peeled
      3    Carrots, chopped
      1 lg Celery stalk, chopped
      1    Bay leaf
      6 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Hungarian sweet paprika
 
  Put all vegetables with the bay leaf in a soup pot.  Add water &
  bring to a boil.  Simmer for about one hour.  Stir occasionally.
  
  Just befroe serving, add lemon juice & paprika.  Remove bay leaf.
  
  Joel Rapp, "Mother Earth's Vegetarian Feasts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Syrian Noodles with Lentils
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Misc/food
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ea Onion, chopped
      3 ea Garlic cloves, pressed
      2 ts Roasted cumin seeds, ground
      1 ts Roasted coriander, ground
      2 sm Cayenne peppers
      2 c  Lentils, washed
      1 ea Bay leaf
      7 c  Water
           Salt & pepper
      4 oz Broken vermicelli
 
  Heat oil in a large casserole.  Saute onion & garlic until the onion
  is tender.  Add cumin & coriander.  Saute for another minute over
  medium heat.
  
  Add cayenne pepper, lentils, bay leaf & water.  Bring to a boil.  Add
  salt & pepper to taste, cover, reduce heat & simmer for 45 minutes.
  Simmer only until the lentils are just tender.  Adjust seasonings.
  
  Just before serving, bring back to a simmer & add the noodles.  Cook
  until al dente, about 4 to 10 minutes.  Serve at once in bowls.
  
  In place of vermicelli, use wholewheat spaghetti noodles or macaroni.
  
  Martha Rose Shulman, "Spicy Vegetarian Feasts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tabouleh (Burghul and Parsley Salad)
 Categories: Misc/food, Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Fine burghul
      2 c  Cold water
      2 c  Chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Finely chopped spring onions
    1/4 c  Finely chopped mint
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2    Firm ripe tomatoes
           Crisp lettuce leaves
    1/4 c  Lemon juice; mixed with:
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Place burghul in a bowl and cover with the cold water.  Leave to soak
  for 30 minutes.  Drain through a fine sieve, pressing with back of a
  spoon to extract moisture.  Spread onto a cloth and leave to dry
  further.
  
  Meanwhile, prepare parsley.  Wash well, shake off excess moisture and
  remove thick stalks.  Wrap in a tea towel and place in refrigerator to
  crisp and dry.
  
  Put burghul into a mixing bowl and add spring onions.  Squeeze
  mixture with hand so that burghul absorbs onion flavour.
  
  Chop parsley fairly coarsley, measure and add to burghul with mint.
  
  Beat olive oil with lemon juice and stir in salt and pepper.  Add to
  salad and toss well.
  
  Peel and seed tomatoes and cut into dice.  Gently stir into salad.
  Cover and chill for at least 1 hour before serving.
  
  Serve in salad bowl lined with crisp lettuce leaves.  Lemon juice and
  salt mixture is served in a jug so that it may be added according to
  individual taste.
  
  Serves 6-8
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook, by Tess Mallos Typed for
  you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tabouli Herb Salad
 Categories: Misc/food, Appetizer, Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Olive oil
      3    Lemons, juiced
           Salt (to taste)
           Pepper (to taste)
    2/3 c  #1 bulgur
           -(the finest grain possible)
  1 1/2 bn Parsley; finely chopped
      2 tb Fresh mint, chopped
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      2    Tomatoes; finely chopped
      1 bn Scallions; minced
    1/2    Onion; grated
      1    Green bell pepper; seeded
           - and finely chopped
    1/2    Head romaine lettuce,
           - washed, dried, and
           -  leaves separated.
 
  In a small bowl place the olive oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper.
  Whisk the ingredients together.  Set the dressing aside.
  
  Place the bulgur in a strainer and rinse it with cold water.  Squeeze
  out the excess water.
  
  In a medium bowl place the bulgur, parsley, mint, garlic, tomatoes,
  scallions, onions, and green bell peppers.  Toss the ingredients
  together well.
  
  Add the dressing and toss it in well.
  
  On each individual serving plate, arrange the romaine lettuce.  Place
  the bulgur salad on top.
  
  Source: Papa Garo's - Redondo Beach, California "Southern California
  Beach Recipe" by Joan and Carl Stromquist ISBN: 0-9622807-3-9 Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tahini Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Garlic cloves
    1/4 c  Tahini (sesame seed paste)
      4 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb -Cold water
 
  Process the above in a blender.
  
  From: ded@kps.se (David Edwards /DP)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tameya (Broad Bean Patties)
 Categories: Misc/food, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Dried broad beans
      1 c  Chopped spring onions
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      2 tb Chopped coriander leaves
      3    Garlic cloves
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 ts Hot chili pepper
    1/4 ts Bicarbonate of soda
           Sesame seeds, optional
           Oil for deep frying
 
  Place beans in a bowl and cover well with cold water.  Leave to soak
  for 2 days, changing water 2 or 3 times.
  
  Drain beans and remove skins by pressing each firmly with fingers.
  Bean should pop out, otherwise tear skin with fingernail then squeeze.
  
  Pass cleaned beans through food grinder using fine screen.  Combine
  with spring onion, parsley, coriander, garlic, salt, peppers and
  soda.  Pass through grinder twice more, then knead to a paste.  Let
  mixture rest for 30 minutes.
  
  With wet hands shape about a tablespoon of mixture at a time into
  thick patties about 4 cm (1-1/2 inches) in diameter.  Dip each side
  in sesame seeds if desired.  Place on a tray and leave at room
  temperature for 20 minutes.
  
  Heat oil to 180C (350F) or until a cube of bread turns golden in 1
  minute.  Fry tameya a few at a time until deep golden brown, turning
  to brown evenly.  Each lot should take 5 minutes to cook.  Drain on
  paper towels.  Serve hot with flat bread such as Khoubiz, Salata
  Tahina and assorted salad vegetables, such as tomato, cucumber, sweet
  peppers and lettuce.
  
  Food processor method: Combine prepared ingredients and process in 2
  lots using steel blade.  Mix well to evenly distribute flavours, rest
  mixture 30 minute then fry as directed above.
  
  Makes 30
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook by Tess Mallos Typos by:
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tan Tan Noodles
 Categories: Pasta, Asian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 tb Peanut oil
    1/4 lb Sichuan preserved vegetables
           -- rinsed and finely chopped
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      2 ts Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 tb Chili bean sauce
      1 tb Chinese sesame paste
           -OR- peanut butter
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 tb Sugar
      2 c  Stock (chicken or vegetable)
    1/2 lb Chinese flat thin noodles
           --(dried or fresh,
           -- wheat or egg)
 
  Heat a wok or large frying-pan over high heat and add the oil.  Put
  in the preserved vegetables, garlic, and ginger and stir-fry for 1
  minute.  Add the rice wine, chili bean sauce, sesame paste, soy
  sauce, sugar, and stock. Reduce the heat and simmer for 3 minutes
  over low heat.
  
  Bring a large pot of water to boil and cook the noodles for 2 minutes
  if they are fresh and 5 minutes if dried.  Drain well in a colander.
  Divide the noodles into individual bowls and ladle the sauce over
  them.  Serve at once.
  
  Source: Asian Vegetarian Feast - by Ken Hom William Morrow and
  Company, Inc. - New York ISBN: 0-688-07753-6 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tandoori Tofu Brochettes
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Extra firm tofu, drained
      3 ea Green onions
      1 tb Fresh ginger, minced
      3 ea Garlic cloves
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 pn Saffron, dissolved in 1/2 c
           -- boiling water
    1/2 c  Soy yogurt
      2 tb Chili powder
      2 tb Paprika
      1 tb Garam masala, optional
           Salt & pepper to taste
           --------BROCHETTES----------
      4 sm Red onions, unpeeled
    1/4 lb Button mushrooms
      1 pt Cherry tomatoes
      1 ea Green pepper, seeded & slice
           Cilantro leaves & lemon
           -- wedges for garnish
 
  Gently press tofu to remove exces moisture.  Slice into large pieces
  & then cut each chunk crosswise.  Set aside.  Place green onions &
  ginger in a food processor & process briefly.  With the machine
  running, drop in garlic cloves, one at a time.  Process 30 seconds.
  Add remaining ingredients. Process 1 minute.
  
  BROCHETTES: Place onions, mushroom, tofu & marinade in a glass dish &
  seal. Refrigerate overnight.  Prepare grill next day.  Quarter onions
  & remove papery outer skins.  Skewer vegetables & tofu alternately.
  Place on hot grill & brush with remaining marinade.  Cover grill
  tightly & allow to smoke for 5 minutes.  Don't peek.  Trun once &
  cook for another 3 to 5 minutes.  Garnish with cilantro & lemon
  wedges.
  
  PER SERVING: 322 Cal.; 21g Prot.; 9g Fat; 36g Carb.; 1mg Chol.; 514mg
  Sod.; 5g Fiber.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tasty Bean Curd
 Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb Flat noodles
      3 tb Oil
      1 sm Onion, sliced
      1 c  Sliced broccoli
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
    1/2 c  Sliced water chestnuts
    1/2 c  Sliced bamboo shoots
      1 c  Bean sprouts
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 ts Ginger, chopped
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Brown sugar
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 tb Sesame oil
  1 1/2 lb Bean curd, cubed
      2 ts Sesame seeds
      2 tb Cashew nuts
      2 tb Green onions, chopped
      2 tb Green peppers, chopped
 
  Heat a pot of salted water & boil the noodles till tender.  Rinse,
  drain & keep warm on a serving dish.  Heat oil in a wok & stir fry
  onion, broccoli, mushrooms, water chestnuts & bamboo shoots for 2
  minutes.  Add bean sprouts & fry for 1 minute.  Place on dish with
  noodles.  Keep warm.
  
  Add a little more oil & fry ginger & garlic for 1 minute.  Stir in
  salt, sugar, soy sauce, sherry & sesame oil.  Add bean curd.  Fry
  gently till bean curd begins to brown.  Mix together with the noodles
  & vegetables. Keep warm.
  
  Add a little more oil to the wok & fry the sesame seeds, nuts, green
  onion & pepper till the nuts begin to brown.  Use a granish for the
  rest of the meal.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Chinese Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tea Biscuits
 Categories: Bread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  White flour
      4 ts Baking powder
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Shortening
      2 c  Water
 
  Mix together the dry ingredients.  Cut in the shortening.  Add water,
  a little at a time & mix thoroughly.  Using more flour if necessary,
  knead dough lightly until it is well mixed & not sticky.  Roll dough
  with rolling pin to 1/2" thickness & cut with a cookie cutter.  Place
  on cookie sheet & bake at 400F for 10 minutes.
  
  Variation, add 1/2 c currants before adding the water.
  
  Makes 18 biscuits.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tempeh & Bulgur Salad
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      4 oz Tempeh, cubed
    1/2    Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Bulgur
      4 lg Mushrooms, chopped
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1    Celery stalk, diced
    1/2 lg Carrot, grated
      1    Tomato, diced
      2 tb Fresh minced parsley
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Honey
    1/2 ts Dillweed
    1/8 ts Oregano
      1 ds White pepper
 
  Heat 1 tb oil in a large skillet & saute tempeh, onion, bulgur &
  mushrooms for 3 to 4 minutes.  Add water & soy sauce.  Bring to a
  boil, cover, reduce heat & simmer 15 minutes.  Let cool to room
  temperature.  Combine with remaining ingredients & mix well.  Chill
  for at least 2 hours before serving.
  
  Frances Moore Lappe, "Diet for a Small Planet"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tempeh Mock Chicken Salad
 Categories: Salad, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      6 oz Tempeh
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise*
      1    Celery stalk, finely chopped
      2 tb Minced dill pickle
      2 tb Minced onion
      2 tb Minced fresh parsley
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      1 ts Soy sauce
      1 ds Garlic powder
 
  Steam tempeh for 20 minutes.  Allow to cool enough to handle.  Cut
  into cubes slightly smaller than 1/2 inch.  Combine with remaining
  ingredients & mix lightly.  Serve on a bed of lettuce or as a
  sandwich filling.
  
  * I use tofu based mayonnaise, blend the tofu well with a touch of
  salt & pepper, lemon juice & a crushed garlic clove.
  
  Frances Moore Lappe, "Diet for a Small Planet"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tempeh Paprikas with Tahini
 Categories: Misc/food, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Sesame oil, toasted
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      2 tb Hungarian paprika
      2 c  Vegetable stock
      2 tb Dark miso
      1 lb Tempeh, cut to 32 triangles
      1 ts Soy sauce
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      4 tb Tahini
           Chopped scallions to garnish
 
  Pre-heat oven to 300F.  Heat oil in large skillet.  Saute onions &
  paprika till golden.  Add 1 1/2 cups stock & miso.  Bring to a boil.
  Add tempeh, reduce heat & simmer 35 to 40 minutes.
  
  Blend soy sauce, vinegar & tahini with remaining stock.  Add to the
  skillet, stirring as it thickens. Be careful not to let it boil.
  
  Garnish with scallions.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" November, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tempeh Party Spread  (Temspr)
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 oz Tempeh, ready to eat *
           - cut small
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Tahini
      1 tb Tamari
      1 ts Garlic Powder
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Tumeric
    1/2 c  Minced Black Olives
    1/2 c  Minced Onion
 
  * Follow instructions on your tempeh to make it ready to eat; the
  tempeh I make is already pre-cooked and it is made with soybeans and
  barley.
  
  Directions: Add all ingredients except the last two to a food
  processor and process until smooth. Then add the last two, mix by
  hand and then form into ball.  Chill for at least two hours.
  
  Serve with veggies or crackers.
  
  Comments and/or improvements are welcome. Gunter Pfaff, 73740,2515
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tempeh Stuffed Peppers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive or toasted sesame oil
      2 c  Onion
      2    Cloves minced garlic
      2 c  Fresh tomatoes, chopped
      1 sm Tomato, pureed to yield 1/2
           -cup
    1/2 c  Sauerkraut
      4 md Red or greeen bell peppers
     12 oz Soy or 3-5 grain tempeh,
           -grated
      2 tb Dark barley or red miso, or
           -tamari or shoyu
    1/4 c  Whole grain bread crumbs,
           -cracker crumbs, or rolled
           -oats
    1/4 c  Cooked beans (black, pinto,
           -azuki, anazazi, or kidney)
      2 tb Dried onion flakes
      2 ts Dried garlic flakes OR
           -1-2 cloves garlic, minced
           -finely
      1 ts Dried oregano or basil
    1/2 ts Thyme or marjoram
 
  Saute onion briefly in oil in a large, heavy, oven-prof 4 quart pot.
  Ad garlic if desiredl Add chopped tomaoto and tomato puree. Add
  sauerkraut. Stir, cover then simmer on low heat 5-10 minutes.
  
  Cut the cap off the vell peppers. Scoop out the insides, and discard
  the seeds.
  
  In a mixing bowl, combine filling ingredients including tempeh, miso,
  bread crumbs, cooked beans, and seasonings. Mix with your hands
  briefly to distribute herbs and spices evenly. Diide filling into 4
  balls, then stuff into each of the bell peppers.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place bell peppers, upright, in the pot
  with the sauce. Cover and let simmer on top of the stove for 10
  minutes.
  
  Transfer the pot to the oven. Bake for 30 minutes. Remove lid and bake
  another 20-15 minutes.
  
  Serve piping hot in bowls, topped with sauce. Accompany with whole
  grain bread or tortillas and salad.
  
  Variation: in place of fresh tomato and tomato puree, use 2 cups
  finely grated carrot or minced winter squash, then add 1 cup of water
  or soup stock.
  
  Per serving: 352 cal, 12 g fat From _Vegetarian Journal_, Vegetarian
  Resource Group, May-June 1993 DEEANNE at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Teriyaki Grilled Corn
 Categories: Vegetarian, Bbq/grill, Condiment, Mixes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Tomato paste
    1/4 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
      1 ts Sesame seeds
      6 ea Ears fresh corn
 
  Place all ingredients, except corn, into a pot.  Whisk togetehr &
  bring to a boil, stirring constantly.  Reduce heat & simmer for 1
  minute.  Remove from heat.
  
  Prepare grill.  Husk corn & grill covered for 5 to 10 minutes. When
  almost done, baste with glaze two or three times.
  
  PER SERVING: 70 Cal.; 1g Prot.; 0.4g Fat; 15g Carb.; 6mg Sod.; 4g
  Fiber.

  
  "Vegetarian Times" July, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Teriyaki Tempeh & Pineapple Salsa
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Tamari
      2 tb Mirin or sherry
    1/4 c  Pineapple juice
      1 tb Fresh ginger, grated
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 pn Red pepper flakes
      4    Tempeh burgers

MMMMM----------------------PINEAPPLE SALSA---------------------------
      2 c  Fresh pineapple, diced
    1/4 c  Red onion, diced
    1/4 c  Green bell pepper, diced
    1/2    Tomato; seeded, diced
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1    Jalapeno pepper
           -- seeded, minced
      2 tb Fresh cilantro, minced
    1/2 ts Ground coriander seed
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  To make marinade, combine tamari, mirin, pineapple juice, ginger,
  garlic and red pepper flakes in a shallow baking dish.  Place tempeh
  burgers in marinade and set aside 15 minutes.  Turn burgers
  occasionally to coat with marinade.
  
  Combine pineapple, red onion, green pepper, tomato, garlic, jalapeno,
  cilantro and spices in a small bowl.  Refrigerate until serving time.
  
  Remove tempeh burgers from marinade and grill over medium-hot coals 5
  minutes each side.  Serve immediately with Pineapple Salsa.
  
  PER SERVING: Calories: 213 Grams of fat: 6.4 Cholesterol: 0 % Fat
  Calories: 27 Grams Fiber: 6.6
  
  Source: Delicious! Magazine, July/August 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tex-Mex Rice
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Onion, chopped
      2 tb Olive Oil
      1 c  Rice, raw
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      2    Garlic Cloves
  2 1/2 c  Vegetable Broth
  1 1/2 ts Ground Cumin
      1    Red Bell Pepper
 
       Mince garlic.  Remove seeds and dice bell pepper.  In dutch
  oven, cook onion, garlic and raw rice in oil until onion is tender
  and rice is lightly browned.  Add chicken broth and bring to a boil.
  Stir in cumin and black pepper.  Cover tightly and simmer 20 minutes.
  Remove from heat. Stir in bell pepper.  Let stand covered until all
  liquid is absorbed, about 5 minutes.
  
  Posted by Sandee Eveland in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Fresh Cucumber Salad (Taeng Kwa Brio Wan)
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian, Thai
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 md Cucumbers; sliced as thinly
           -- as possible *
           Salt
    1/2 ts Dried hot pepper flakes
      1 tb Sugar; dissolved in:
    1/4 c  -Hot water
      4 tb White vinegar
      2 tb Minced red onion; -OR-
      1 tb -Minced scallions   (Opt.)
 
  *Note: The book says to peel the cucumbers only if they are waxed and
  even then leave on a few strips.  I say to remove all the peel if
  it's been waxed.  Yuck.
  
  In a bowl, generously salt the sliced cucumbers.  Allow to sit for at
  least 30 minutes, stirring occasionally.
  
  Combine the other ingredients.
  
  Squeeze out as much of the cucumber juice as you can, by wringing a
  handful at a time in a double layer of cheesecloth or a dish towel.
  Twist until you can extract no more juice.
  
  Combine the squeezed cucumbers and the sauce in a serving bowl and
  refrigerate until ready to serve.
  
  Source: Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thanksgiving Day Tofu
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Holiday
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Tofu
      2 tb Arrowroot
      3 tb Vogue Vegy Base
    3/4 ts Sea salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
  1 1/2 ts Agar flakes; -=OR=-
      1 ts -Agar powder
      2 tb Barley malt syrup
      2 tb Water

MMMMM-----------------------SAGE DRESSING----------------------------
    1/2 c  Finely diced onions
    1/2 c  Finely diced celery
    1/2 c  Finely diced carrots
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      2 tb Unrefined corn oil
    1/2 ts Ground sage
    1/4 ts Dried basil
      3 tb Vogue Vegy Base
      1 ts Sea salt
    1/8 ts Black pepper
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Cubed dry whole wheat bread
 
  This is a superb substitute for the traditional Thanksgiving turkey.
  It's also good for other times of the year!  It's really the dressing
  that carries this dish.  The corn oil gives it that wonderful buttery
  taste that poultry dressing usually has.
  
  DIRECTIONS ========== Wash the tofu, pat it dry, and cut it into small
  pieces.  Put the tofu, arrowroot, soup base, salt, pepper, and agar
  flakes in a food processor and blend to a smooth paste. Oil and flour
  the loaf pan (or line it with baking liner paper after oiling).
  Spread a layer of tofu paste inside the pan, lining the bottom and
  all four sides. (Spread only a thin layer on the ends.) Use all but
  about 1 cup of the paste.
  
  Firmly but gently press the dressing into the pan, on top of the tofu
  paste "liner".  Try to avoid displacing the tofu.  Cover the dressing
  with the remaining tofu, carefully sealing the edges.  Cover the pan
  with foil, making certain the foil doesn't come in contact with the
  tofu.  (The tofu will eat into the foil.)
  
  Bake in a preheated oven at 350 F for 30 to 40 minutes.  Then remove
  the foil cover, glaze the top of the loaf with the dissolved barley
  malt syrup, turn the oven up to 450 F, and continue baking for 10
  minutes. Remove from oven and allow the loaf to cool for about 10
  minutes.  Unmold, slice, and serve hot with a sauce of your choice.
  
  SAGE DRESSING:  Saute onions, celery, carrots, and garlic in oil for 5
  minutes.  Add the sage, basil, soup base, salt and pepper, and
  continue cooking 5 minutes longer.
  
  Add the water and bring to a simmer.  Stir in the bread crumbs and
  cook for a few minutes.  Then remove from heat.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M. ISBN:
  0-89815-377-8 Typed by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thunder & Lightning
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Dry chick peas, soaked
      1 lb Elbow macaroni
      2 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Basil
      1 tb Parsley
           Olive oil for drizzling
 
  Drain & wash chick peas.  Cook for 50 to 60 minutes, or until tender.
  
  Meanwhile, cook the macaroni in a large pan of boiling water, lightly
  salted for 10 minutes, or until just resistant to the bite.  Drain.
  
  Saute garlic in a large skillet in olive oil for a few minutes.  Add
  cooked, drained chick peas & macaroni.  Mix in the basil & parsley.
  Cook over a very low heat, stirring occasionally, til the flavours
  are absorbed & the mixture is heated through.  Season with salt &
  pepper & serve hot with a crisp green salad.
  
  Adapted from Sarah Brown's "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tibetan Roast
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Oil
      4 oz Buckwheat
      4 oz Onion, diced
      8 oz Mushrooms, chopped
    1/4 pt Red wine
    1/4 pt Stock
      4 oz Walnuts
      8 oz Spinach
      1 ts Rosemary
      1 ts Sage
           Salt & pepper
 
  Preheat oven to 375F.
  
  Heat oil in a skillet & fry the buckwheat for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add
  onions & mushrooms & cook for a few more minutes.  Pour in the wine &
  stock & bring to a boil.  Reduce heat & simmer for 20 minutes.  Add
  more stock if necessary.
  
  Grind the walnuts finely.  Wash & cook spinach without water for 6
  minutes. Drain off any excess liquid & chop thoroughly.
  
  When buckwheat is cooked, remove pan from heat & let cool slightly.
  Stir in walnuts & spinach.  Mix in the herbs & mix well.  Season to
  taste.
  
  Grease a 1 LB loaf tin & press in the mixture.  Bake for 50 to 60
  minutes till the top is dark brown & feels firm to the touch.  Let it
  stand for 10 minutes, then turn out onto a plate.  Serve with roasted
  vegetables & greens.
  
  Sarah Brown, "Vegetarian Kitchen"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Bourguignon
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Firm tofu
           - cut into 1 in. squares
  1 1/2 c  Dry red wine
    1/4 c  Tamari
      4    Garlic cloves; pressed
           -Water as needed
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Sliced onions
      4 c  Sliced mushrooms
      4    Bay leaves
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Tarragon
      4 tb Whole wheat pastry flour
 
  Place the pieces of tofu in a large, shallow dish.  Mix together the
  wine, tamari, and garlic.  Pour the mixture over the tofu, add water
  as need to cover it, and let it marinate for at least one hour.  If
  the tofu is going to marinate for more than an hour, place in the
  refrigerator.
  
  Place the marinated tofu on a well-oiled cookie sheet, reserving the
  marinade.  Bake at 375oF for 35-45 minutes or until crispy and brown.
  Turn the tofu over once during the baking so that it browns on both
  sides.
  
  While the tofu bakes, heat the oil in a large pan and slowly saute the
  onions.  When the onions are almost tender, add the mushrooms and the
  herbs.  Saute for a few minutes more.  Add the flour and mix well.
  Remove the pan from the heat and stir in a little of the marinade.
  Continue stirring until a paste is formed.  Return the pan to the
  heat and slowly add the remaining marinade, stirring constantly.  Add
  the baked tofu and simmer until thickened.
  
  Serve over pasta, rice or millet.
  
  From: allison@Ingres.COM (ALLISON FINK, HR EXT 2907)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Cottage Cheese
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Tofu
      1 tb Oil
      1 ts Vinegar OR
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Dill
      1 ts Tamari
      1 ts Nutritional yeast
 
  Mash the tofu. Add remaining ingredients and mix well.
   Chill and serve.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Cream Cheese
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Tofu
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Caraway seeds
    1/4 ts Dill
           Juice of 3 small limes
      2 tb Water
 
  Place all ingredients in blender and blend until creamy. Serve on
  bread or baked potatoes.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Dip
 Categories: Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      8 oz Tofu
    1/2 lg Ripe avocado
      2    Garlic cloves; chopped
      2 ts Minced fresh ginger
    1/2 c  Parsley leaves
           -(stems removed)
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Tahini or peanut butter
           -OR- sunflower seed butter
      1 tb Applesauce; -=OR=-
      1 pn -Sugar or a little Honey
 
  Blend all ingredients in a food processor until very smooth.
  
  This delicious and healthful combination will compliment your garden
  beauties while it woos the most timid tofu skeptic.  You cna serve it
  with fresh vegetables or crackers or use it as a sandwich filling.
  
  Makes about 2 cups.
  
  Source: Cooking from the Garden - by Rosalind Creasy ISBN:
  0-87156--731-8 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Indonesian-Style
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Smooth peanut butter
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 c  -Water
    1/2 ts Oriental sesame oil
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Rice vinegar
      1 tb Brown sugar, firmly packed
      2    Garlic cloves
           - minced or pressed
      1 tb Sesame seed
      3    Green onions
           -ends trimmed, thinly sliced
      1 lb Regular tofu; drained
           Hot cooked rice
           Major Grey chutney
 
  In a small bowl, stir together peanut butter, soy sauce, water,
  sesame oil, ginger, vinegar, and sugar until smooth.  Mix in garlic,
  sesame seed, and onions.
  
  Spoon about 1/4 of the peanut butter mixture into an 8-inch-square
  pan. Cut tofu ito 4 equal slices.  Lay slices side by side in pan
  (trim slices to fit, if needed, tucking scraps into corners).
  
  Spoon remaining sauce over tofu.  If made ahead, cover and chill up
  to 4 hours.
  
  Bake, uncovered, in a 375 F oven until tofu is hot in center, about 25
  minutes.  Transfer tofu to plates with a spatula; spoon sauce onto
  tofu and rice.  Offer chutney to add to taste.
  
  Per serving: 228 cal.; 15 g protein; 15 g fat (2.4 g sat.); 11 g
  carbo.; 1,115 mg sodium; 0 mg chol.
  
  Source: Amelia Lane - Bend, Oregon Sunset magazine - April, 1992
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Kebabs
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 oz Firm tofu
      1 tb Garlic, minced
      1 tb Onion, minced
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 ts Tamari sauce
      1 tb Rice vinegar
      1 c  Cubed vegetables of choice
 
  To drain tofu, line a plate with paper towels, placew tofu on top of
  plate & cover with more towels.  Press with a good weight fpr 10
  minutes.  Then cut into 2" cubes.
  
  place cubes in a bowl with garlic, onion, oregano & tamari sauce &
  vinegar. Let marinate, stirring frequently for 30 minutes or more.
  
  Pre-heat broiler or grill.  Skewer vegetables, adding tofu cubes
  alternately.  Broil or grill till lightly browned & heated through.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" September, 1990
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Loaf
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, diced
      1 ea Onion, diced
      1 ea Carrot, diced
      1 ea Red bell pepper, diced
      1 ea Celery stick, diced
      2 tb Tamari
      2 lb Tofu, mashed
      4 sl Wholewheat bread
      1 tb Oil
      1 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1 c  Nutritional yeast
    1/2 c  Tahini
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Turmeric
 
  Heat oil in a skillet, add garlic, onion, pepper, carrot & celery.
  Season with 1 tb tamari.  Cook till vegetables are tender.  Remove
  from heat & put in a large mixing bowl.  Add mashed tofu.  Cut bread
  into crouton sized pieces & quick fry in remaining oil with rest of
  tamari, garlic powder & 5 tb nutritional yeast.  Add to tofu mixture.
  Add rest of the ingredients. Mix well.  Place in a well oiled
  casserole dish & press down very well. Bake at 350F for 35 minutes.
  Allow to cool slightly, then turn out on a plate.  Slice & serve.
  Excellent cold too.
  
  "The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Mayonnaise
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Soft tofu
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Prepared mustard
      1 ts Apple cider vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Combine all ingredients in a blender and beat until smooth and creamy.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Milk
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz Tofu
    1/2    To 2/3 c water
      2 ts Maple syrup
 
  Combine all ingredients in blender and puree until smooth. Use the
  lesser amount of water for a light cream consistency, the full amount
  for milk.
  
  Makes about 1 cup.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 02:51 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Nut Patties
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Egg replacer
      1 c  Whole wheat bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Roasted almond butter
    1/2 c  Walnuts, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Sunflower seeds, lightly
           -roasted
    1/2 c  Millet or brown rice,
           -precooked
      2 tb Almond oil
      2 tb Parsley
      1 tb Onion powder
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 ts Sea salt
    1/8 ts Rosemary, ground
    1/2 lb Tofu, crumbled
 
  Mix the water and egg replacer together.
  
  Blend the remaining ingredients, except for the tofu, in a food
  processor. Process until well mixed, then stir in the tofu.
  
  Form into 8 patties. Place on grill or in frying pan and grill until
  browned on both sides.
  
  Per patty:  316 cal, 10 g protein, 19 g fat, 19 g carbohydrates, 0
  chol
  
  From _Murrieta Hot Springs Vegetarian Cookbook_ by the Murrieta
  Foundation DEEANNE [EatMoVeggies]       at 19:14 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Paneer
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Corn oil, unrefined
      1 c  Diced onions
      2 tb Minced garlic
      4 ts Minced ginger
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Tumeric
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
      2 ts Ground coriander
      4 ts Cilantro
      2 tb Garam marsala
           -(see recipe below, or
           - use commercial blend)
     35 oz Canned Italian tomatoes
    1/2 lb Firm silken tofu
  1 1/2 c  Green peas
           -(pref. fresh, OR frozen)

MMMMM-----------------------GARAM MARSALA----------------------------
      5    3" cinnamon sticks
      1 c  Whole cardamom pods
    1/2 c  Whole cloves
    1/2 c  Whole cumin seeds
    1/2 c  Whole black peppercorns
    1/4 c  Coriander seeds
 
  Heat the oil in a saucepan.  Saute the onions, garlic, ginger, salt,
  tumeric, cayenne, coriander, cilantro, and garam marsala for about 5
  minutes.
  
  Drain the juice from the tomatoes into the sauteed vegetables.  Then
  crush the tomatoes by hand and add them to the vegetables.  Dice the
  tofu into 1/2-inch cubes and add to the vegetables.  Continue to cook
  for 10 to 15 minutes over low heat.  Then add the peas and cook
  another 4 minutes. Serve hot over brown rice.  A coriander coconut
  chutney (or other chutney) is an excellent accompaniment.
  
  GARAM MARSALA:  Preheat the oven to 200 F.  Place the ingredients on a
  baking sheet and roast for 30 minutes, or until the spices give off an
  aroma.  (Some chefs suggest roasting each ingredient separately,
  since each gives its characteristic aroma at a different time.)
  
  Separate the cardamom pods from the seeds.  Discard the pods.  Crush
  the cinnamon.  Combine the cinnamon, cardamom seeds, and other spices
  until the mixture is powdery.  Store in a sealed jar.
  
  Source: Friendly Foods - by Brother Ron Pickarski, O.F.M.
  :       ISBN: 0-8981555-377-8
  :       Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Provencal
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu; patted dry
           -- and cut into 1/2" cubes
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
      2 md Onions; chopped
     35 oz Canned plum tomatoes w/juice
           -- (chopped)
      1 tb Tomato paste
      2 c  Diced green beans
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
      1    Bay leaf
           Pepper; to taste
 
  Heat a bit of oil in large skillet.  Stir fry tofu until golden.
  Remove from pan and drain.
  
  Saute garlic and onions for about 5 mins.  Add tomatoes, their juice
  and tomato paste, stir until blended.
  
  Return tofu to pan, add remaining ingredients and toss thoroughly.
  Cover and simmer 15 mins or until green beans are tender.  If sauce
  is too thin boil uncovered to reduce.
  
  We LOVE this quick simple dish; sometimes I will substitute Zukes, or
  squash, or mushrooms for all or part of the tofu.   Enjoy.
  
  A quick easy companion dish:
  
  One box of NEAR EAST Bulghur Pilaf and some fresh mushrooms.
  
  Slice mushrooms and add to sauce pan.  Pour on water needed for Pilaf
  and bring to a boil add NE mix and simmer 15 minutes.  It is GREAT!
  From Quick Vegetarian Pleasures by Jeanne Lemlin (an EXCELLENT every
  day cookbook)
  
  B.DONIVAN [Brian...]         at 18:56 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Provencal Club Sandwich
 Categories: Vegetarian, Sandwich, Bbq/grill, Condiment
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Vegetable bouillon
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 tb Fresh herbs, chopped
           --(thyme, marjoram, -OR-
           -- oregano)
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 lb Reduced-fat tofu; drained
      1    Red bell pepper
           -- sliced in rings
      1    Yellow bell pepper
           -- sliced in rings
      1    Red onion; sliced in rings
      1 bn Arugula or red leaf lettuce
      1    Loaf French bread
           -- (whole wheat)

MMMMM----------------------BASIL MAYONNAISE---------------------------
    1/2 c  Reduced-fat mayonnaise
           -OR- tofu mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Fresh basil
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Black pepper
 
  To make marinade, combine olive oil, lemon juice, bouillon,
  Worcestershire sauce, garlic, herbs and black pepper in a shallow
  baking dish.
  
  Slice tofu lengthwise into four steaks.  Add tofu, peppers and onion
  to marinade.  Set aside 15 minutes.  Turn tofu and vegetables
  occasionally to coat with marinade.
  
  Combine mayonnaise, basil, garlic and pepper in a blender or food
  processor and puree until smooth.  Refrigerate until serving time.
  
  Remove tofu from marinade.  Grill over medium-hot coals 7 to 8
  minutes each side until golden and edges start to crisp.  When touf
  is ready to be turned, place vegetables on the grill and cook 3 to 5
  minutes each side until edges start to blacken.
  
  To make sandwiches, cut French bread into four equal lengths, then
  slice each side in half.  Spread cut surfaces with Basil Mayonnaise.
  Build sandwiches beginning with a layer of grilled tofu, followed by
  arugula then peppers and onions.
  
  Per Serving (using egg mayonnaise I think -K.M.): Calories: 535 Grams
  of Fat: 15                % Fat Calories: 25 Cholesterol: 10 mg Grams
  of Fiber: 11.3
  
  Source: Delicious! magazine, July/August 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Ribs
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------FORMATTED BY S. GRABOWSKI----------------------
      1 lb Firm tofu
      2 tb Cold pressed oil
      8    Bamboo skewers
           BBQ sauce as needed
      1 c  Soy sauce (marinade)
 
  Slice tofu 1/2" thin, marinade in soy sauce minimum 8 hours in fridge.
  Pre-heat oven to 300F. Cut the marinated tofu slices lengthwise into 3
  strips per slice. Brush the tofu slices on all sides with oil and lay
  them, side by side, in a dish. The slices should not touch. Bake for
  40 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool for 5 minutes.  Pass
  bamboo skewers carefully through the width of each slice.  Five to
  six slices will fit on one skewer without touching.  Cover with
  barbecue sauce and pre-heat the broiler. Broil 6 inches from the heat
  for about 5 minutes, turn over, and repeat. The tofu can become dark
  but scorching will make it bitter.
  
  From The High Road to Health CookBook by Lindsay Wagner
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Ricotta Cheese
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Firm tofu
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      4 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Oil
      2 ts Basil
      1 ts Garlic
 
  Grind tofu through a food mill or mash with fork. Mix in other
  ingredients. Use in recipes that call for a Ricotta style filling.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Salad
 Categories: Salad, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu
    1/4 c  Tahini
      1 ts Mustard
      1 tb Tamari
      1 tb Eggless mayo
    1/4 c  Onion; finely chopped
      1 sm Garlic clove; minced
    1/4 c  Shredded carrots
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Mash tofu.  Add other ingredients and mix well.  Spread on toast,
  pita, crackers, or roll up in lettuce leaves.
  
  Tara McDermott tara@starburst.umd.edu
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Sour Cream
 Categories: Vegetarian, Misc/food
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 10 1/2 oz Firm tofu
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Nutritional yeast (optional)
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 ts Vinegar
      1 ds Salt
 
  Combine all ingredients n a blender and blend until smooth.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 13:13 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Triangles
 Categories: Appetizer, Snack, Vegetarian
      Yield: 30 servings
 
    1/2 lb Firm tofu
      1 tb Corn or canola oil
           -- (amount may be doubled)
      1 ts Minced ginger root
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 tb Curry powder; blended with:
      2 tb Water
      1 ts Cornstarch; blended with:
      1 tb Water
      1 tb Sesame oil
     20    Wonton skins
           Oil for deep-frying
    1/4 lb Fresh mushrooms; minced
      1    Soy sauce (or double amount)
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Sherry
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 ts Low sodium instant bouillon
           -- chicken, or vegetable
           -- (amount may be doubled)
 
  Dry the tofu and crumble into small pieces with a fork.  Heat oil in a
  nonstick wok; saute ginger root until brown.  Add chopped onion and
  blended curry powder; stir and cook for 2 minutes.
  
  Add tofu, mushrooms, soy sauce, pepper, sherry, paprika and bouillon;
  bring to a boil.  Add sesame oil and blended cornstarch; mix well.
  Cool.
  
  Place a portion of the curried tofu (about 2 teaspoons) in the center
  of a wonton skin.  Fold the skin diagonally into the shape of a
  triangle.  Seal the edges with water.
  
  Heat oil for deep-frying.  Fry the tofu triangles until brown and
  crisp. Serve with vinegar, equal amounts of soy sauce and vinegar, or
  Sweet and Sour Sauce, or eat plain.  Makes 30 triangles.
  
  Each triangle: Calories: 36 Fat: 2 gm (saturated fat = 7%)
  Carbohydrates: 3 gm                     Cholesterol: 0 mg Protein: 1
  gm Sodium: 21 mg Fiber: 0 gm                             Calcium: 11
  mg
  
  Calculated with 2 tablespoons of oil for deep-frying. [I'm guessing
  this is for low sodium soy sauce as well. -K.M.]
  
  Source: Nutritional Cooking with Tofu, by Christine Y.C. Liu, M.P.H.
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Whip
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Dessert, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Firm or extra-firm tofu
           - drained & cut into chunks
    1/4 c  Maple syrup
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 tb Water, or more, optional
 
  It's light, fast, and a perfect complement to pies, puddings, and
  fruit compotes.  Tofu Whip can be stored in the refrigerator for up
  to 1 week; if the mixture separates, blend it thoroughly before
  using.  The recipe may be cut in half.
  
  In a food processor or blender, blend all of the ingredients until
  very creamy, adding water if needed to achieve a whipped cream
  consistency. Refrigerate until needed.
  
  VARIATION: Instead of maple syrup, try 3 to 4 tablespoons of
  fruit-sweetened preserves and some finely minced citrus peel.  Choose
  the fruit and citrus flavors to complement the dessert.
  
  Makes about 2 cups
  
                               Source: Recipes from an Ecological
  Kitchen
                                       by Lorna J. Sass
                                       ISBN: 0-688-10051-1
                                       Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Whipped Cream Topping
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 10 1/2 oz Firm tofu
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Confectioners sugar
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Vanilla
 
   Combine all ingredients and blend in blender until smooth. Serve
  immediately or chill.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Yogurt Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 10 1/2 oz Soft tofu
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Syrup
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Blend all ingedients in blender until smooth and creamy. DEEANNE at
  14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu Yogurt
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Tofu
      1    Frozen banana, sliced
      1    Ripe banana, sliced
           Chopped fruit
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Raisins
 
   Combine all ingredients, except chopped fruit and raisins in blender;
    blend at medium speed for 45 seconds. Add fruit and rains. Chill in
    freezer for 30 minutes.
  
  DEEANNE                      at 14:52 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu-Pumpkin Pie
 Categories: Dessert, Pie/tart, Vegetarian
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Shortening
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Cold water
      1 lb Firm tofu
     16 oz Pumpkin, canned
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/3 c  Safflower oil
      5 tb Candied ginger, chopped
 
  Crust:  Combine flour, shortening & salt.  Add water a little at a
  time to form a firm dough.  Do not add too much.  Wrap dough in wax
  paper & chill for a minmum of 30 minutes.  Roll out & palce in a 10"
  tart pan.
  
  Filling:  Pre-heat oven to 350F.  Combine all filling ingredients
  except candied ginger.  Slowly add 3 tb of ginger.  Pour filling into
  pie crust & bake for 1 hour.  Remove from oven, allow to cool &
  sprinkle remaining ginger on top of pie.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" November, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tofu-Strawberry Dessert
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 oz Tofu, chilled & mashed
  4 1/2 tb Honey
      2 ts Vanilla extract
     15 ea Strawberries, cut vertically
           -- into halves
    1/4 c  Sliced hazelnuts
 
  Combine the tofu, honey & vanilla in a large serving bowl.  Mix well
  with a fork.  Dot the surface with strawberries, then sprinkle with
  nuts. Serve.
  
  Shurtleff & Aoyagi, "The Book of Tofu"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato & Dill Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      2    Onions, minced
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1 ts Olive oil
      4 c  Chopped plum tomatoes
      1 c  Diced sweet red peppers
    1/4 c  Diced celery
      2 tb Chopped green chilies
      2 c  Stock
      2 ts Fresh dill, chopped
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/4 ts Cumin
 
  Combine all ingredients except dill, cilantro, cumin, cayenne & salt.
  Bring to a boil & simmer for 25 minutes. Let cool slightly, then
  puree. Stir in remaining ingredients with some salt & pepper.  Serve
  warmed or chilled.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 kg Tomatoes
    100 g  Glace pineapple
      1 ea Green apple
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
  3 1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Peel & coarsely chop tomatoes.  Coarsely chop pineapple.  Peel, core &
  grate apple.  Combine the fruit in a large pot.  Bring to a boil,
  simmer uncovered for 20 minutes.  Stir in lemon juice.
  
  Add sugar & stir till dissolved.  Boil rapidly, uncovered, for 45
  minutes or until a setting point is reached.  Remove from heat &
  stand for 5 minutes.  Pour into warm sterile jars & seal.
  
  Letts, "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Kachumber
 Categories: Salad, Indian, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Tomatoes, cut into thin
           -- wedges
      2 ea Scallions, chopped
      2 ts Chopped fresh mint
    1/2 ts Grated ginger
      4 ts Fresh lime juice
      4 ts Vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Black mustard seeds
           Salt to taste
 
  Combine the tomatoes, scallions, mint, ginger & lime juice in a medium
  bowl.  Heat the vegetable oil in a small skillet.  Add the mustard
  seeds. Have a cover ready to contain the seeds as they begin to pop.
  Remove from heat.  Pour over the other ingredients, add salt to taste
  & lightly toss. Let mariante for 30 minutes before serving.
  
  "Sundays at Moosewood Restaurant Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Soup with Pasta
 Categories: Soup/stew, Greek, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Onion, chopped
      1 lb Tomatoes, chopped
      1 ea Carrot, sliced
      1 ea Celery stick, sliced
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Basil
      3 pt Stock
      1 c  Small pasta/broken vermicell
      1 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Heat oil in soup pot & gently fry the onion for 2 minutes.  Add
  tomatoes, carrot & celery.  Mix wellwith the oil  Sprinkle in the
  seasonings & stir together.  Fry for 3 minutes.  Add stock & bring to
  a boil.  Simmer for 10 minutes then add pasta.  When pasta is tender,
  serve, garnished with parsley.
  
  Jack Santa Maria, "Greek Vegetarian Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato-Leek Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Ripe red tomatoes
    1/3 c  Fresh parsley
      1    Large leek
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Olive oil
      6 oz Can tomato paste
      2 tb Dry red wine
      1 ts Dill
  1 1/2 ts Hungarian paprika
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/4 ts Thyme
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Cut all but 1/2 LB of tomatoes into quarters.  With parsley, process
  until well pureed.  Dice the rest of the tomatoes & set aside.
  
  Slice the white part of the leek into 1/4" slices.  Chop the tender
  green leaves.  Discard all but a 2 or 3 of the tougher part of the
  leaves.  Wash carefully.  Put the leeks in a large pot along with the
  reserved green leaves, garlic & olive oil.  Cover with 3 cups stock.
  Bring to a boil, lower heat & simmer for 5 minutes.  Add the pureed &
  diced tomatoes.  Add the rest of the ingredients.  Simmer on low heat
  for 20 to 25 minutes. Chill & serve.
  
  Nava Atlas, "Vegetariana"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Topig (Lenten Chick Pea Kofta)
 Categories: Misc/food, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Chick peas
      6 c  -Cold water
      2 sm Potatoes; boiled in jackets
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground white pepper

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 lg Onions; halved & sliced
      2 tb -Water
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/3 c  Pine nuts
    1/3 c  Currants
    3/4 c  Tahina
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM--------------------TO FINISH AND SERVE-------------------------
           -Boiling, salted water
           Olive oil
           Ground cinnamon or paprika
           Lemon wedges
           Parsley sprigs
 
  Serves: 8-12 Cooking time: 35 minutes
  
  Soak chick peas in the cold water for 24 hours, in a cool place if
  weather is warm.  Remove the skins by taking a handful at a time and
  rubbing with the palms of both hands so that the chick peas actually
  rub against one another.  Drop back into bowl and take up another
  lot.  Skim off the floating skins as they accumulate.  (Dang, why not
  just leave the skins ON, this sounds like too much trouble! -KM)
  Drain well.
  
  Pass the skinned chick peas through food grinder twice, using fine
  screen. Alternatively, place in food processor container in 2 lots
  and process to a paste (NOW you're talking! -KM)
  
  Peel skin from boiled potatoes and mash finely with a fork.  Combine
  with ground chick peas, add salt and a good grinding of white pepper.
  Blend thoroughly and keep aside.
  
  Put sliced onions in a pan with the water, cover and steam over
  medium heat for 10 minutes, then remove cover and leave until
  moisture evaporates. Turn into a bowl and cool.
  
  Add allspice, cumin, pine nuts, and currants to the onion.  Blend
  well, then mix in tahina, and salt and pepper to taste.
  
  Take 4 pieces of unbleached calico or similar cloth, each about 50 cm
  (20 inches) square and scald in boiling water.  Cool a little, then
  wring out well.
  
  Open out a square of cloth on work surface and put a quarter of the
  chick pea paste in the centre.  Spread evenly with a spatula to a 20
  cm (8 inch) square and place a quarter of the filling in the centre,
  spreading it a little.
  
  Bring each corner of the paste over the filling by lifting up corners
  of cloth.  Paste should enclose filling in envelope fashion.  Smooth
  joins to seal well.
  
  Make a single tie with each pair of diagonally opposite corners of
  cloth, then tie a second time.  Complete another 3 topigs in the same
  way.
  
  Half fill a large pot with water, bring to the boil and add about 1
  tablespoon salt. When briskly boiling, lower prepared topigs into pot
  and return to the boil.  Cover and boil steadily for 12-15 minutes or
  until topigs float and feel firm to the touch.
  
  Lift out immediately and place on a tray, draining off water in tray.
  
  Untie and invert topigs onto platter.  Leave until cool.
  
  When ready to serve, pour a little olive oil over each topig and dust
  lightly with cinnamon or paprika.  Garnish platter with lemon wedges
  and parsley.  To serve, cut each topig in half, then slice in thick
  pieces. Olive oil and lemon juice are added to individual taste.
  
  NOTE: Ready-skinned chick peas are available at some Armenian and
  Greek food stores.  These look like split peas, but are larger and
  nut coloured.
  
  Source: The Complete Middle East Cookbook, by Tess Mallos Typos and
  smart remarks by: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trio of Grains with Sweet Corn Coulis
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------COUSCOUS-------------------------------
      1 c  Cooked Couscous
  1 1/2 tb Cucumber, finely diced
  1 1/2 tb Pine Nuts, roasted
  1 1/2 tb Mint, fresh, finely minced
  1 1/2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 tb Tomato Concasse (see note)
      1 tb Herb-Infused Olive Oil
           Salt and Pepper, to taste

MMMMM------------------------BASMATI RICE-----------------------------
      1 c  Basmati Rice, cooked
      2 tb Spinach, chopped and sauteed
      2 tb Tomato Paste
  1 1/2 tb Zucchini, blanched and
           - finely diced
           Salt and Pepper, to taste

MMMMM---------------------------QUINOA--------------------------------
      1 c  Quinoa, cooked
      2 tb Shiitake Mushrooms, finely
           - sliced and sauteed
      2 tb Shiitake Mushroom Duxelles
           - (see note)
      1 tb Red Bell Pepper, roasted and
           - finely chopped
  1 1/2 ts Tarragon, fresh, finely
           - chopped
  1 1/2 ts Hazelnut Oil
           Salt and Pepper, to taste

MMMMM---------------------SWEET CORN COULIS--------------------------
      6    Ears Sweet Corn (in husks)
      1 tb Water (up to double amount)
           Salt and Pepper, to taste

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Sage Leaves, fried
           - (see note)
      1 pn Finely Julienned, lightly
           - fried Zucchini (see note)
 
  Each of the three grain combinations can be formed using timbales or
  other molds, or by the quenelle method using two large tablespoons.
  
  COUSCOUS, RICE AND QUINOA:  Heat all couscous ingredients in a double
  boiler until warmed through.  Pack mixture into 6 small timbale molds
  (or scoop mixture in a tablespoon, round a second tablespoon over the
  mixture and press spoons together).  Unmold mixture and set aside.
  
  Repeat procedure with basmati rice ingredients; set aside.
  
  Repeat with quinoa ingredients; set aside.
  
  COULIS:  Grill, broil or roast corn in their husks for 10 to 12
  minutes, until corn is cooked.  Discard husks and remove kernels from
  cobs.  In a food processor blend kernels with enough water to produce
  a sauce.  Pass mixture through a fine strainer, and season the liquid
  with salt and pepper.
  
  TO SERVE:  Pour coulis on 6 plates and place one serving of each
  grain on each plate.  Garnish couscous with fried sage leaves;
  garnish basmati rice with fried zucchini.
  
  NOTES: To make tomato concasse, peel, seed and dice tomatoes and toss
  with olive oil, salt and pepper.
  
  To make shiitake duxelles, finely mince mushrooms and saute in oil
  with a pinch of minced shallot or onion.
  
  To fry sage leaves and zucchini for the garnishes, heat 3/4 inch of
  oil in a pan to 350 F (a drop of water should ripple and pop on
  surface of the oil); fry sage leaves for 1 minute, remove to a paper
  towel and drain.	Repeat with finely julienned zucchini, frying just
  until golden.
  
  Created by: Charlie Trotter, chef extraordinaire, Chicago
  
  Source: Vegetarian Times, April 1993
  
  Shared by: Norman R. Brown
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuscan Bread
 Categories: Bread, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 oz Fresh yeast; -=OR=-
      2 pk -Instant dry yeast granules
  1 1/4 c  Warm water (125F)
  2 1/4 c  Unbleached white flour
    1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
 
  IN A LARGE BOWL, DISSOLVE the yeast in the water. Mix the 2 flours
  and stir them in to make a soft dough. Knead 10 minutes by hand, or 4
  minutes in a heavy duty mixer with a dough hook. Oil a clean bowl and
  set the dough in it, cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise
  until doubled in bulk. (In the traditional warm place, this will take
  about 2 hours. However, a cooler temperature will do as long as the
  dough has enough time to rise, including overnight in the
  refrigerator.) If the dough is ready sooner than it is needed, punch
  it down and refrigerate it or let it rise slowly again at room
  temperature until ready to use. Rub 2 to 3 tablespoons flour into a
  lintless dish towel and set the towel on a baking sheet. When the
  dough has completed its rising, punch it down, turn it out onto a
  floured work surface, and flatten it into an oblong about 8 inches
  wide, 10 inches long, and 1/4-inch thick. It will still be very soft,
  but try to use a minimum of additional flour in handling it. Roll the
  dough tight, jelly-roll fashion, into a cylindrical shape. Flatten
  this to about 1-inch thick and roll it again. (This activates the web
  of gluten that will keep the loaf from flattening out in the oven.)
  FOR A ROUND LOAF, tuck both ends of the cylinder under to meet in the
  center, pinching to seal them. Roll the dough around the work surface
  under your hands, to shape it into a smooth ball about 5 inches in
  diameter. FOR AN OBLONG LOAF, roll the dough under your hands into a
  fat cigar shape, extending it to about 10 inches in length. Set the
  loaf on the floured towel and fold the ends of the towel loosely
  around it. Put the covered loaf, on its baking sheet, in a warm place
  to rise for 1 hour. Preheat an oven lined with baking tiles to 400F.
  Have a water-filled sprayer handy. Slide your hand under the towel,
  pick up the loaf, and gently deposit it upside down on the tiles.
  Spray water into the oven before closing the door, and spray twice
  more at 2-minute intervals. Bake for 50 minutes or until golden
  brown. The bread should have a hollow sound when you knock on its
  bottom.
  
  Makes 1 Loaf
  
  TOM MARESCA AND DIANE DARROW - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Usal (A Mung-Bean Curry)
 Categories: Vegetarian, Indian, Curries
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Mung beans - cooked
           - (Save the water)
      1 md Onion - chopped fine
      1    1"piece of ginger - grated
      3    Garlic cloves - minced
      1 md Tomato - chopped
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1    Green chile (opt); chopped
      1 ts Cayenne (optional/to taste)
      1 pn Turmeric
    1/2 ts Cumin powder; -AND-
      1 ts Coriander powder; -OR-
      1 ts -curry powder

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Lemon juice
           Cilantro; chopped
      2 ts Oil
 
  Method:
  
  Heat oil. Add cumin seeds, green chile. After seeds pop, add onions,
  ginger, garlic. Saute till onions are pink. Add tomato - saute some
  more. Add the spice powders. Fry briefly. Add mung beans. and may be
  a cup of water. Salt to taste. Let simmer gently for 10-15 mins.
  Granish.
  
  Serve with rice/flat breads.
  
  Freezes well.
  
  From: IN%"vyju@EE.ECN.PURDUE.EDU"  3-FEB-1993 09:39:02.44 vyju manian
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegan Chocolate Sponge Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Dessert, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Self-rising flour
           -(pref. 85% whole-wheat)
    1/4 c  Cocoa powder
      3 ts Baking powder
  1 1/3 c  Vanilla sugar
           -OR- Superfine sugar
      9 tb Sunflower oil
  1 1/2 c  Water
           Vegan margarine
           -for greasing

MMMMM------------------------TO DECORATE-----------------------------
      1    Qty. Chocolate Fudge Icing
           -OR- Chocolate Buttercream
           Dark chocolate
           -coarsely grated
           Confectioners' sugar

MMMMM-----------------VEGAN LEMON CAKE VARIATION----------------------
    1/2 c  -additional flour
      2 tb -Lemon juice
      1    -Lemon, rind grated
 
  Preheat the oven to 325 F.  Grease two 8- to 8-1/2-inch shallow cake
  pans and line the base of each with a circle of greased wax paper.
  
  Sift the flour, cocoa powder and baking powder into a bowl.  Add the
  sugar, oil and water.  Mix well to a batter-like consistency.  Pour
  the mixture into the prepared pans and bake for about 40 minutes,
  until the cakes spring back to a light touch in the center.
  
  Turn the cakes out onto a wire rack and strip off the wax paper.
  Allow to cool completely.
  
  Sandwich the cake together with half the fudge icing or chocolate
  buttercream and coat the top with the rest.  Sprinkle on a little
  grated chocolate and confectioners' sugar.
  
  Variation: VEGAN LEMON CAKE: Use the additional amount of flour and
  omit the cocoa powder.  Replace 2 tb. water with lemon juice and add
  the grated lemon rind.  Sandwich the cakes together and coat the top
  with lemon buttercream or fudge icing and decorate the cake with
  yellow sugar decorations and leaves cut from angelica.
  
  Rose Elliot, "The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegan Fruit Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  100% whole wheat flour
      1 ts Mixed spice
    1/4 lb Vegan margarine; PLUS:
      4 tb Vegan margarine
      1 c  Real Barbados sugar
  1 1/2 c  Mixed dried fruit
    1/4 c  Mixed candied peel
    1/4 c  Glac cherries
           -rinsed and halved
      1    Orange; rind grated
      2 tb Ground almonds
    1/4 c  Blanched almonds; chopped
    1/2 c  Soy milk or water
      2 tb Vinegar
    3/4 ts Baking soda
           Extra vegan margarine
           -for greasing
 
  Preheat the oven to 300 F.  Grease an 8-inch layer cake pan and line
  with a double layer of greased wax paper
  
  Sift the flour with the mixed spice into a mixing bowl.  Rub the
  margarine into the flour with your fingertips until the mixture looks
  like fine breadcrumbs, then stir in the sugar, dried fruit, mixed
  peel, cherries, orange rind, ground and blanched almonds.
  
  Warm half the soy milk or water in a small saucepan and add the
  vinegar. Dissolve the baking soda in the rest of the soy milk or
  water, then combine the two mixtures.
  
  Stir this mixture into the dry ingredients, stirring well so that
  everything is combined.  Spoon the mixture into the prepared pan.
  Bake for 2 to 2-1/2 hours, or until a skewer inserted into the center
  of the cake comes out clean.
  
  Leave the cake in the pan to cool, then remove and strip off the wax
  paper. Transfer to a wire rack and allow the cake to cool completely.
  
  Source: The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine - by Rose Elliot ISBN:
  0-394-57123-1 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegan Macaroni & "Cheese"
 Categories: Vegetarian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Cooked elbow macaroni
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      2 ea Green onions, thinly sliced
      2 ea Plum tomatoes, coarsely
           -- sliced
      2 tb Chives, minced
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 c  Cold vegetable broth
      1 c  Shredded tofu cheddar
      1 tb Dijon
           Freshly black pepper
           Salt to taste
    1/2 c  Toasted bread crumbs
 
  Lightly oil a 1 1/2-quart baking dish & pre-heat oven to 375F.  Place
  cook pasta in a large bowl.  In a skillet, bring sherry to a simmer.
  Add green onions & saute for 1 minute, stirring.  Add tomatoes &
  chives. Saute 2 minutes till tomatoes are slightly softened.  Toss
  with pasta & set aside.
  
  In a small bowl, dissolve cornstarch in cold broth & pour into
  skillet. Heat to simmering.  Add soy cheese & whisk over low heat
  till mixture is thickened.  Remove from heat.  Stir in mustard,
  pepper & salt.  Spoon into casserole dish.  Top with bread crumbs.
  Bake 20 minutes.
  
  Serve with a green salad.
  
  "The Cookbook For People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegan Pasta Al Pesto
 Categories: Vegetarian, Italian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Minced spinach leaves
    1/2 c  Minced fresh parsley
      1 tb Dried basil
      1 tb Olive oil, extra-virgin
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Light miso
    1/4 c  Pine nuts, toasted
 
  Place all ingredients in a blender & puree to a smooth paste.
  
  Toss with hot pasta of your choice.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" September, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Mafe
 Categories: Misc/food, Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      4 tb Peanut oil
      2 c  Squash
      4 ea Turnips
      4 md Potatoes, quartered
      2 lg Carrots, chopped
    1/2 sm Cabbage, chopped
      2 lg Tomatoes, chopped
      1 bn Chard
      2 ea Chili peppers
      2 c  Tomato sauce
    3/4 c  Peanut butter
 
  Brown the onions in a moderately hot oil in a large skillet.  Add
  vegetables one at a time sauteeing each one for a minute or two before
  adding the next.  Stir in tomato sauce & about a cup of water.
  Reduce heat & simmer till all the vegetables are tender.  Spoon out
  half a cup of the broth & mix it with the peanut butter to make a
  smooth paste.  Return to the pot & simmer for 15 minutes.  Serve over
  rice.
  
  "The African News Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Sausage (Hoy Jaw)
 Categories: Appetizer, Thai, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Flour
      2 tb -Water
      1 ts Coarsely chopped garlic
      1 ts Coriander root
           -- (coarsely chopped)
      1 ts Whole black peppercorns
      2 tb Oil
      2 oz Taro; peeled
           -- and coarsely chopped
      1    Carrot (more if desired)
           -- coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Water chestnuts
           -- coarsely chopped
      2 oz Pre-soaked Chinese mushrooms
           -- coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Beansprouts; coarsly chopped
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
      3 lg Beancurd sheets
           Oil; for deep-frying

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
           Lettuce
           Mint leaves
 
  Mix the flour and water to form a paste and set aside.  In a mortar
  pound together the garlic, coriander root and peppercorns to form a
  paste.  Heat the oil and briefly fry the garlic paste, then add all
  the remaining ingredients down to and including the sugar, stirring
  constantly.  Add the flour and water paste and stir to thicken.
  Remove from the heat and leave to cool.
  
  Drain the beancurd sheets and spread out on a flat surface.  Place a
  line of the cooled filling along one edge of each sheet and roll to
  form a long sausage.  Place the 3 sausages in a steamer and steam for
  15 minutes. Remove and leave to cool.
  
  When ready to serve, deep-fry the sausages until golden brown, drain
  and slice into 1/4-inch (6 mm) rounds and serve on a bed of lettuce
  and mint leaves with Plum Sauce.
  
  Vatcharin Bhumichitr "Thai Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Risotto
 Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Celery sticks, sliced
      1 ea Green pepper, chopped
      4 oz Carrots, sliced
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, crushed
      8 oz Walnut pieces
      6 oz Long grain rice
           Salt & pepper
      1 pt Vegetable stock
      1 lb Tomatoes, peeled & quartered
      4 oz Black olives
      4 oz Sweet corn
      4 oz Frozen peas
      4 tb Chopped fresh herbs
 
  Heat oil in the wok & add the garlic & walnuts.  Fry stirring
  frequently till the nuts are slightly browned.  Remove them with a
  slotted spoon. Add the prepared vegetables & cook till slightly
  softened.  Stir in the rice & season to taste.  Pour in the stock &
  bring to a boil.  Cover, reduce heat & simmer gently for 10 minutes
  or so.
  
  Mix together the tomatoes & olives.  Stir corn & peas into the
  vegetable mixture in the wok.  Place tomatoes & olives on top, do not
  stir them in & replace the lid.  Simmer for 5 minutes.  All the stock
  should be absorbed. Before serving, stir in olives & tomatoes, nuts &
  herbs.  Serve with a salad.
  
  Bridget Jones, "Wok Cookery"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Jalfrezi
 Categories: Indian, Vegetarian, Vegetable, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 oz Cauliflower florets
      3 oz Carrots, julienned
      1    Green pepper, diced
      4 oz Green peas
      4 oz Almonds
      2 oz Cashews
      1 md Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      2 ts Black pepper
      2 ts Chili powder
      1 lg Potato, boiled & diced
      1 lg Tomato, diced
      2 ts Mint
           Salt, to taste
 
  Into a pot of boiling water, drop the cauliflower, carrots, bell
  pepper, and green peas and blanch for 3 to 5 minutes.  Drain the
  vegetables and plunge them into a bowl of ice water to stop cooking.
  Set aside.
  
  Grind the almonds, cashews, and onions with water to create a smooth
  paste. In a pan, heat the oil until smoking, add the nut paste and
  stir-fry for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add the pepper and chili powder, then
  the blanched vegetables.  Add the potatoes, tomatoes, and paneer
  (homemade cheese). Continue stirring while heating through. Add mint
  and salt. Makes 4 to 6 servings.
  
  From: The Shiva Indian Restaurant, 2514 Times Blvd, Houston Texas
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Loaf
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 lg Onion, diced
      1 ea Green pepper, diced
      2 ea Celery stalks, diced
      2 ea Carrots, diced
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, sliced
    2/3 c  Tamari
      1 ea Salt to taste, if needed
      1 ts Parsley
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      4 lg Potatoes, boiled & mashed
    1/4 c  Soy milk
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      3 tb Orange juice
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
 
  Heat oil in a skillet   Add the garlic & onions & saute for 3
  minutes. Add the carrots, celery, green peppers & mushrooms &
  continue to saute for 5 minutes. Season well with the herbs & spices,
  including the tamari.
  
  Combine the mashed potatoes with the soy milk.  Add the saute to the
  potato mixture.
  
  In a bowl, combine the oil, orange juice & salt.  Gradually add the
  flour til lthe texture is moist & pliable.  Roll the dough out on a
  floured board.  Place rolled dough in a rectangular casserole so that
  the edges flop over the sides.  Spoon the vegetables into the centre
  of the dough. moisten the edges of the dough & seal into a loaf shape.
  
  Place on a cookie shhet or leave in the casserole, making sure that
  whatever you use is oiled to prevent sticking.  Bake for 40 minutes at
  375F.
  
  Serve with vegetables on the side, such as mashed turnip, peas or
  beans, & cabbage.  Or whatever.
  
  "The Cookbook For People Who Love Animals"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Patties with Peanut Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Yellow split peas, soaked
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped onions
      2 ts Chopped garlic
    1/2 tb Minced ginger root
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Cayenne
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped cilantro
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Wholewheat breadcrumbs
      4 tb Safflower oil
      1 ea Southeast Asian peanut sauce
 
  Drain peas & rinse well.  Place in medium pot with water & 1/2 cup of
  chopped onion.  Stir in garlic, cumin, ginger, cayenne & salt.  Bring
  to a boil & simmer for 30 minutes, till all the liquid is absorbed.
  Cool slightly.
  
  In a blender, combine the peas with the remaining onions, pepper &
  cilantro.  Puree for 1 minute.  Transfer to a mixing bowl & add lemon
  juice & bread crumbs.  Mix well.  If too dry, add a little water.
  Shape into 8 patties.
  
  Heat 2 tb oil in a medium skillet.  Cook the patties for 7 minutes on
  each side.  Drain on paper towels.  Serve with peanut sauce.
  
  "Vegetarian Times", April 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Enchiladas
 Categories: Main dish, Tex/mexican, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 ea Corn tortillas
    1/2 c  Salsa sauce
      1 ts Olive oil
    1/3 c  Thinly sliced onions
      1 ea Garlic clove, sliced
    1/2 c  Cubed eggplant
    1/4 c  Grated zucchini
      1 tb Sherry, optional
    1/4 cn Diced green chilies
      2 tb Minced cilantro
 
  Place tortillas in shallow pan.  Spread salsa over them to soften
  them. Let sit for 5 minutes.  Turn tortiallas over & coat the other
  side.
  
  While the tortillas are softening, heat oil in a skillet & saute
  onion for 3 minutes, stirring frequently.  Add garlic, eggplant,
  zucchini & sherry if using.  Cook, stirring often, for 5 minutes or
  so, till eggplant begins to stick.  Remove from heat & stir in
  chilies.
  
  Pre-heat oven to 400F.  Lightly oil a baking tin.  Remove each
  tortilla from the sauce & fill with one quarter of the sauteed
  vegetables.  Roll up tortillas & place seam side down in baking tin.
  Top with the rest of the sauce & cilantro.  Bake for 15 minutes,
  until evenly browned.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" September, 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Curry with Cashews
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Ghee
      2 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
    1/4 ts Cayenne
      2 ts Coriander
      1 ts Cumin
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ea 3/4" piece of ginger, sliced
      2 md Eggplants
      1 sm Cauliflower, divided into
           -- florets
      2 md Potatoes, diced
      4 oz Green beans, chopped
      1 ea Fresh green chili, chopped
      2 oz Grated coconut
      4 oz Boiling water
      1 lb Tomatoes, skinned & chopped
           Salt
      4 oz Toasted cashews
 
  Heat ghee in large skillet & fry the garlic & spices for 3 to 4
  minutes, stirring frequently.
  
  Blanch eggplants in boiling water for 4 to 5 minutes.  Drain & dice
  them.
  
  Add all the vegetables, including the chili, to the pan.  Fry gently
  for 7 minutes, stirring to mix thoroughly.  Dissolve grated coconut
  in the boiling water & mix with vegetables.  Add tomatoes, cover &
  cook for 20 minutes.
  
  Just before serving, stir in toasted cashews & serve over rice.
  
  Sarah Brown's "Vegetarian Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Stew with Nut Dumplings
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Potatoes
      1 ea Parsley sprig
    1/4 lb Carrots
      1 ea Celery leaf
    1/4 lb Parsnips
      2 oz Onions
    1/4 lb Turnips
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 tb All purpose flour
           ---------DUMPLINGS----------
      2 tb Oil
      4 tb Wholewheat flour
    1/4 c  Wholewheat breadcrumbs
    1/4 c  Finely chopped walnuts
 
  Cut peeled & washed vegetables into small cubes.  Combine oil & 1 1/2
  cups of vegetables.  Cook till ight brown.  Add flour & mix well.
  Add a pint of water & the rest of the vegetables.  Cook slowly for
  about 90 minutes. Season to taste & serve with the dumplings.
  
  DUMPLINGS: Work oil into flour, crumbs & nuts.  Add enough water to
  make a stiff dough.  Roll & cut into walnut sized pieces.  Cook for
  25 minutes in rapidly boiling water.
  
  "The Vegetarian Times Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Relish
 Categories: Relish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 kg Ripe tomatoes
      2 md Onions
      1 kg Zucchini
    500 g  Red bell peppers
    500 g  Green bell peppers
      2 ea Garlic cloves
      2 tb Salt
      2 c  Cider vinegar
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Cornflour
      2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
  Peel & coarsely chop the tomatoes & onions.  Coarsely chop the
  zucchini & peppers.  Combine in a bowl.  Process in a food processor
  in several batches till they are finely chopped.  Place in a large
  bowl, sprinkle with salt & let stand, covered, overnight.
  
  Place vegetables in colander & drain excess liquid.  Place in a large
  pot, add vinegar & sugar & stir over low heat till the sugar is
  dissolved. Bring to a boil & simmer for 3 minutes.  Combine the
  remaining ingredients & blend till smooth.  Add to the vegetables &
  bring to a boil, stirring constantly.  Simmer till thickened.  Remove
  from heat & pour into warm sterile jars.  Seal.
  
  Letts, "Jams, Pickles & Chutneys"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Dahl Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian, Vegetable, Indian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Yellow split peas
      3 tb Mung beans
      3 tb Basmati rice
      2 tb Ghee
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/8 ts Asafetida
    1/2 sm Seeded green chili
      1 ea 1/2" piece of ginger root
      2 ea Medium sized carrots, sliced
    1/2 sm Cauliflower, in florets
      6 ea Red radishes
  5 1/4 c  Stock
      1 tb Cumin
      1 tb Coriander
      1 ts Garam masala
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Minced coriander
 
  Soak the split peas in hot water for 1 hour & drain.  Wash the Mung
  beans well & pick out any loose stones & sticks, etc.
  
  Combine rice, legumes, ghee, turmeric, asafetida, chili, ginger root,
  vegetables & stock in large pot.  Cook for about one hour.
  
  Blend the vegetables at high speed to make a very creamy & smooth
  soup & return to the pot.
  
  Sprinkle in the ground coriander, cumin & garam masala.  Heat till
  almost boiling & simmer gently for 2 to 3 minutes, stirring to
  prevent burning.
  
  Add the black pepper, salt & minced coriander & serve.
  
  Yamuna Devi, "The Art of Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Momos
 Categories: Asian, Appetizer, Vegetarian
      Yield: 18 servings
 
      2 tb Ghee
    1/2 tb Minced ginger
    1/2 tb Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Diced onion
      1 ts Garam masala
    1/2 ts Chili
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2 c  Mixed vegetables, parboiled
           -- finely chopped
      1 c  Tofu, squeezed & crumbled
           Momo wrappers see recipe
           Momo sauce - see recipe
 
  Melt ghee in a wok or skillet.  Add ginger, garlic & onion & stir fry
  for 1 minute.  Add garam masala, chili powder, pepper, salt & soy
  sauce. Stir-fry for 30 seconds.  Add vegetables & mix well.  Remove
  from heat & place in a bowl.  Add tofu & toss well.  Allow to cool &
  drain off excess liquid. Put 1 tb of filling into each momo wrapper &
  seal closed with a little water. Steam over a steaming rack for 15 to
  20 minutes.  Serve hot with momo sauce.
  
  Adapted from Betty Jung, "The Kopan Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Curry
 Categories: Asian, Main dish, Indian, Vegetarian, Vegetable
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Ghee
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds, crushed
    1/2 ts Coriander seeds, crushed
      1 tb Ginger root, minced
      1 tb Garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Onion, diced
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Garam masala
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 ea Dried red chili, minced
      2 ea Bay leaves
      2 c  Mixed vegetables, chopped
      1 c  Potatoes, diced
      1 c  Tomatoes, diced
      1 c  Water
      1 ts White vinegar
      1 tb Tamari
      1 ts Pepper
 
  Heat ghee in a large pot.  Add cumin, coriander, ginger, garlic &
  onion & stir-fry for 1 minute.  Add turmeric, garam masala, chili
  powder, minced red chili & bay leaves.  Mix well & stir-fry for
  another minute.  Add vegetables, potatoes & tomatoes.  Mix well &
  cook for another 5 minutes. Add water & bring to a boil.  Add
  remaining ingredients.  Serve hot over boiled rice.
  
  Adapted from Betty Jung, "The Kopan Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 oz Bulgur wheat
    1/4 c  Canola oil
  1 1/4 c  Finely chopped mushrooms
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped carrots
      2 c  Finely chopped onions
      2 tb Minced garlic
    3/4 c  Walnuts
    1/2 c  Sunflower seeds
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
    1/3 c  Chopped parsley
      2 tb Chopped dill
      3 tb Tahini (sesame seed paste)
  1 1/4 c  Cooked chickpeas
      3 tb Tamari
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    3/4 ts Ground cumin
           Oil
           -for rubbing burgers & grill
 
  Put bulgar in a bowl of hot water, soak for 10 minutes or until
  tender,drain.
  
  Heat oil in a skilled, saute mushrooms, carrots, onions, garlic for 15
  mins. Let cook.
  
  Grind walnuts and sunflower seeds, put into a bowl, add sesame seeds,
  bulgur, and wheat germ.
  
  Mix sauteed vegetables with parsley, dill, cahini, chickpeas, tamari,
  lemon juice, cayenne, salt, pepper, and cumin until blended (small
  lumps ok).
  
  Add to the sesame-bulgur mixture, mix well.
  
  Chill thoroughly to firm the mixture.
  
  Shape into patties, pat with oil, cook 4 minutes on each side, flip
  carefully with a Wide spatula to keep from falling apart.
  
  Serve on toasted rolls with slices of tomato, sprouts, cucumber,
  yogurt.
  
  Serves 8 to 10, depending upon size of patties/rolls.
  
  Yum, with a nice chopped (medium dice) marinated fresh vegetable
  salad or coleslaw or carrot slaw.
  
  From: swelch@pioneer.arc.nasa.gov (Shaun Welch) @Newsgroups:
  rec.food.recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Lasagne:
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      9    Lasagne noodles
           -(OR as much as needed)
      1 lb Tofu
    1/2 c  Tomato paste (or sauce)
      1    -to:
      2 c  Tomato sauce
           -(as much as desired)
      1 bn Chard (or spinach)
      3 tb Nutritional yeast
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Basil
      3 tb Canola oil
      3 sm Onions; -OR-
      1 lb Mushrooms
      3    Celery stalks
  1 1/2 c  Cauliflower
 
  Mash up the tofu in a bowl and add salt, nutritional yeast, spices,
  tomato paste.  Chop the celery, caulflower, and onion finely and
  saute in oil. When mostly cooked add the mushrooms, sliced.  When the
  mushrooms are done, add the vegetables to the tofu and mix well.
  
  Cook the lasagne noodles in water until done.  This can be done
  beforehand to save time.  Grease your casserole pan lightly with some
  oil to help prevent sticking.  Place a layer of noodles down and
  spoon some tomato sauce over it.  Put a layer of tofu/veggies down.
  
  Saute the chard (or spinach) in a pan with just a little bit of oil.
  When completely cooked down and soft, add half to the lasagne,
  spreading evenly over the layer.  Add more sauce then noodles, then
  tofu than another layer of chard.  Top with more sauce, more noodles
  and a large amount of sauce (to prevent any burning or drying out of
  the noodles when they're cooked). Preheat oven to about 350 or 375
  and cook roughly 35 minutes, or until bubbly and hot.  SERVE!  I
  guarantee it'll be among the best lasagne you've ever had....
  
  From: tara@starburst.umd.edu (Tara McDermott) @Newsgroups:
  rec.food.veg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Saute with Miso Sauce over Linguine
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetarian, Low-cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Safflower oil
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
    1/4 c  Sliced shittake mushrooms
    1/2 c  Zucchini, sliced
    1/2 c  Eggplant, sliced
    1/2 c  Yellow pepper, sliced
      8    Scallions; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Miso
      1 c  Vegetable stock
      4 tb Fresh chopped parsley
      1 lb Cooked linguine
 
  In a large saucepan, heat oil over medium heat.  Add veggies and
  garlic and saute for about 3 minutes.  Transfer to bowl.  Add miso.
  Slowly add stock while stirring well.  Add parsley, veggies and
  pasta.  Toss and serve. Add more liquid if too thick.
  
  From Bruce Jacobs, Head Chef of Bristol Farms Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Gumbo
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Onion, chopped
    1/2    Green pepper, diced
      2    Ribs Celery, diced
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1 lb Okra, sliced, fresh, frozen
      1 lb Tomatoes, fresh, or canned
      2 c  Corn, fresh, frozen, canned
      1 ts Vegetable Bouillon granules
    1/2 c  White Grape Juice
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
    1/4 ts Paprika
      2 tb Fresh chopped parsley
      1 tb Basil or Rosemary, minced
           Vegetable coating spray
 
  Method: In a large heavy stew pot, place bouillon and 1/2 C white
  grape juice, onion, green pepper, celery garlic, cook until tender,
  5-7 minutes. Add other ingredients, cook over low heat, stirring
  occasionally to keep from sticking to bottom. Cover and simmer gently
  until corn and okra are done. (or simmer in crockpot 6-7 hours)
  
  Note:  Cut fresh corn from cob with a sharp knife, then scrape the
  remaining corn off the cob.  Four ears will make about two cups. If
  you use dried herbs, rub them with the palms of your hands before
  adding to the pot, this releases their aroma and goodness.
  
  Exchanges:  1 Veg, 1 Bread, and 107 calories. Update old family
  favorite - Alice in Houston
  
  A.BROADDUS [Alice in Hou]    at 08:55 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Pullao
 Categories: Vegetarian, Indian, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Whole mung bean
           -- picked over and washed
      2 c  Long-grain rice
  4 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Whole black mustard seeds
      1 md Onion
           -- peeled and finely chopped
      4 md Garlic cloves
           -- peeled and finely minced
      1 ts Peeled, minced ginger
    1/3 lb String beans; trimmed
           -- and cut into 1/4" pieces
      2 ts Garam masala
  1 1/2 ts Ground coriander
  2 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Finely minced parsley
           -- preferably Chinese
 
  Put mung beans in a bowl with 3 cups water.  Cover lightly and set
  aside for 12 hours.  Drain beans and wrap in a very damp dish towel.
  Put the wrapped bundle in a bowl.  Put this bowl in a dark place
  (like an unused oven) for 24 hours.
  
  Wash rice well and soak in 4 cups of water for half an hour.  Drain
  well.
  
  Preheat oven to 325 F.
  
  Heat oil in a wide, heavy, 4- to 5-quart ovenproof pot over a
  medium-high flame.  When hot, put in mustard seeds.  As soon as the
  mustard seeds begin to pop (this takes just a few seconds), put in
  the onion.  Stir and fry for about 5 minutes or until onion turns
  brown at the edges.  Add the garlic and ginger.  Fry, stirring, for
  about 1 minute.  Turn heat to medium-low and add the mung beans,
  rice, string beans, mushrooms, garam masala, ground coriander, and
  salt.  Stir and saute for about 10 minutes or until rice turns
  translucent and vegetables are well coated with oil. Add 4 cups hot
  water and the minced parsley.  Turn heat to a medium-high flame and
  cook, stirring, for about 5 minutes or until most of the water is
  absorbed. (There will be an inch or so of water at the bottom.)
  Cover the pot first with aluminum foil, crimping and sealing the
  edges, and then with its own lid.  Place in heated oven for half an
  hour.  Fluff up with a fork and serve.
  
  Source: Madhur Jaffrey's World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking Typos
  by: Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetables with Peanut Sauce
 Categories: Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------THE SAUCE------------------------------
  3 1/2 c  -Water
      3 tb Natural peanut butter
      2 tb Cooking oil
      1 md Onion; chopped
      4 md Tomatoes; peeled, chopped
      1 tb Tomato puree
    1/2    Green pepper
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/4 ts Thyme
           Scotch Bonnet pepper
           -- to taste
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1    Vegetable stock cube
           -- crumbled

MMMMM-----------------------THE VEGETABLES----------------------------
      2    Yellow plantains
           Peanut oil; for frying
      1 tb Butter (or margarine)
      2    Carrots; cut lengthwise,
           -- then into thin sticks
    1/2 lb Green beans; trimmed
      1 md Onion; sliced
           Green onions; to garnish
 
  SAUCE: Heat 1 cup of the water and add peanut butter, stir and allow
  to cook for 10 minutes, stirring to prevent sticking, then set aside.
  Put the oil into the saucepan, then add the onions and cook for 5
  minutes together. Add all the other sauce ingredients, and the rest
  of the water (2 1/2 cups) and the peanut sauce.  Stir well and simmer
  for 20 minutes.
  
  VEGETABLES: Peel the plantain, and slice and fry in hot oil until
  brownish on both sides.  Drain on paper towels.  Put the butter (or
  margarine) into a pan, on a moderate heat, saute the carrots, beans
  and onions for 15 minutes, then serve the vegetables onto plates with
  the plantains, pour the sauce over the vegetables and garnish with
  green onions.
  
  Source: Caribbean and African Cooking, by Rosamund Grant Typos by:
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Ginger Snaps
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Shortening
      1 c  White sugar
      2 ts White vinegar
    1/2 c  Molasses
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      2 c  White flour
 
  Beat shortening till fluffy.  Add sugar & continue to beat until well
  combined.  Add the rest of the ingredients in order, beating well
  after each addition.  When the ingredients are well mixed, wrap the
  mixture in waxed paper & refrigerate for 1 hour to make the dough
  easier to handle.
  
  On a floured board, roll out the dough until it is about an 1/8 inch
  thick. Using a cookie cutter, cut into cookies & place on a cookie
  sheet. Bake 8 to 10 minutes at 275F.  Cool for a couple of minutes on
  the sheet & then remove to a wire rack to cool.
  
  Posted by Mark Satterly in Intercook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Paella
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Paella
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
  1 1/4 c  Long-grain brown rice
      1 lg Onion; peeled and sliced
      2 lg Garlic cloves; crushed
      1 pn Saffron strands
      3 c  Light Vegetable Stock
           -(generous measure) OR water
    1/2    Lemon; thinly pared rind,
           - cut into thin shreds
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 lb Washed and trimmed leeks
           - cut into 1-inch lengths
    1/4 c  Frozen peas
    1/4 c  Black olives, or more

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
           Parsley; chopped
 
  Heat the oil in a large, deep pan.  Add the long-grain brown rice and
  onion slices and stir until the rice is coated and begins to turn
  opaque. Add the garlic, saffron, stock or wate, lemon rind and salt
  and pepper. Mix well, then bring to a boil.  Mix again, to distribute
  the saffron coloring.
  
  Arrange the vegetables and olives attractively on top of the rice.
  Bring to a boil.  Cover with a lid or foil and simmer for 45 minutes.
  
  Sprinkle with parsley and serve straight from the pan.
  
  May be served with blanched almonds, slivered Brazil nuts or whole
  cashew nuts- separately, in a bowl - for people to help themselves to
  if they like.
  
  Variation: VEGETARIAN PAELLA WITH ARTICHOKES: Use 4 to 6 globe
  artichokes instead of the leeks.  Very tender baby artichokes can
  simply be quartered; otherwise cut the leaves and choke from the
  artichokes, then halve or quarter the artichoke bottoms.  Garnish
  with artichoke leaves.
  
  Rose Elliot, "The Complete Vegetarian Cuisine"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Kishke
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Celery stalks; chopped fine
      1    Carrot; grated
      1 lg Onion; chopped finely
    1/2 c  Oil
  1 1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/4 c  Wheat germ
      2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ds Pepper
      2 tb Soy sauce
 
  Kishke traditionally is prepared by stuffing a seasoned mixture of
  flour, onion and meat into casings.  This recipe is a flavorful
  vegetarian version.
  
  Mix all ingredients in a large bowl.  Spoon half of the mixture onto a
  piece of aluminum foil and roll into a cylinder.  Repeat with
  remaining mixture.
  
  Place cylinders on a cookie sheet or baking pan.  Bake at 350 degrees
  for 45 minutes.  Turn cylinders upside down and cook for an
  additional 45 minutes.  Remove and discard foil.
  
  From an old Vegetarian Times magazine. Uploaded by Nan Blanchard;
  73540,700
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Ma Po Tofu
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6    Dried Chinese blk mushrooms
      2    3 x 2 x 1-inch pieces tofu
           - cut into 1/2-inch cubes
      8 c  Water
      1 tb Canned preserved vegetable
           --(Szechwan, minced)
           -- rinsed
      5 tb Cold water
      2 tb Seasoned Vegetable Broth
      4 ts Chili oil
      1 tb Brown bean sauce
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Oriental sesame oil
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Finely chopped green onions
  1 1/2 tb Minced garlic
      2 ts Finely chopped fresh ginger
    3/4 c  Fresh or frozen peas; thawed
    1/4 ts Szechwan Peppercorn Powder
 
  Cover mushrooms with hot water and let stand 1 hour.  Drain; cut off
  stems. Rinse caps well; squeeze dry.  Cut into 1/8-inch dice.  Set
  aside.
  
  Place tofu in large sieve.  Bring 8 cups water to boil.  Pour into
  metal bowl just larger than sieve.  Place sieve gently in water.  Let
  tofu soak 30 minutes.
  
  Drain tofu.  Mix mushrooms and preserved vegetable in medium bowl.
  Mix 5 tablespoons water and next 8 ingredients in small bowl.
  
  Heat vegetable oil in wok or heavy large skillet over high heat 1
  minute. Add green onions, garlic and ginger and stir-fry 1 minute.
  Add mushroom mixture and stir-fry 1 minute.  Stir broth mixture.  Add
  to wok with peas and stir-fry until sauce boils, about 1 minute.  Add
  tofu and toss gently to coat with sauce.  Cook 2 1/2 minutes, tossing
  gently.  Divide between plates.  Sprinkle Szechwan powder over
  (recipe follows).
  
  SZECHWAN PEPPERCORN POWDER:  (Makes about 4 teaspoons) Heat heavy
  frying pan or wok over medium-low heat 1 minute.  Add 1 tablespoon
  whole Szechwan peppercorns and stir until aromatic, about 4 minutes.
  Transfer to blender. Cool 10 minutes.  Blend to a fine powder. Store
  at room temperature.
  
  Source: Bon Appetit, November 1988. Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut Rosemary Quinoa
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 sm Onion
  1 1/4 c  Quinoa, thoroughly rinsed
      1 sm Red bell pepper, diced
      3 c  Water
      1 ts Tamari soy sauce
      1 ts Fresh rosemary OR
    1/2 ts Dried rosemary
      1 c  Fresh or frozen peas
    1/2 c  Walnuts, chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Heat oil in a saucepan and add onion and
  quinoa. Saute over medium heat, stirring constantly for 3 minutes.
  Add red bell pepper and saute an additional 2 minutes. Add water, soy
  sauce and rosemary. (If using fresh peas, add them now.) Bring
  contents to a boil; cover and simmer 15 minutes.
  
  Meanwhile, roast walnuts in 350 degree oven for 5 minutes. When
  quinoa is cooked, turn off heat and mix in walnuts and frozen peas.
  Let set an additional 10 minutes and serve.
  
  From _Favorite Vegetarian Recipes_ from the Society for Texas Animal
  Rights. Recipe by John Mackey, CEO, Whole Foods Markets, Austin,
  Texas.
  
  DEEANNE [EatMoVeggies]       at 19:13 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Washed Lentils
 Categories: Indian, Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Lentils
  2 1/2 c  Water
           Salt
      2 ea Garlic cloves
      1 ea Green chili, chopped
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
      3 tb Ghee
      1 ts Cumin seeds
           Chili powder
 
  Wash lentils thoroughly.  Place in pot with the water & bring to a
  boil over medium heat.  Cook about 10 minutes.
  
  Stir in salt, garlic, chili & mustard.  Lower heat & simmer for 30
  minutes till lentils are soft.
  
  In a skillet, heat the ghee & toss in the cumin seeds & chili powder.
  
  Top cooked dahl just before serving with ghee mixture.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: West African Groundnut Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ea Sweet potatoes
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      3 tb Grated ginger
      2 tb Coriander
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 md Toamtoes, chopped
      4 c  Eggplant
    1/2 c  Stock
      1 c  Zucchini
      2 ea Green peppers, chopped
      2 c  Tomato juice
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
 
  Boil the potatoes till they are just tender.  Saute the garlic &
  ginger with the spices for 1 minute & then add the onion.  Saute for
  a few minutes longer.  Add tomatoes, eggplant & a splash of the
  water.  Simmer for 10 minutes.  Add the zucchini & peppers & simmer
  for 20 minutes.
  
  Drain the potatoes, mash roughly & add to the stew.  Add the juice &
  peanut butter.  Stir well.  Simmer for 5 to 10 minutes.
  
  Serve on rice or millet & garnish with pineapple or banana slices.
  
  "New Recipes From Moosewood Restaurant"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice with Quinoa
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Wild rice, washed & soaked
    1/2 c  Quinoa
 
  Combine the water & soy sauce in a pot & bring to a boil over medium
  high heat.  Add wild rice & cover, reduce heat & simmer for 30
  minutes.  Add the quinoa, cover & simmer for a furtehr 20 minutes or
  until the water is all absorbed.  Remove from heat & allow to steam,
  covered for 5 minutes. Fluff with a fork.
  
  "Quick & Natural Rice Dishes"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice and Hazelnut Salad
 Categories: Salad, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Wild rice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Hazelnuts
      5 tb Currants
      1 lg Orange, juice only
           Citrus Vinaigrette
           - with Hazelnut Oil
           - (See RECIPE)
      1 sm Fennel bulb
           - cut into small squares
      1    Crisp apple
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Salt
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Rinse the wild rice, and soak it in water for a
  half hour, then drain. Add 4 cups fresh water and salt, and bring to
  a boil. Cook, covered, at a simmer until the grains are swollen and
  tender, but still chewy, about 30 to 35 minutes. Pour the cooked rice
  into a colander and let it drain briefly. While the rice is cooking,
  toast the hazelnuts in the oven, 7 to 10 minutes, or until they smell
  toasty. Let them cool a few minutes; then rub them in a small kitchen
  towel to remove most of the skins. Don't worry about any flecks of
  skins that won't come off. Roughly chop the hazelnuts, leaving the
  pieces fairly large. Rinse the currants in warm water and squeeze
  them dry; then cover them with the orange juice and let them soak
  until needed. Prepare the vinaigrette. Add the soaked currants and
  the fennel to the warm rice, and toss with the dressing. Just before
  serving, cut the apple into small pieces, add it to the rice, along
  with the hazelnuts, and toss. Season with freshly ground black
  pepper, and additional salt, if needed, and serve.
  
  Deborah Madison, "Prodigy Guest Chefs Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice with Chestnuts
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
      5 md Shallots
           - peeled and finely chopped
      2    Celery ribs; finely chopped
      1 c  Wild rice; rinsed
    1/3 c  Dried, peeled chestnuts
    1/4 c  Dried currants
      2 ts Aniseed
    1/4 ts Sea salt; or to taste
      4 c  Water
      1 ts Finely chopped orange zest
           -OR- grated
 
  PRESSURE COOKER: Heat the oil in the cooker.  Add the shallots and
  celery and cook, stirring frequently, until softened slightly, about
  1 minute. Stir in the rice, chestnuts, currants, aniseed, salt, and
  water.
  
  Lock the lid in place and over high heat bring to high pressure.
  Lower the heat just enough to maintain high pressure and cook for 25
  minutes. Allow the pressure to come down naturally or use a quick
  release method. Remove the lid, tilting it away from you to allow any
  excess steam to escape. If the rice or chestnuts are not quite
  cooked, return to high pressure for a few minutes.
  
  Drain (reserving the liquid for stock) and return to the pot.  Cover
  and let steam over low heat for a few minutes to dry out.  Fluff up
  as you stir in the orange peel.  Break up chestnuts into 2 to 3
  pieces with a fork, if desired.
  
  STANDARD STOVETOP: Soak the chestnuts overnight.  Drain and reserve
  the water.  In a heavy 2-quart saucepan, heat the oil.  Add the
  shallots and celery and saute for 1 minute.  Add the chestnut soaking
  liqiud plus enough water to equal 3 cups and bring to a boil.  Stir
  in the rice, reserved chestnuts, currants, aniseed, and salt.  Return
  to the boil, cover, reduce heat, and simmer until most of the grains
  have butterflied and almost all the liquid has been absorbed, about
  50 minutes.  Let stand, covered, off heat for 10 minutes.  If there
  is still liquid left in the bottom of the pot, lift out the rice with
  a slotted spoon.
  
  Source: Recipes from an Ecological Kitchen - by Lorna J. Sass ISBN:
  0-688-10051-1 Typed by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice Crepes
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CREPES--------------------------------
      2 tb Egg replacer (or arrowroot)
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Soy milk
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Oil
      2 c  Flour
    1/2    Garbanzo flour

MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Wild rice, uncooked
  2 3/4 c  Stock
    1/4 md Onion; minced
      2 sm Stalks celery; sliced thin
      2 tb Unrefined corn oil
    3/4 md Onion; chopped coarse
    1/4 lb Button mushrooms
           - sliced thick
      6    Shiitake
           - fresh or reconstitued,
           - quartered or eighthed
    1/2    Oyster mushrooms
           -OR- chanrerelles mushrooms
           -If using oysters, separate
           -them into small clumps,
           -if using chanterelles,
           -halve them
      1 lg Tomato; chopped
    1/2 ts Powdered sage
      1 pn Powdered thyme
      1 tb Shoyu
           Salt and pepper; to taste

MMMMM---------------------NUTTY ALMOND SAUCE--------------------------
      3 tb Unrefined corn oil
           -OR- soy margarine
      4 tb Unbleached flour
  2 1/2 c  Soy milk; heated
    1/2 c  Almonds
    1/4 md Onion; separated into leaves
      4    Cloves
           White pepper; to taste
      3 ds Freshly grated nutmeg
           Salt; to taste
 
  FOR CREPES: Blend the egg replacer w/1/2C water until smooth.  Add
  remaining ingredients and blend one minute at high speed.
  
  Heat a crepe pan or non stick 8" skillet over low heat, brush the
  bottom lightly w/oil (I use unrefined corn oil).  When pan is heated,
  take it off the burner, let cool about three seconds and pour 3-4T
  batter into it. Swirl the pan so the bottom is coated w/a thin layer
  of batter.  Put the pan back on the burner and cook until lightly
  browned.  Flip the crepe and cook until that side is lightly browned
  as well.  Repeat w/remaining batter.  This makes about a dozen
  crepes.  Note that you will inevitably screw up the first crepe or
  two, but it will become fairly routine after that.  Don't worry about
  it, I still do that after all these years.
  
  FOR STUFFING: Saute the onion in a little dry white wine for a minute
  or two, then add wild rice and stock, cover tightly, bring to a boil,
  turn heat to low and cook about an hour, until all liquid is absorbed.
  
  While the rice cooks, saute celery in oil until slightly tender, add
  onions and all mushrooms, and saute until all vegs are medium tender.
  Add cooked rice, tomato and seasoning and cook another ten minutes or
  so. Fill crepes w/the mixture, roll them over it and heat in a
  preheated oven at 350 for about ten minutes.
  
  Serve w/Nutty Almond Sauce and garnish w/parsley and a twisted orange
  slice.
  
  FOR NUTTY ALMOND SAUCE: Toast almonds until golden, then pulverize.
  (Don't overgrind or you'll get almond butter.)
  
  Heat oil a few minutes in a heavy bottomed skillet, then stir in
  flour and cook 2-3 minutes on low, until fragrant.  Stir in soy milk
  and continue to stir until it begins to thicken, then stir in
  seasonings. Cover and cook 10 more minutes, but stir often to prevent
  scorching. Stir in almonds and cook another 4-5 minutes.
  
  Serve w/a simple spinach salad w/mustard vinaigrette and French bread,
  along w/a chilled white wine.
  
  From _The_Now_and_Zen_Epicure_ by Miyoko Nishimoto, Summerville, TN,
  The Book Publishing Co, 1991.
  
  From: mad4@ellis.uchicago.edu (Bill Maddex)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yellow Rice
 Categories: Indian, Side dish, Rice, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Ghee
      1 md Onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      2 ea Bay leaves
      4 ea Cloves
      4 ea Black peppercorns
      2 ea 1" cinnmaon sticks
      2 ea Black cardamom pods
      2 c  Brown rice, presoaked
    3/4 c  Water
      3 tb Green peas
      1 ts Salt
      1 pn Saffron
 
  Heat ghee in a skillet.  Saute onion over a medium heat till golden.
  Reserve some of the onion for garnishing later.
  
  Add turmeric to the skillet.  Stir & heat briefly.  Add the rest of
  the spices in order.  Mix well.
  
  Add the rice & stir a few times.  Pour over water, stir & bring to a
  boil. Reduce heat, mix in peas & salt, cover & cook for 10 to 15
  minutes. Sprinkle with saffron & reserved sauted onion.  Serve hot.
  
  Michael Pandya, "Indian Vegetarian Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zesty Green Split Peas
 Categories: Vegetarian, Low-cal/fat, Vegetable
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Green split peas;uncooked
      8 c  -Water
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Ground tumeric
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Canola oil;(I used 2 Tsp)
      2 ts Ginger; peeled & minced
      2 ts Jalapenos; seeded & chopped
      4 tb Black mustard seeds; ground*
      3 tb -Water
      3 oz Coconut, shredded sweetened
      1 pn Soy margarine (optional)

MMMMM------------------------FOR GARNISH-----------------------------
           Cilantro, chopped (optional)
 
  *If black mustard seeds are not available, use 1 Tbs dry mustard.
  
  Mix ground mustard powder in with water and allow to sit for 30
  minutes.
  
  Bring split peas and water to a boil.  Lower heat to medium. Add bay
  leaves and tumeric (I forgot the tumeric--was good anyway). Simmer,
  covered, until peas are done, 40 to 45 minutes.  (When pressed
  between the thumb and the index finger, they break easily.) While
  simmering, uncover occasionally and stir, adding a Tbs or so of hot
  water if the mixture sticks to the bottom of the pan.  When cooked,
  remove and discard bay leaves. Add salt and keep warm.  Heat oil in a
  small, 6-inch skillet over medium-low heat. Saute ginger root and
  jalape o until ginger is lightly browned, 1 to 2 minutes. Add mustard
  paste and cook for another minute, stirring constantly. Add coconut
  and stir several times. Remove from heat. Pour over the pea mixture
  and stir. (I had to drain my peas, because I still had lots of water
  in mine.)  Let stand covered for 15 minutes. Add a dab of soy
  margarine if desired and garnish with cilantro. (I didn't use the
  cilantro)
  
  I think this would make a good filling for pita pockets. I didn't
  think the peas were "zesty" enough, so I sprinkled hot pepper vinegar
  on mine.
  
  Per serving:  113 cal; 5g prot; 5g fat (with 2 TBS of oil); 13g carb;
  0 chol; 274mg sod; 3g fiber.
  
  From Vegetarian Times magazine  date unknown
  
  J.DUCKETT1 [Kat]             at 23:13 EDT
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Squash Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Beef
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      5    Zucchini (or any other
           -variety of summer squash)
      2 tb Oil
      4    Garlic cloves
      4 lg Onions, diced
      2    Carrots, diced
      1    Green pepper, diced
      5 tb Tahini or peanut butter
      3 tb Tamari
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Sea salt
    1/8 ts Red pepper (optional)
    1/2 c  Sesame seeds
    1/2 c  Sunflower seed meal
      1 c  Corn meal, or flour, or soy
           -powder
 
   Slice the zucchini and place in a large pot with 1/2 cup water,
  adding enough squash to fill the pot. Steam over medium heat for 7
  minutes, until soft.
  
   Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat; add the garlic,
  onions, carots, cleery, and pepper; saute for 7 minutes, till
  vegetables are tender.
  
   Drain the zucchini and mash well. Add the sauteed vegetables, tahini,
  seasonings, sesame seeds, sunflower seed meal, and corn meal. The
  batter should be thick not wet--add flour if needed.
  
   Preheat oven to 375. Oil a cookie sheet. Using a tablespoon, make
  patties and place them on the sheet.
   Bake for 8 minutes on each side, until golden brown.
  
   From _The Cookbook for People Who Love Animals_ from Gentle World
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini W/toasted Almonds
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetable, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Zucchini
    1/2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 tb Pressed garlic
           Salt; to taste
    1/2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Sliced almonds
           - pan toasted until golden
 
  Slice zucchini lengthwise into 1/4" slices.  Stack and cut into 1"
  squares. Steam until just tender, 2-3 minutes, then saute in oil on
  med high another half minute or so.  Stir in garlic, remove from
  heat, finish w/lemon juice, stir in almonds and serve.
  
  (adapted from Yamuna's Table, serves 6)
  
  From: mad4@ellis.uchicago.edu (Bill Maddex)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Cinnamon Muffins
 Categories: Muffin
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg
      2 c  Bisquick baking mix
    3/4 c  Apple; peeled & finely chop
    1/3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Milk
      2 T  Oil; vegetable
      2 ts Cinnamon; ground
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :15
     Preheat oven to 400F. Grease bottom only of 12 medium muffin cups.
  Beat egg slightly, stir in remaining ingredients just till moistened.
  Divide batter evenly among cups. Bake till golden brown, 15 to 17
  minutes.
  
  MAKES: 12 muffins posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Nut Coffee Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shortening
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts -Salt
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Apple; finely chopped
           Topping:
    1/2 c  Nuts; chopped
    1/2 c  Brown sugar; packed
      1 ts Cinnamon; ground
      2 T  Butter; melted
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :40
    Preheat oven to 350F. In mixing bowl, cream together shortening and
  sugar. Add eggs and vanilla, beat well. Combine flour, baking powder,
  baking soda and salt. Add to creamed mixture, alternating with sour
  cream. Fold in apple. Spread batter in greased 13 X 9 X 2" baking pan
  or large greased bundt pan. Combine nuts, brown sugar, cinnamon and
  butter. Sprinkle nut mixture evenly over batter. Bake 350F for 35-40
  minutes.
  
  Source: AWARE Cookbook II (Nancy Fisher) posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Zucchini Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Egg
      1 c  Carrot; grated
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Zucchini; grated
    2/3 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Coconut; shredded
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 ts -Salt

MMMMM---------------------CREAM CHEESE ICING--------------------------
      1 pk Cream cheese; 4 oz
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 ts Orange rind; grated
      2 c  Icing sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  CAKE: Preheat oven to 350F. Grease & flour 9" pan. Beat eggs with
  sugar till frothy.  Gradually beat in oil. Combine dry ingredients,
  add to 1 st mixture in large bowl & beat together till mixed (batter
  will be thick). Add carrots, zucchini & coconut. Beat. Pour into pan.
  Bake at 350F for 30 min. Frost when cool.
  
  ICING:  Beat  cream  cheese (room temp) & butter together  till
  creamy. Beat in icing sugar, vanilla & orange rind till creamy.
  Spread. posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Bars
 Categories: Misc/food
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Brown sugar; packed
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Bisquick baking mix
    1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped
      1 pk Cream cheese; 8 oz softened
    1/4 c  Sugar; granulated
      1 T  Lemon juice
      2 ts Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :45
    Preheat oven to 350F. Grease 8" square pan. Mix brown sugar and
  butter till well blended. Stir in Bisquick and walnuts till mixture
  is crumbly; reserve 1 cup. Press remaining mixture in pan with
  fingers. Bake 12 minutes.   Mix cream cheese and granulated sugar;
  beat in remaining ingredients till smooth. Spread cream cheese
  mixture over layer in pan; sprinkle with crumbly mixture. Bake till
  centre is firm, about 25 minutes.
  
  NB. Results aren't always consistent (sometimes it's too crumbly or
  the bottom layer sticks in the pan). However, it's Dad's favorite
  recipe. Source: Bisquick book posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fdr's Favorite Pecan Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Pastry for 9" pie
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Sugar; brown
      1 c  Corn syrup
      3    Eggs; well beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Pecans; halved or pieces
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :50
    Precook 9" pastry shell for 5 minutes at 425F. (I use Speedy
  Pat-in-Pastry). Turn down oven to 350F.   Cream butter and sugar, add
  syrup, eggs and vanilla. Mix well, then add pecans. Pour into prepared
  crust and bake in 350F oven till filling is firm, about 40 to 50
  minutes. Cool before cutting.
  
  (I don't know whether FDR really liked this but it's in the title!
  Source: Toronto Star posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Loaf
 Categories: Bread, Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Red &green candied cherries
    1/4 c  Nuts
    1/4 c  Mixed peel
  1 3/4 c  Flour; sifted
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Sugar; white
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Almond extract
      6 tb Shortening; melted
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :40
     Preheat oven to 450F. Cut cherries into quarters, add to nuts and
  mixed peel. Measure flour, baking powder, sugar and salt into sifter.
  Sift. Beat eggs till light and fluffy. Add in milk, vanilla, almond
  extract and shortening. Add fruit to flour and mix well. Make hole in
  dry ingredients and egg mixture.   Bake in greased loaf pan, lined
  with wax paper 35 minutes at 350F.
  
  One of mom's recipes, originally came from a neighbour from
  Newfoundland.
  
  packs well for lunches and is not too sweet. posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb Dream
 Categories: Dessert
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 c  Flour
      5 T  Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 ts -Salt
      2 c  Rhubarb; fresh, diced
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :30 Preheat
  oven to 350F. Blend crust ingredients. Press into ungreased 9" x 9"
  pan. Mix topping ingredients and spoon over crust. Bake at 350F for
  about 30 minutes or till crust is golden brown.
  
  Source: Edna Staebler, _More Food that Schmecks_ posted by Anne
  MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Krispie Squares
 Categories: Candy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
      4 c  Marshmallows or 10 oz
      5 c  Rice krispie cereal
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :05
    Melt butter in saucepan over low heat. Add marshmallows and stir
  till melted. Cook 3 minutes, stirring constantly . Remove from heat,
  add Rice Krispies and stir till all are coated. Using buttered
  spatula, press evenly into buttered 13x9x2" pan. Cool. Cut into 2"
  squares.
  
  VARIATIONS: add 1 cup raisins     add 1 cup peanuts add 1/4 cup peanut
  butter to marshmallows melt 2 squares chocolate with marshmallows for
  Christmas: add green food colouring (if desired), shape into "trees"
  or press into buttered ring or small Bundt mold. Decorate with red
  cinnamon candies (for tree) or spearmint leaves and jelly berries for
  ring mold (resembles a wreath) posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Speedy Pat-In Pastry
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
    3/4 ts -Salt
    1/2 c  Oil; corn
      3 T  Milk; cold
 
  "I could never never make a good pie crust. My crusts were always
  tough or crumbly, no matter what recipe I'd try. Whenever we had a
  family get-together and I'd offer to make a pie, my sister or my
  niece would say, "No, Ednie, don't bother. You bring the vegetables,
  I'll make a pie." But since my sister Norm gave me her recipe for a
  pat-in pie crust, I've had incredible success! Every time! The family
  no longer reject my offerings. My crust are crisp and tasty and
  golden. The edges may not be perfectly fluted like Norm's are but
  that's not important. Pat-in crust is so easy to make. I put all the
  ingredients into my food processor, give them a brief whirl, and pour
  the mixture into a pie plate. I pat it firmly ~ around the edges
  first, then through the middle - and that's it. No rolling or wasting
  bits of pastry, and so fast that it can be done in five minutes.
   Norm doesn't mix her crust in her food processor. She let her
  husband, Ralph, blend the ingredients with a fork in the pie plate.
  Then he can proudly say he made it..."
  
    Sift flour, sugar and salt directly in 9-10" pie plate. Combine oil
  and milk in measuring cup and beat with fork till creamy. Pour all at
  once over flour in pie plate; give your food processor a brief whirl
  or -in a pie plate mix with a fork till flour is completely dampened.
  Push the dough with your fingers to line bottom and sides of pan,
  then fill with whatever filling you've chosen.
  
  If you are making a baked pie shell to be filled later, prick the
  pastry with a fork to keep it from bubbling. Bake at 425F for 15
  minutes or until golden. Fill If you're fussy, press it down with a
  pie plate. Flute the edges.
  
  Source: Edna Staebler's Schmecks cookbooks NB: To extend a pie to
  serve more than 6 or 8, then pat the pastry into a 9" X 13" cake pan,
  spread the filling over it and when baked, cut into 12 squares.
  posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brussel Sprouts and Chestnuts
 Categories: Vegetable, Holiday
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Brussel sprouts
    1/2 lb Chestnuts
    1/2 ts Rosemary
    1/2 ts Tarragon
    1/2 ts Cumin
      1 c  Chicken broth
      1 T  Cornstarch
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 40
     Blanche brussel sprouts in boiling water 5 - 10 minutes. Run cold
  water over them. Take chestnuts, with a sharp knife, make an "X" on
  the top of each one. Brush each chestnut with oil. Bake for 20
  minutes at 400F. Then shell.   Mix sprouts, chestnuts and seasoning.
  Season with salt and pepper. Pour over broth. Bake at 350F for 20
  minutes (can extend). Remove from oven. Pour liquid into pan and mix
  with cornstarch and water. Cook over medium heat till thickened. Pour
  over vegetables.
  
  Source: Neil's Mom (Toronto Sun orig) posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chunky Pizza Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Oil; vegetable
      1    Onion; chopped small
    1/2 c  Mushrooms; sliced
    1/4 c  Green peppers; slivered
      1 c  Tomatoes; undrained
      1 c  Stock; beef
      1 c  Pepperoni; thin sliced
    1/2 ts Basil; dried
      1 c  Cheese; mozzarella shredded
 
  Preheat oven broiler. Heat oil over medium heat, stirfry onion,
  mushroom and green pepper till soft, not browned. Add tomatoes,
  stock, pepperoni and basil, cook till heated through. Ladle soup into
  ovenproof bowls and sprinkle with cheese. Broil till cheese melts and
  is bubbly.
  
  Source: Canadian Living magazine posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Company Microwave Rice
 Categories: Rice, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Rice; unconverted, uncooked
      2 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Celery; finely chopped
    1/3 c  Green onion; finely chopped
      3 tb Soy sauce
      1 c  Bouillon; chicken
    1/2 c  Mushrooms; fresh sliced
    1/2 c  Peas; frozen
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :16
    Combine rice and butter and cook, uncovered on HIGH (100%) for 4 to
  6 minutes or till rice has browned. Stir 2 times while cooking. Add
  celery and green onions and cook an additional minute. Add remaining
  ingredients except mushrooms and peas. Stir well and return to
  microwave. Stir and let stand covered for 10 minutes.   If mushrooms
  and peas are done, serve. If not, microwave 3-5 minutes to complete.
  Fluff and serve.
  
  from my microwave cooking class posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Dill Meatballs
 Categories: Microwave, Meat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Hamburger
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Onion; chopped
    1/4 c  Breadcrumbs; dry
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
           Pepper

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Dill; dried
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts -Salt
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :15
      Combine all meatball ingredients in medium bowl. Shape mixture
  into 20 meatballs and place in 2 qt casserole. Cook at HIGH (100%) 8
  to 10 minutes. Stir gently 3-4 times, rearranging meatballs. Drain,
  cover and set aside. In 4 cups measure or small bowl, cook butter at
  HIGH (100%) 45-1 minute or till melted. Stir in flour, dill, 1/4 tsp
  of paprika, salt and pepper. Blend in milk. Cook at HIGH (100%) 3-5
  minutes or till thickened and bubbly, stirring after every minute.
  Pour sauce over meatballs and sprinkle with remaining paprika. Serve
  over hot buttered noodles. posted by Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Feta Stuffed Pasta Shells
 Categories: Appetizer, Pasta, Microwave
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     48    Pasta shells; large
    3/4 c  Feta cheese; crumbled
    3/4 c  Red pepper; finely diced
     12    Olives; black pitted and fi
    1/4 c  Walnuts; finely chopped
      2 tb Parsley; fresh chopped
    1/2 ts Oregano; dried
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: :05
    In pot of boiling water, cook pasta shells as directed on package
  (till al dente). Rinse until cold water. Drain well, arrange shells
  on large microwave safe serving dish. Set aside.   In bowl, combine
  feta, red pepper, olives, walnuts, parsley and oregano. Fill each
  pasta shells with about 1 tsp of feta cheese mixture. Use toothpick
  to skewer each shell. Microwave stuffed shells at Medium (50%) for 4
  to 5 minutes or till heated through. MAKES: 48 appetizers posted by
  Anne MacLellan
 
MMMMM
 
