MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHOCOLATE TRUFFLES (French-style)
 Categories: Candies, Usenet
      Yield: 5 pounds
 
      3 lb Chocolate (semi-sweet
           -or semi-bittersweet)
      1 qt Cream, very heavy
    1/2 lb Butter, sweet (i.e.
           -unsalted butter)
           Cocoa powder
 
  Melt the chocolate in the top of a double boiler.  Do not cook the
  chocolate. This should be done SLOWLY over minimum heat.
  
  Boil the cream.  Once the chocolate is completely melted and the
  cream just boiled, combine in the top of the double boiler.  Take off
  the top pan from the water, and (off heat) mix until completely
  combined.  Keep stirring until it is relatively cool. Allow to sit
  until it is cool enough to put into a refrigerator.
  
  Refrigerate overnight (NO SHORT CUTS HERE!!!).
  
  The next morning, melt this wonderful mixture again in a double
  boiler. When it is completely melted again, mix in the butter until
  it is completely absorbed. Whip, either with a hand whisk or a very
  slow electric gizmo, until the butter is completely absorbed and the
  mixture is cool again.  This can take an hour or longer, depending
  upon the chocolate, etc. Let cool and refrigerate overnight once more
  (this is not as critical as the first cooling; a few hours will be
  enough).
  
  Heat once again and whip until cool.   Refrigerate until it is thick
  enough to pipe through a pastry bag. Using a 1/2 nozzle, make little
  balls on a big piece of parchment paper that has cocoa powder spread
  on it. Roll in the powder. Keep chilled until just before serving.
  Let them return to just above room temperature before eating.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  French-style chocolate confectionery -- For those of you who are
  crazy enough about chocolate to go to the extremes that I do, here is
  the recipe for the chocolate truffles that I make. The formula is
  taken from Paul Bocuse's "French Cooking," but the directions are my
  own.
  
  *  If you like Grand Marnier or Kahlua or rum or whatever in your
  chocolate, the last melting step is the time to add. I think it's a
  small but forgivable sin myself.
  
  *  I recommend Guittard chocolate.  You can buy their semisweet chips
  in 12 ounce bags.  You can also buy it in 10 pound bars.  You can
  also buy 10-pound bars of Guittards "French Vanilla Semi bittersweet"
  which is so good you might eat all of it before you cook with it.
  Guittard makes 5 types of bittersweet if you like you chocolate
  really bitter. I use Hershey's Cocoa.  Still the best for my taste.
  
  *  Use genuine, real-live, honest "heavy cream" and not
  ultra-pasteurized whipping cream.  Try a wholesale dairy.  I only use
  Challenge Sweet Butter. Under no circumstances should you use
  anything but unsalted butter in this recipe.
  
  : Difficulty:  quite difficult (melting the chocolate 3 times requires
  tremendous care).
  : Time:  3 or 4 hours of preparation during a 3-day period.
  : : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
  :
  : Maurice Bizzarri
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: OATMEAL HONEY BREAD
 Categories: Breads, Usenet
      Yield: 2 loaves
 
      2 c  Oatmeal, uncooked
           -(e.g., Quaker's Old
           -Fashioned Oatmeal)
    2/3 c  Honey
      2 tb Salt
      3 tb Butter (or margarine)
      1 c  Water, boiling
      2 pk Yeast (dry), active
      1 c  Water, lukewarm
    2/3 c  Milk
      5 c  Flour, unbleached
           -(up to 6 C; may
           -substitute up to 2 C
           -whole wheat)
           Oil
 
  Put the oatmeal, honey, salt and butter in a large mixing bowl.  Add
  boiling water and mix together. Let stand for 45 minutes, stirring
  occasionally.
  
  Following the yeast package directions, add the yeast to lukewarm
  water, and let it soften for about 5 minutes. Add the yeast mixture
  to the oats and honey mixture. Mix in the milk and stir well.
  
  Stir in the flour, 1/2 cup at a time.  When the dough is too stiff to
  stir, pour it out onto a well-floured surface and knead it firmly,
  adding a little flour if necessary. Knead it until the dough is
  smooth and elastic (about 6-8 minutes). Form the dough into a ball.
  Place the dough into a large greased bowl, coating the entire ball of
  dough.
  
  Cover with a damp cloth and place in a warm, cozy, humid place.  (I
  put it in a cool oven, with a small saucepan of hot tap water sitting
  on the bottom of the oven.) Let rise for about 1 1/2 hours, or until
  the dough has doubled in bulk.
  
  Punch down the dough and split in half.  Spread the dough into two
  greased loaf pans, coating the dough as before, and cover with a damp
  cloth,  and let rise for about an hour in a warm, cozy, humid place.
  
  Bake at 350 F for 35-40 minutes, or until loaves sound hollow when
  tapped. Cool on a bread rack for about ten minutes.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A yeast bread for people who like oatmeal.  Yield:  makes 2 loaves.
  
  *  Kneading is difficult to describe in words, but many cookbooks have
  pictures.  The idea is to exercise the dough and work some more flour
  into it. Bread freezes very well; give it an hour or so to thaw, then
  heat it up at 350 degrees F. for about ten minutes.
  
  *  Instant and quick-cooking oatmeal is not satisfactory in this
  recipe. Besides the ubiquitous Quaker oats, you can use any
  commercial rolled oats or steel-cut oats. If you use the steel-cut
  oats, then soak for 1 hour in step 1.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy if you already know how to knead dough, moderate
  otherwise.
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, 4 1/2 hours waiting time.
  : Precision:  All amounts (including times) are approximate.
  
  : Harry S.  Delugach
  : University of Virginia, Dept.  of Computer Science,
  Charlottesville, VA : cbosgd!uvacs!hsd  or decvax!mcnc!ncsu!uvacs!hsd
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN WITH CHIPPED BEEF AND BACON
 Categories: Main dish, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Chicken breast halves
           -(4 whole breasts)
      4 oz Chipped beef
           -(1 package)
      8 sl Bacon
     13 oz Mushroom soup
           -concentrate (e.g.
           -1 can Campbell's soup)
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Cut chipped beef into strips.  Line the baking pan with them.
  
  Wrap bacon around chicken.  Put in pan on top of beef.
  
  Mix soup and sour cream.  Pour mixture over chicken.  Cover tightly
  and refrigerate overnight, or at least several hours.  It comes out
  better if you do it overnight.
  
  Bake in 275 degree F. oven, uncovered, for three hours.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Succulent and easy chicken -- This recipe makes the most succulent
  and juicy chicken I've had.  It is very easy to make.  The only
  drawback is that you have to start the night before you want to serve
  it. It would be a good recipe for when you have company, since you
  can do most of the work the previous day.
  
  *  A note on ingredients for non-US cooks:  "chipped beef" is cooked
  spiced beef cut into very thin slices and packaged for sandwiches.  A
  worthy substitute is  roast beef sliced very thin and seasoned
  lightly with salt and pepper. A "can of mushroom soup," such as
  Campbell's soup, is 1 1/2 cups of double-strength cream soup
  concentrate. You can substitute the Knorr Swiss dried mushroom soup
  mix (available worldwide) if you make it with a mixture of milk and
  water. Use 1/2 of a 70-gram package of soup mix with 1 cup of water
  and 1/2 cup of milk. Cook the soup according to package directions,
  then let cool.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, 1 day waiting, 3 hours cooking.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Jeff Lichtman at rtech (Relational Technology Inc., Alameda CA)
  : Saints should always be judged guilty until they are proved
  innocent... :
  : {amdahl, sun}!rtech!jeff
  : {ucbvax, decvax}!mtxinu!rtech!jeff
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MEATBALLS IN TOMATO SAUCE
 Categories: Meats, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------SAUCE INGREDIENTS--------------------------
     13 oz Tomatoes, canned
           -(1 large can), coarsely
           -chopped, with juice
      4 oz Tomato sauce (1 small can)
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 c  Parsley, chopped
      1 ts Chili powder

MMMMM--------------------MEATBALL INGREDIENTS-------------------------
      1 lb Pork sausage
    1/2 c  Parsley, chopped
    1/2 c  Cracker crumbs
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese (grated)
      1    Egg
      1 lb Pasta (tagliarini,
           -spaghetti or whatever)
 
  Combine the sauce ingredients and bring to a boil while preparing the
  meatballs.  Mix all meatball ingredients.  It is easiest to do this
  with your hands. Form into walnut-sized balls.
  
  Drop the meatballs into BOILING sauce.  If the sauce is not boiling,
  the meatballs will fall to pieces.  Simmer gently for about an hour.
  If you are making the sauce to eat right away, you will probably want
  to skim the grease that cooks out of the sausage periodically. If you
  are making this ahead, the grease will congeal when it sits overnight
  in the refrigerator, and you can remove it easily then.
  
  Check for salt.  Depending on the brands of sausage and tomatoes you
  use, you may not need any. If you need to add salt, be sparing.
  
  Boil the pasta.  Pour the sauce and meatballs over it and serve with
  grated parmesan, or combine and reheat in a casserole, sprinkled with
  parmesan.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Simple meatballs in herb and garlic tomato sauce -- I've been
  making this recipe since I was about 10 years old, and I don't
  remember where we got it. It's easy and very good, though. Yield:
  serves 4-6.
  
  *  This is fine made a day ahead.  Chilling it gives you a chance to
  remove the grease that cooks out of the sausage.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Vicki O'Day
  : Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto CA
  : hplabs!oday
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ED'S PEANUT BUTTER FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Usenet
      Yield: 3 pounds
 
      1 lb Peanut butter, smooth
           -(natural)
      1 lb Sugar, powdered
    1/2 lb Butter (2 sticks,
           -save the wrappers)
      1 ts Vanilla extract
     12 oz Chocolate, semi-sweet
           -(otherwise known as
           -1 bag chocolate chips)
 
  Melt the chocolate in a bowl over hot water or the top of a double
  boiler. Make sure you don't get even a drop of water in the
  chocolate.  Stir frequently with a spatula while doing the following
  steps and remove it from the hot water just as soon as it's melted.
  
  Melt the butter.  Mix together the powdered sugar, the melted butter
  and the vanilla. Don't bother sifting the powdered sugar. Just stir
  everything together with a wooden spoon until it's smooth and creamy.
  Stir in the peanut butter. This will break most flimsy wooden spoons
  if you're not careful. Mushing everything together with your hands
  works well and is lots of fun.
  
  Press the fudge into a buttered 8 or 9 square pan.  You don't need
  much butter, just wipe the butter papers over the inside of the pan.
  You can also line the pan with foil and butter that; this works
  especially well if you're making several batches in a row to give to
  people as holiday presents. Press the fudge in firmly; you don't want
  any air bubbles in it. You will get your hands messy here.
  
  Pour the chocolate over the fudge and spread it in an even layer.  The
  easiest way to do this is to shake the pan gently until the chocolate
  is even.  Let the chocolate cool to room temperature. DO NOT PUT IT
  IN THE REFRIGERATOR.
  
  Using a sharp knife cut the fudge into 1 squares.  If you defied my
  instructions and put it in the refrigerator, the chocolate layer will
  shatter when you try to cut it. Unless you are going to serve it
  immediately, store it in the refrigerator. Let it come to room
  temperature before serving.
  
  Again, don't scrimp on the peanut butter!  Skippy simply will not do.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  An extremely rich candy -- I got this recipe from a friend, Ed
  Firestone, who is arguably the best cook in Palo Alto. The results
  resemble Reese's Peanut Butter Cups that have attained Nirvana. Don't
  scrimp on the peanut butter; get the best you can find or make it
  yourself. If there's anything besides peanuts and salt in it, find
  another brand.
  
  *  Unless you use the foil method, you will inevitably destroy at
  least one piece getting it out of the pan.  The best method is to
  line the pan with foil, let the fudge cool, lift it out, peel off the
  foil, put it back in the pan and cut it. This keeps it from sticking
  to the pan. If you try to cut it out of the pan, it tends to fall
  apart.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  20 minutes preparation, 15 minutes cooling.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  :    -paul asente
  :        decwrl!glacier!cascade!asente  asente@SU-Cascade.ARPA
  :
  : You got peanut butter on my chocolate!
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: AFRICAN VEGETABLE STEW
 Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Onion (very large),
           -chopped
      1    Swiss chard bunch
      1 cn Garbanzo beans
           -(known also as chick
           -peas, ceci, etc.)
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Rice, raw
      2    Yams
           Several fresh tomatoes
           -(or large can)
      1    Garlic clove
           -(or more to taste)
           Salt and pepper,
           -to taste
           Tabasco sauce,
           -to taste
 
  Fry onion, garlic and white stems of chard until barely limp.  Add
  chopped greens and fry a bit.
  
  Either peel the yams or scrub them well with a vegetable brush, then
  slice them into thick slices.  Add garbanzos, raisins, yams,
  tomatoes, salt and pepper.  Cook a couple of minutes.
  
  Make a well in the center of the mixture in the pot.  Put the rice in
  the well and pat it down until it's wet. Cover and cook until rice is
  done, about 25 minutes. Add Tabasco sauce to taste.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A spicy vegetable stew -- I got this recipe from my mom, who got
  it from a friend. It's very easy to make.
  
  *  I find that the flavors of the vegetables don't stand out unless
  you put in a lot of tabasco. But then, I've got a cast-iron tongue.
  You should add enough to make the stew seem spicy to you.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Jeff Lichtman at rtech (Relational Technology, Inc.; Alameda,
  California) : Saints should always be judged guilty until they are
  proved innocent... :
  : {amdahl, sun}!rtech!jeff
  : {ucbvax, decvax}!mtxinu!rtech!jeff
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MURGH MUSALLAM (Chicken Curry)
 Categories: Poultry, Curries
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Chicken
      1    Ginger piece, fresh
           -(about 3/4 inch of
           -a ginger root)
     14    Garlic cloves
           -(or less)
      1 lg Onion
      1    Cinnamon stick
      2    Brown cardamom pods,
           -whole
      4    Green cardamom pods,
           -whole
      1    Star anise, whole
           -(use all 8 arms and
           -the seeds inside them)
     14    Black peppercorns
           -(or less)
      8    Cloves (or less)
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Red chili powder
           -(or substitute fresh
           -red chilies, diced)
      2    Green chilies
    1/2 c  Yogurt
    1/4 c  Oil (preferably ghee,
           -if available)
           Salt to taste
           Coriander leaves,
           -fresh (optional)
 
  Clean and joint chicken.  If you don't like the skin, remove it.
  
  Mash the ginger into a paste (or chop finely) and mince the garlic.
  
  Heat oil in a large frying pan.  Use "medium-high heat".
  
  Break apart the star anise to release the seeds inside the arms.  To
  the frypan, add onions, cinnamon stick, cardamom pods, star aniseed,
  peppercorns, cloves, garlic and ginger. Be careful not to burn the
  garlic. Saute until the onions are cooked but not browned.
  
  Add the chicken, turmeric and chili powder and cook on a medium heat,
  stirring often.
  
  When the oil starts to separate (the gravy will have oil floating on
  its surface), add the yogurt and cook till the chicken is done and
  the gravy is thick.  Finally, add the fresh coriander leaves.
  
  This is the basic recipe.  Try  varying the whole spice combinations
  until you find a favorite. The recipe doubles well.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Chicken curry -- This recipe is the real thing.  Throw out your
  curry powder:  you'll never use it again once you've  tried this
  recipe.  Chicken curry using the real spices cannot be beat!!  Yield:
  serves 2-3.
  
  *  A cardamom pod is not the same thing as a cardamom seed.  Make
  sure you get the pods. A pod is about the size of a pea and contains
  seeds inside it. Don't substitute the ground version of any of the
  whole spices, the effect will not be the same. And don't use white
  cardamom pods.
  
  *  You may want to remove the smaller whole spices prior to adding the
  yogurt so that unwitting guests don't eat them. Try the recommended
  quantity of garlic. The flavour is surprisingly subtle. More yogurt
  makes more gravy. Also a longer cooking time. Vary the amount of
  chilies to suit your taste. This recipe is medium-hot. I hope this
  satisfies your mouth-hunger.  The spice quantities may be varied to
  suit your preferences.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy, though timing matters when cooking the onions.
  : Time:  20 minutes preparation, 1 1/2 hours cooking.
  : Precision:  measure the oil.
  
  : Joseph Sotham <joseph@ubc-medgen.cdn>
  : University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC
  : It is better to travel happily than to arrive
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LAMB MARINADE
 Categories: Condiments, Meats, Usenet
      Yield: 1 /2 cup
 
    1/4 c  Salad or olive oil
      2 tb Wine vinegar
      2 ts Mustard, prepared
      1 ts Rosemary leaves,
           -crushed
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Onion salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Ginger, ground
    1/4 ts Garlic, minced
           -(instant)
 
  Mix together.  Refrigerate.  Marinate lamb overnight.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A marinade for any cut of lamb.
  
  : Difficulty:  trivial.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Katherine Rives Albitz
  : Hewlett-Packard, Ft.  Collins, Colorado, USA
  : hplabs!hpfcla!hpcnof!k_albitz
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FISH IN HOT FANNY SAUCE
 Categories: Fish, Usenet
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 tb Butter, unsalted
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 tb Tabasco sauce
      1 ts Black pepper, ground
      1 ts White pepper, ground
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Oregano
    1/4 c  Onion, minced
      3    Garlic cloves,
           -in thin slices
      1 tb Pecans, chopped fine
    1/4 c  Pecans, sliced
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2    Fish steaks or
           -tournedos, cut about
           -1 inch thick)
 
  Melt butter in a cast-iron skillet, add onions, garlic, peppers,
  paprika and diced pecans. Cook over medium heat until onions are
  clear. Add Tabasco sauce.
  
  Turn heat to high, add sliced pecans and fish pieces cut about 1 inch
  thick. Cook on high 4-5 minutes per side. Smear uncooked side with
  sauce before turning. Add lemon juice and oregano after turning.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Fish in a hot garlic/pecan sauce -- The Cajun Cafe in Portland
  Oregon serves a sauce whose recipe they got under license from
  K-Paul's in New Orleans.  They devoutly refused to answer all of my
  questions about the sauce or its ingredients, so I've tried to
  formulate it on my own, at home. This stuff doesn't taste exactly
  like what the restaurant serves, but it's delicious in its own right.
  Maybe it's best to title the recipe "fish with something not entirely
  unlike hot fanny sauce."
  
  This sauce is best served with a moderately strong fish:  I would
  recommend sturgeon, swordfish, or tuna.
  
  *  If you are cooking more pieces of fish than will fit in the
  skillet at once, make the sauce ahead, put it aside (keep warm) and
  add it before cooking each piece of fish.
  
  *  Serve with a simple rice or pasta dish.  I use saffron rice with
  snow peas, or linguine with shrimp meat and pesto.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  45 minutes.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Steven McGeady
  : Intel Corp., Hillsboro, Oregon, USA
  : mcg@omepd.intel.com
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ARMENIAN RICE
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Usenet
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Rice, uncooked
      2 oz Egg noodles, small
      2 c  Chicken stock
           Basil (optional)
 
  Melt butter in large saucepan, add egg noodles and cook until
  browned.  Add rice, stir to coat with butter.  Cook on medium-high
  heat for 1 minute. Add chicken stock and optional basil, and stir to
  mix.
  
  Reduce heat, cover and cook for 25-30 minutes until rice is done.
  Remove from heat and let stand, covered, for 5 minutes before serving.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Rice with noodles in chicken broth.  Yield:  Serves 2-3.
  
  : Difficulty:  very easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking.
  : Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Andrew L.  Duane
  : Compugraphic Corp., Wilmington, Mass., USA
  : {ima,ism780c,ulowell}!cg-atla!duane
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOT OLIVE CHEESE PUFFS
 Categories: Appetizers, Usenet
      Yield: 25 puffs
 
      1 c  Cheddar cheese (sharp),
           -grated
      3 tb Butter, softened
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
     25    Olives (approx)
 
  Blend cheese with butter.  Add flour, salt, paprika.  Mix well.
  
  Dry olives.  Wrap a spoonful of dough around each and seal well.
  Bake at 400 degrees F. for 15 minutes.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Delicious hot appetizers.  Yield:  Makes about 25 puffs.
  
  *  You can freeze the unbaked cheese puffs on a cookie sheet and then
  store them in the freezer in a plastic bag.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, 15 minutes baking.
  : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
  
  : Katherine Rives Albitz
  : Hewlett-Packard, Ft.  Collins, Colorado, USA
  : hplabs!hpfcla!hpcnof!k_albitz
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ANDY'S MURGH KURMA (Chicken Curry)
 Categories: Poultry, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Green cardamon pods
           -(up to 8)
      2 lb Chicken
      1 c  Plain yogurt
      6    Cloves, whole
           -(up to 8)
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 md Onion
      6    Szechuan peppercorns
           -(up to 8)
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Bay leaves
      5    Garlic cloves
           -(or less, to taste)
    1/4 ts Ginger root
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/4 c  Tomato puree
      1 c  Water
 
  Thoroughly clean the chicken pieces, then marinate with yogurt and
  salt for 1 hour.
  
  Meanwhile, prepare the spices.  Chop the garlic and ginger, then add
  black pepper to this mixture.  Set aside in a small bowl.
  
  Near the end of the hour of marinating, melt the shortening in a
  coverable skillet (woks will do).  Chop the onion and brown in the
  skillet for about 10 minutes.
  
  After the onions are ready, add the garlic/ginger/pepper mixture.  Let
  simmer for approximately 5 minutes, then add the chicken. Let the
  chicken simmer for approximately 30 minutes or until cooked.
  
  Add the cardamoms, cloves, cinnamon, turmeric and bay leaves.  Leave
  them whole.  Simmer for 5 minutes.  Finally, add the tomato puree and
  water to the mixture and cook until the mixture has thickened. Serve
  with rice and chapati.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A simple chicken curry.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  1 hour marinating, 15 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Andy House
  : Software Engineering Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, USA
  : ahouse@dz.sei.cmu.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BEP'S BARMI GORENG
 Categories: Main dish, Indonesian, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Tomatoes, peeled
    1/2 lb Chinese noodles
      1 lb Mince beef
    1/4 lb Middle bacon
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 md Onion
      2 ts Ketjap benteng manis
           -(sweet soy sauce)
    1/4 ts Sambal oelek
           -(hot pepper condiment)
      4 oz Boemboe nasi
           -goreng (dehydrated
           -vegetables and spices)
    1/4 ts Sambal oedang kering
           -(pepper condiment)
 
  Soak the boemboe nasi goreng in hot water.
  
  Dice and brown the onion, whilst boiling the noodles in another
  container. Add mince and diced bacon to cooked onions and brown.
  
  To soaked the boemboe nasi goreng add tomatoes, sambal oedang kering,
  sambal oelek and ketjak benteng manis; mix well. More spices can be
  added to taste.
  
  Drain the noodles.  Add tomato paste and Chinese noodles to cooked
  mince. Mix together. Bring to even heat and serve.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A tasty Indonesian dish -- This is a recipe that my mother, Bep,
  has perfected.  I have no idea where the recipe originated from but
  it is a great dish that she has perfected over the years. The
  leftovers are great next day, hot or cold. Yield: serves 4.
  
  *  Editor's note:  this recipe is unique in the history of
  alt.gourmand in that virtually none of the ingredients is available
  in an ordinary North American grocery store.  However, with a certain
  amount of difficulty I was able to find all of the ingredients in
  specialty food stores nearby (though admittedly I live in a
  wonderland of ethnic grocery stores and specialty markets.) The
  recipe is so delicious that it's worth including even though most
  readers will not be able to find the ingredients to make it.
  
  North Americans can read ground beef for mince beef and bacon for
  middle bacon.  You can make an interesting substitute for this dish
  by using Mexican seasonings instead of Indonesian; the flavor will
  not be at all authentic but some of the spirit is preserved.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  30 minutes.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK
  
  : Michael Oudshoorn
  : Department of Computer Science,
  : The University of Adelaide,
  : South Australia.
  : ACSnet:  mjo@uacomsci.ua.oz
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HAMBURGER PETAL PIE
 Categories: Meats, Usenet
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 c  Onion, chopped
      1 c  Green pepper, chopped
    1/2    Garlic clove, crushed
      2 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 lb Hamburger
    1/3 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Flour
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
      1 lb Biscuits, canned
 
  Saute the onion, green pepper and garlic in the oil until tender then
  add the beef and cook until brown all over. Dump out the grease and
  add about 1/3 cup of water. Add the worchestershire sauce, salt,
  pepper and flour. Simmer until the juice thickens.
  
  Separate the biscuits and brush the edges with the egg.  Put the
  biscuits against the sides and bottom of a pie plate so it is
  completely covered.
  
  Stir the rest of the egg into the meat mixture and then spoon the
  meat into the pie shell.  If you wish you can garnish with a few
  tomato wedges. Bake in a pre-heated oven at 450 degrees F. for about
  8 to 10 minutes. The biscuits should be slightly browned.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A quick hamburger dish -- I got this recipe from Judy Halter who
  got it from her sister.  Yield:  serves 5.
  
  *  This gets its name because the biscuits around the edge puff up to
  look like the petals around the center of a sunflower.  This is a
  great bachelor meal because you can come in from work and make it
  without much effort, time or dish washing. You can play with
  different spices to change the flavor. Some of my friends like to put
  cheese on top before baking it.
  
  *  If you live outside North America, remember that a biscuit is a
  scone.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  10 minutes preparation, 10 minutes cooking
  : Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Pat Caudill
  : Tektronix, Inc., Portland, Oregon, USA
  : patc@tekcrl.TEK.COM
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ROCKET SALAD DRESSING
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Usenet
      Yield: 1 cup
 
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Mustard, dry
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Garlic powder
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
 
  Mix dry ingredients with the vinegar and shake well.  Add the oil and
  shake again.  Shake before using.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A mild oil and vinegar salad dressing -- This is a mild and
  slightly sweet dressing. I got it from my mother, who has made it for
  years.
  
  *  This gets its name from the red color the paprika gives the
  dressing. It works best with mild mustard, if you can find any.
  
  : Difficulty:  trivial.
  : Time:  45 seconds preparation.
  : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
  
  : Pat Caudill
  : Software Productivity Technologies, Tektronix, Inc., Portland,
  Oregon, USA
  : patc@tekcrl.TEK.COM
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VALLEY GRAPE PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Usenet
      Yield: 1 pie
 
  1 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      3 tb Sugar
    1/3 c  Butter, melted
      3 ts Cornstarch
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Water, cold
      2 lb Grapes, seedless (green),
           -with stems removed
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Combine cracker crumbs, about 3 T
  sugar and butter.  Reserve 1/4 cup of this crumb mixture and press
  the rest into a 9-inch pie pan.  Bake at 350 degrees F. for 8
  minutes.  Allow to cool.
  
  Dissolve cornstarch and about 2/3 cup sugar in cold water in
  saucepan.  Add grapes and bring to boil, stirring constantly.  Reduce
  heat and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in the lemon
  juice. Cool.
  
  Spoon this filling into the baked and cooled crust.  Mix sour cream
  with about 1 T sugar and vanilla and spread over pie. Sprinkle with
  reserved crumbs. Serve.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Fruit pie made from green seedless grapes -- This recipe came
  originally from the _Los Angeles Times Magazine_.  It's unusual:  I'd
  never before thought of using grapes in a pie before.  But it's good!
  
  : Difficulty:  easy to moderate (burns easily).
  : Time:  30 minutes.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Michelle Berteig
  : Caltech, Pasadena, California, USA
  : michelle@tybalt.caltech.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: DIRTY SNOWBALLS
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      2 c  Sugar, granulated
      4 oz Chocolate, unsweetened
      4    Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 ts Baking powder
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Sugar, powdered
 
  Melt chocolate in double boiler or microwave.  Combine melted
  chocolate, granulated sugar, vanilla and vegetable oil in a mixer.
  
  Add eggs, one at a time, blending well each time.  Sift (or stir)
  together flour and baking powder, add to wet mixture.  Mix well.
  
  Let stand in refrigerator for a few hours or overnight.  Roll dough
  into small balls (no more than about 1 inch in diameter), and roll in
  powdered sugar until coated. Bake for 12 minutes in a preheated 350
  degree F. oven.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Chocolate cookies with powdered sugar coating -- This recipe was
  handed down to me from my step-sister who got it from her mother.
  Yield:  Several dozen.
  
  *  The temperature is very important:  any lower and the cookies
  won't bake properly; any higher and the powdered sugar will glaze.
  
  *  If you coat your palms with powdered sugar before attempting to
  roll the balls your hands will get less sticky.  Put the dough back
  in the refrigerator whenever you are not actively using it; it is
  easier to work when cold.
  
  *  You don't actually have to bake these; they make a reasonable
  fudge when left uncooked, but if left in the refrigerator for several
  days before baking they will become dried out. When done, the unused
  powdered sugar will have small shards of chocolate in it; these can
  be strained out and the sugar will be re-usable.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, overnight chilling, 20 minutes
  baking and cooling.
  : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
  
  : Judy Anderson
  : Lucid, Inc., Menlo Park, California, USA
  : edsel!yduj@labrea.stanford.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SUMMER ASPARAGUS SOUP
 Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1    Onion, chopped
  1 1/2 lb Asparagus, fresh
      2 tb Flour
      6 c  Water, boiling
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Chicken broth, rich
           -(optional)
      2    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  Melt the butter in a pan big enough to cook the soup.  Saute the
  onions for a few minutes, until transparent but not brown.
  
  Meanwhile, slice the asparagus into thin slices.  Now add the sliced
  asparagus pieces to the onions and continue to saute (over medium to
  medium-high heat) for 15 minutes, until most of the moisture has
  steamed out of the asparagus and the mixture has just barely started
  to brown.
  
  Add the flour to the onion/asparagus mixture and stir well to coat
  each piece with some flour. Cook for 2 or 3 more minutes over
  medium-high heat. Dump the boiling water into the asparagus mixture.
  Add the (optional) chicken broth and the salt. Simmer for 1 hour.
  
  Strain out the cooked asparagus, leaving behind a thin yellow-green
  soup. Thicken the soup with the 2 egg yolks.  Add the milk and reheat
  the soup to serving temperature.  Add salt and fresh-ground white
  pepper to taste. Serve immediately.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A light and simple asparagus soup -- Every summer, it seems,  the
  grocery stores are glutted with cheap asparagus. Most of the classical
  recipes for asparagus soup produce a hearty winter-style soup. Here's
  a simple recipe for a delicious, light, thin soup that is more in
  keeping with the time of the year that the glut occurs. You can leave
  out the chicken broth to make it a meatless soup, but it does require
  egg yolks. Yield:  Serves 4-6.
  
  *  The slicing disk on a food processor does an excellent job of
  slicing the asparagus for this recipe. You can use a food mill, a
  china cap, or an ordinary sieve to strain the cooked asparagus out of
  the broth.
  
  *  Don't try to make this soup as a low-salt soup by leaving out the
  salt.
   It will taste like dishwater if you cook the asparagus for an hour
  without salt. Don't try to skimp on time by leaving the cooked
  asparagus in the broth unstrained. It will ruin the texture.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy to moderate (thickening soup with egg yolks is
  not a beginner's skill).
  : Time:  10 minutes preparation, 1 hour simmering, 5 minutes
  finishing. : Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Brian Reid
  : DEC Western Research Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
  : reid@decwrl.dec.com
    {decvax,sun,ucbvax,cbosgd,pyramid}!decwrl!reid
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ADVOKAAT
 Categories: Beverages, Alcohol, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Vanilla sugar
      2 c  Milk
      9    Egg yolks
  1 1/2 c  Grain alcohol
           -(95-percent)
 
  Mix sugars.  Boil milk with half of sugars for two minutes.  Let it
  cool down. (For the milk it is easiest to use a pot which can later
  be used with a mixer.)
  
  Mix well (mixer at high speed) the yolks with the other half of the
  sugars. Using mixer add to milk.  Then (still using mixer) add
  alcohol slowly. (The result is quite fluid, sweet and strong.)
  Bottle and let rest for two weeks to let the mixture thicken.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Egg-cognac:  a potent sweet alcoholic beverage -- Advokaat is the
  Dutch word for egg cognac.  It is highly recommended for A.  I.
  (Alcohol Imbibing) meetings. This recipe is my modification of a
  recipe I obtained in Poland. It makes a potent, superb advokaat (or
  egg-cognac). The milk and eggs are healthy, the sugar and alcohol are
  not. Yield: Serves 4-8.
  
  *  This advokaat can be drunk or, better yet, eaten with a spoon; it
  is quite thick.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, 2 weeks aging.
  : Precision:  Measure the ingredients.
  
  : Laurent Siklossy
  : Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
  : siklossy@cs.vu.nl
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MAPLE SYRUP SOUFFLE
 Categories: Usenet
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar, powdered
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Maple syrup
      4    Egg whites
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Beat the egg whites.  Add slowly the
  sugar and baking powder, turning slowly with a spatula. Slowly add
  the maple syrup, turning with a spatula.
  
  Grease a souffle dish with butter.  Bake at 375 degrees F. for 30
  minutes. Serve immediately.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A classic souffle, flavored with maple syrup -- This recipe was
  given to me by a colleague from the Universite Laval in Quebec, P.Q.,
  Canada. If you cannot get maple syrup, try pancake syrup or some
  fruit liqueur (such as Grand Marnier, Fraise des Bois, etc.).
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, 30 minutes baking.
  : Precision:  measure carefully.
  
  : Laurent Siklossy
  : Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
  : siklossy@cs.vu.nl
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHEESECAKE (Food Processor)
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Usenet
      Yield: 1 cake
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      6 oz Zwieback cookies
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 lb Butter

MMMMM------------------------CAKE FILLING-----------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Cream cheese
      1 c  Sugar
      4    Egg whites
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/3 c  Almonds, slivered
      1 tb Butter
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Use the steel blade of the food
  processor; drop the zwieback cookies into the processor, one at a
  time, and process until fine. Add the sugar and cinnamon. Melt butter
  and pour in. Process 2 seconds or until crumbs are moistened.
  Reserve      3/4 cup of crumbs. Press the rest into bottom and sides
  of a buttered 10-inch springform pan. Bake 10 minutes. Refrigerate 30
  minutes. Wash the food-processor bowl.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Cut the cheese into 1 oz pieces.
  Process with steel blade until smooth. In another bowl, beat the eggs
  until stiff. Blend sugar into the egg whites and pour into processor
  bowl. Process with cream cheese until smooth. Add vanilla. Process
  for 2 seconds. Pour mixture into crust and bake for 25 minutes.
  
  Preheat oven to 475 degrees F.  Mix together the sour cream, sugar and
  vanilla.  Pour and spread over the top of cake.  Sprinkle reserved
  crumbs to cover topping. Arrange slivered almonds over the crumbs.
  Bake for 7 minutes.
  
  Refrigerate overnight.  The next morning open the springform pan and
  knock off excess crust. Enjoy.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Food processor cheesecake -- This is reputedly the 1980 A&S
  Cheesecake contest award winner.  I have an  nth generation copy of
  the recipe, but it is the best cheesecake I have tasted.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.  Precision is required.
  : Time:  11/2 hours.
  : Precision:  measure carefully.
  
  : John Ioannidis
  : Columbia University, New York, USA
  : ji@columbia.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MEXICAN CHEF'S SALAD
 Categories: Salads, Usenet
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken (boneless),
           -diced
      1 lb Kidney beans
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 md Onion, chopped
      3 md Tomatoes, diced
      1 lb Lettuce, chopped
           -(about half of
           -a large head)
    1/4 lb Cheddar cheese,
           -grated
      1 c  Thousand island
           -dressing
    1/4 c  Picante sauce
           -(or more or less,
           -to taste)
      1 lg Avocado, sliced
    3/4 lb Corn tortilla chips
 
  Bone and dice the chicken.  Heat a small amount of vegetable oil in a
  large frying pan until it starts to smoke.  Add the chicken cubes and
  fry over medium-high heat, stirring frequently, until they are
  browned (2 or 3 minutes).  To the chicken, add the drained kidney
  beans, salt and chili powder.  Reduce heat and simmer 10 minutes.
  
  Chop the tomatoes, onion and lettuce.  Grate the cheese.  Toss them
  together in a salad bowl with the salad dressing and picante sauce.
  Slice the avocado and add to the salad. Break the tortilla chips into
  flakes and add to the salad.
  
  Mix the cooked chicken and beans into the cold salad.  Decorate with
  extra chips and slices of avocado and tomato.  Serve immediately.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A simple main-dish salad with Mexican seasonings -- I got this
  recipe from an old roommate, Ann-Marie Tarter. My husband revised it
  to use chicken instead of the hamburger that her version called for.
  It's a very simple, tasty hot-weather main dish. It doesn't keep as
  leftovers: you have to eat all of it immediately or else throw it
  away. I like to serve it accompanied by Aztec soup. Yield: Serves 6-8.
  
  *  The chips get soggy within 5 to 10 minutes after the meat has been
  added to the salad, so don't do that step until you are ready to eat.
  
  *  This recipe works best with iceberg lettuce.  The more exotic
  varieties of lettuce wilt instantly when the hot chicken and beans
  are mixed in; iceberg lettuce keeps its crunch.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Loretta Guarino Reid
  : DEC Western Software Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
  : guarino@decwrl.dec.com -or- decwrl!guarino
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ROASTED RED PEPPERS
 Categories: Vegetables, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Red peppers, fresh
           -(sweet red capsicum
           -peppers)
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
           Salt
 
  Preheat broiler as hot as you can get it.  Turn red peppers under the
  broiler until their skins come up in black bubbles. Cool the peppers
  until you can handle them comfortably.
  
  Remove the skins, stems, cores and seeds.  (This is messy work.  I
  have tried removing the innards first, before putting the peppers
  under the broiler, and the result is not so good as this way.)
  
  Cut the peppers into finger shapes.  Flavor them with fresh lemon
  juice and salt.  Let them sit for several hours, draining off the
  liquid that forms.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A low-calorie but flavorful red pepper salad -- Safeway got in
  their first carload of really cheap red peppers yesterday, and I made
  roasted pepper salad.
  
  Serve this at room temperature as a side dish for anything Nicoise or
  Spanish or Greek or Egyptian. Or make a meal of them by adding a bowl
  of yoghurt, a bowl of chopped onion, some black olives, radishes and
  pistachios, and lots of warm pita bread. Or use it with sauteed
  garlic and pitted black olives and a little reduced white wine as a
  spaghetti sauce. Yield:  Serves 4.
  
  *  Now.  Here is the real point about this recipe:  These roasted
  peppers are insanely delicious, smooth and unctuous and aromatic, and
  yet they contain absolutely no calories. A full-sized red pepper is
  only 15 calories.
  
  *  Of course I could lose weight if I never ate more than three
  tablespoons of anything. Any fool could do that. But I don't want to
  confine myself to three tablespoons.  Perhaps my taste buds work more
  slowly that other people's.  I don't seem to get the hang of what I'm
  eating till the second serving, or sometimes the third.
  
  *  At the same time, I want things that are really voluptuous and
  good to eat, full of interesting, complicated flavors that will
  satisfy me and make me feel happy and rewarded. Again, any fool could
  lose weight by eating celery stalks and carrots. Unfortunately, any
  number of carrot sticks over six makes me grumpish, and raw celery
  turns me positively surly in short order unless accompanied by
  delicious, fattening sour cream and cream cheese.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, several hours aging.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Mary-Claire van Leunen
  : DEC Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, California, USA
  : mcvl@src.dec.com  -or- decwrl!decsrc!mcvl
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MELON BALL SALAD
 Categories: Salads, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Melons, in three
           -different colors
    1/3 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Sherry vinegar
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      4    Garlic cloves, crushed
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Tarragon (fresh),
           -minced
      2 tb Chervil (fresh),
           -minced
      2 tb Lemon basil, minced
 
  Cut melons of three different colors into melon balls and drain the
  balls in a colander. Save the juice to make sherbet.
  
  Make a very strong salad dressing of chicken broth, sherry vinegar,
  lemon juice, crushed garlic, salt, pepper and minced fresh tarragon,
  chervil and lemon basil.
  
  Dress the drained melon balls and let the dressing sink in for half an
  hour. Serve with sliced ham and toast.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Margaret's X-rated melon balls -- I had a lettuce and tomato
  sandwich Saturday with mustard instead of mayonnaise.  Better than I
  would have feared. But the big discovery of the week is Margaret's
  X-rated melon balls. Yield: Serves 4.
  
  *  In truth, I have to report that Margaret herself thought the
  garlic was too much; but I didn't.
  
  *  This recipe is not wholly unrelated to fruit curry, another
  godsend for the overplump.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, 30 minutes waiting.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Mary-Claire van Leunen
  : DEC Systems Research Center, Palo Alto, California, USA
  : mcvl@src.dec.com  -or- decwrl!decsrc!mcvl
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRAVAD LAX
 Categories: Fish, West europe, Usenet
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 sm Salmon, whole
           -(about 2-3 lb)

MMMMM----------------------SWEDISH RECIPE I---------------------------
      2 tb White peppercorns
           -(or a mixture of
           -equal parts white
           -peppercorns and
           -allspice berries)
      4 tb Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      2    Dill bunches

MMMMM---------------------SWEDISH RECIPE II--------------------------
    1/4 c  Salt
      3 tb Sugar
      2 tb Pepper, white
      4 ts Allspice
      3 tb Gin
      2    Dill bunches

MMMMM----------------------ENGLISH RECIPE I---------------------------
      2 tb Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      3 tb Peppercorns, white
      2    Dill bunches

MMMMM---------------------ENGLISH RECIPE II--------------------------
    2/3 c  Salt
    1/2 c  Sugar
     20    Peppercorns, white

MMMMM-----------------------MAITRE'D SAUCE----------------------------
      3 tb Mustard, dark,
           -French, coarse-ground
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pn White pepper, ground
      1 tb Vinegar
      6 tb Olive oil
      6 tb Dill
 
  Get a whole fish, clean it and remove the head.  Split into two
  filets, removing the backbone but leave the skin on.  Dry off the
  filets and remove all the little bones.
  
  Crush the peppers and seasonings in a mortar, add the salt and sugar.
  Mix well and press the mixture into the filets.
  
  In a glass or ceramic dish, put some dill on the bottom, then one of
  the filets, skin side down, then more dill, then the other filet,
  skin side up. Put the thick side of one filet against the other's
  thin side.  Cover with plastic wrap (NOT ALUMINUM FOIL) and put a
  cutting board or similar on top with some weight on it (e.g. a couple
  of beer cans).
  
  Put it in the refrigerator for a day or so.  (Thin filets are ready
  in 1 day, thicker in 2 days.) Turn the filet over once or twice
  during this time. Pour off the brine, otherwise the fish will be too
  salty. The fish will keep for a week in a refrigerator after pouring
  off the brine.
  
  Make the sauce, Maitre'd sauce.  Mix together the mustard, sugar,
  salt, pepper and vinegar. Add the oil drop by drop as if making a
  mayonnaise. Add the dill. Let the sauce sit for about 10 minutes.
  
  Cut off either thin (nearly horizontal) slices, or thick vertical
  slices, to taste. (Don't cut through the skin). Serve as an appetizer
  on thin slices of buttered rye bread (with a little lemon juice and
  some finely chopped dill), or as a main dish with boiled new potatoes
  and Maitre'd sauce.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Swedish dill-cured salmon -- Gravlax uses a salt-sugar mixture to
  cure the fish. The fish is flavored by dill and whatever else is
  handy. (I've used gin, Julia Child has used cognac).
  
  I've gathered these versions of the recipe from several sources.
  From "Ver Cokbok" (the Swedish equivalent of "Joy of Cooking" or
  "Mrs. Beeton.") From a brochure published by the Swedish Information
  Service. From a booklet written by Tore Wretman, who owned a major
  restaurant and has published several cookbooks of his own. Gravlax is
  like barbecue, a process that you follow, but can vary considerably.
  
  Don't skimp on the salt.  The proportion of salt to fish is important
  to preserve the fish.  Here are several variations on a single basic
  recipe. Yield:  Serves 3-4.
  
  *  You can broil or grill thick slices of gravlax.  After you've
  eaten the salmon, you can also cut the skin in thin strips, sear them
  briefly on the skin side, and serve them as a garnish.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy once the fish is prepared.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, several days aging.
  : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
  
  : Martin Minow
  : Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Mass., USA
  : Minow@thundr.dec.com   minow%thundr.dec@decwrl.dec.com
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PLAIN OLD BREAD
 Categories: Breads, Usenet
      Yield: 2 loaves
 
    1/2 oz Yeast (dry),
           -quick-rising
           -(2 envelopes)
    1/4 c  Water, lukewarm
      7 tb Milk, dry
  2 1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
  1 3/4 c  Water
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      6 c  Flour, all-purpose
 
  In a small bowl, dissolve the yeast in about 1/4 cup lukewarm water.
  
  In a large mixing bowl, mix the powdered milk, sugar, salt and about
  1 3/4 cups water together.  Stir with a whisk until smooth, then add
  yeast mixture.
  
  Sift in about 3 cups of flour and mix until smooth.  Add the oil; mix.
  
  Gradually sift in the remaining flour.  When it becomes stiff enough
  to handle remove from the bowl and knead it as you add the flour.
  Knead it for 5-7 minutes after the last flour is added.
  
  Place the dough in a oiled bowl and turn it over to coat uniformly.
  Then place it in a warm place to rise until it has doubled in size
  (about 45 minutes).
  
  Remove from bowl and knead a little.  Divide into two equal parts,
  shape into loaves, and place in loaf pans. Let rise again until
  doubled in size.
  
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Bake 45 minutes.  Remove loaves from
  pans and cool on a wire rack.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Ordinary white bread -- This recipe is derived from the basic
  bread in the American Heart Association Cookbook.
  
  *  This is good everyday bread.  Be careful:  it's easy to eat too
  much and get fat.  You may want to have someone who has made bread
  before help the first time as the amount of flour may have to be
  adjusted depending on the slight differences in your measurement of
  the liquids and the humidity of the day. Once you have done it it is
  easy to do by the feel of the dough.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  20 minutes preparation, 2 hours rising, 1 hour cooking and
  cooling.
  : Precision:  measure carefully.
  
  : Pat Caudill
  : Tektronix, Inc., Portland, Oregon, USA
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
  : patc@tekcrl.TEK.COM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPAGHETTI WITH CLAM SAUCE
 Categories: Pasta, Seafood, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 oz Clams (canned), with
           -juice (2 standard cans)
      8 oz Tomato paste
           -(1 standard can)
      1 lb Tomatoes (canned),
           -with liquid
      4 tb Butter, clarified
      8    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 ts Parsley
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Salt
      1 lb Spaghetti
      1 tb Cooking oil
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
 
  Saute the garlic in about 2 T of clarified butter until lightly
  browned. Stir in the clam juice, tomato paste, tomatoes and liquid,
  parsley and oregano. Simmer until reduced by about half. Add the
  clams and remove from heat. This sauce should be reheated just prior
  to serving.
  
  Cook and drain the spaghetti.  In the empty cooking pot, melt the
  remaining clarified butter, and return the spaghetti to the pot and
  stir until coated uniformly.  Serve with lots of garlic bread and a
  dry white wine.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Garlic, clam and tomato spaghetti -- This recipe originally
  appeared in "Lowbush Moose (and other Alaskan recipes)" by Gordon R.
  Nelson.  I've modified it somewhat.  Yield:  Serves 4-6.
  
  *  You can use oil instead of clarified butter, at some sacrifice in
  flavor.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  30 minutes.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Lyndon Nerenberg
  : Nexus Computing Inc, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
  : {alberta,pyramid,uwvax}!ncc!lyndon  ||
  lyndon%ncc.uucp@spool.wisc.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PHEASANT AMERIND
 Categories: Game, Usenet, Native amer
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 lb Pheasant hen, cleaned
           -(up to 2 1/2 lb)
      1    Onion, quartered
      1    Bay leaf
      6    Peppercorns
      1 sm Carrot, sliced
      1    Celery stalk, sliced
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Butter
      1 pn Thyme, powdered
    1/4 ts Rosemary, dried
           -and crumbled
    1/4 c  Mushrooms, chopped
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Black walnut meats,
           -finely chopped
 
  COOK BIRDS:  Split pheasant down the breastbone (or have your butcher
  do this).  Rinse the halves, place in a deep pot and barely cover
  with water. Add bay leaf, onion, carrot, celery, salt and peppercorns.
  
  Bring to rolling boil, then turn down heat and simmer for
  approximately 30 minutes, or until tender.  Remove foam and scum as
  it forms.  Remove bird(s) from broth, reserving the broth.
  
  Using a heavy skillet, saute the halves in about 2 T of the butter
  until golden.  Place birds into small roasting pan or casserole with
  just enough water to cover the bottom of the pan.  Sprinkle with
  thyme and rosemary. Bake, lightly covered with foil, for 30-40
  minutes at 350 degrees F.
  
  MAKE GRAVY:  While the birds are in the oven, strain the broth and
  boil rapidly down to about 2 cups.
  
  Brown the mushrooms using the same skillet in which you browned the
  pheasant. Remove the mushrooms and keep them warm.
  
  Melt the remaining 2 T  of butter in the skillet.  Add the flour,
  stirring up the browning from the pan. Cook over moderately high heat
  until golden brown. Blend in the broth using a wire whisk.
  
  Add mushrooms and continue cooking approximately 1-2 minutes.  Turn
  down heat, cover and keep warm until pheasant is roasted.
  
  When the pheasants are cooked, remove them from the oven and scrape
  the herbs from the skin. After placing the pheasant halves on a warm
  platter (or leaving them in the casserole), pour the gravy over the
  pheasant. Garnish with the chopped nutmeats and serve. This dish is
  particularly good with wild rice.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Pheasant in the North American tradition -- This recipe is adapted
  from the exceptionally good, controlled-circulation Recipes Only
  Magazine. The original dish was created by Mary Richard for use in
  her Teepee Restaurant, in Winnipeg. I found some of the ingredients
  hard to locate in a hurry and used what I had available with good
  results. You can substitute rock Cornish hen, guinea fowl, or chicken
  for the pheasant and hazelnuts, filberts or walnuts for the black
  walnuts.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy once you have the all the ingredients ready.
  : Time:  40 minutes preparation, 80 minutes cooking.
  : Precision:  measure the spices.
  
  : G.  Roderick Singleton
  : Syntronics Manufacturing Inc., Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
  : gerry@syntron.uucp     utzoo!syntron!gerry
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LAMB SANS MINT
 Categories: Meats, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Leg of lamb,
           -butterflied and
           -trimmed
      6 tb Rosemary
           Black pepper
           Green onions
      4 c  Burgundy wine
      2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      6    Garlic cloves, sliced
      1 tb Oregano
      1 tb Thyme
      1 c  Onion, minced
 
  Carefully trimming the fat from a butterflied leg of lamb, and and
  finish the cut, as needed, so that the lamb lies flat in a butterfly
  shape. A large butterflied leg of lamb should be no more than about 2
  or 3 inches thick.
  
  Take a liberal amount of rosemary, crush it and rub it into the lamb.
  When crushing it, don't turn it into dust, just break it.  Sprinkle
  some black pepper on the cut side of the meat.
  
  Combine the remaining ingredients (wine, green onions, olive oil,
  lemon juice, garlic, oregano, thyme and onion) into a marinade. Place
  the lamb in a shallow dish or bowl, cover as much as possible with
  the marinade, and marinate in a refrigerator, covered, for 4 to 24
  hours.  Turn at intervals to marinate evenly.
  
  Grill over mesquite and charcoal on a grill with a tight-fitting lid,
  such as a Weber. Cook on one side for 25 minutes, occasionally
  spooning some leftover marinade onto the uncooked side, then turn and
  cook about 20 more minutes. cooking. Make a small cut in the thickest
  part of the lamb to check for doneness: when the center is still
  pink, but not raw, take the lamb off and prepare to serve. Remember
  that the lamb will continue to cook after you take it off the grill.
  
  Serve the lamb cut-side down (pretty side up).  Garnish with uncooked
  green onions.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Grilled butterflied leg of lamb -- I devised this recipe after
  being unable to find an appropriate recipe in the library. It is
  always well received, and it looks impressive far out of proportion
  to its difficulty. Because it is simple and difficult to screw up, it
  is perfect as the centerpiece for a meal with a large group or with
  complex side dishes. Serve with a hearty rice pilaf and a vegetable.
  Yield: Serves 4-6.
  
  *  Your butcher can butterfly a leg of lamb for you.  Tell him you
  will be cooking it flat, and not rolling it back up into a roast.
  Ask him to be careful.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy if you have a good butcher.
  : Time:  20 minutes preparation, overnight marinating, 45 minutes
  roasting. : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Steven McGeady
  : Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon, USA
  : mcg@omepd.intel.com
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MARINATED LAMB
 Categories: Meats, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Red wine
    1/2 c  Soy sauce (up
           -to 3/4 C)
      1 tb Rosemary leaves,
           -crushed
      1 tb Black pepper, fresh
      4    Garlic cloves, crushed
      1    Half leg of lamb,
           -butterflied
 
  Mix together all of the ingredients except the lamb.  Place the lamb
  in a bowl or pan that will not be corroded by the marinade (a glass
  9x13 pan works well).
  
  Pour most of the marinade over the lamb.  Swish the lamb around and
  get it soaked on both sides.  Cover and marinate in the refrigerator
  for at least several hours, turning occasionally.
  
  Start a fire in the grill and get the coals very warm but not flaming.
  Place lamb on grill about 3-4 inches from the coals. Cook on this
  side for 20 minutes, basting with the extra marinade occasionally.
  Turn the meat over and cook another 20 minutes.
  
  After 10 minutes on the second side, start checking for doneness.
  Contrary to many people's ideas, lamb should not be well done but
  should still be a little pink. When done, slice thin and serve.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Grilled butterflied leg of lamb -- This is the best recipe I have
  ever had for lamb. It really brings out the flavor wonderfully. It
  came originally from the "Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook."
  
  A wonderful side dish for this is the Spanish recipe for Garlic fried
  potatoes.  Yield:  Serves 4-6.
  
  *  For the meat, you need a half leg of lamb which has been
  butterflied.  A good butcher can do this for you but don't be afraid
  of trying it yourself. To butterfly the leg, take a sharp knife and
  start at the side and work towards the bone.  Once you have found the
  bone, work along it so you have one side completely slit and then cut
  out the bone. Depending on which end of the leg you have, you may
  need to puzzle over some of the weirdnesses of the bone shape. Don't
  discard the bone, it makes interesting soup.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, overnight marinating, 40 minutes
  cooking. : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Anita Cochran
  : Astronomy Dept., The Univ.  of Texas, Austin, TX, 78712
  : anita@astro.as.utexas.edu  {noao, ut-sally, ut-emx}!utastro!anita
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HONEY-ORANGE LAMB
 Categories: Meats, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    3/4 c  Pinot noir (Burgundy)
    1/4 c  Orange juice
           -(juice of 1 orange)
      2 tb Lemon juice (juice
           -of 1 lemon)
      2 tb Honey
      1 ts Mustard, dry
      1 c  Tomato puree
           -(puree of 1 tomato)
      3    Garlic cloves
           -(or more to taste)
    1/4 ts Black pepper, ground
      1    Half leg of lamb,
           -butterflied
 
  Mix together all of the ingredients except the lamb.  Place the lamb
  in a bowl or pan that will not be corroded by the marinade (a glass
  9x13 pan works well). Pour the marinade over the lamb. Cover and
  marinate in the refrigerator for 12 hours, turning occasionally.
  
  Start a fire in the grill and get the coals very warm but not flaming.
  Place lamb on grill about 3-4 inches from the coals. Cook 20 minutes
  on each side.
  
  After 10 minutes on the second side, start checking for doneness.
  Contrary to many people's ideas, lamb should not be well done but
  should still be a little pink. When done, slice thin and serve.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Grilled butterflied leg of lamb -- This recipe is the same as Anita
  Cochran's recipe for grilled butterflied leg of lamb, except that it
  uses a different marinade.  I got the marinade recipe from a local
  wine merchant. Yield:  Serves 4-6.
  
  *  This marinade also works well with chicken.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, overnight marinating, 40 minutes
  cooking. : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Stephen Kurtzman
  : University of Southern California, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
  : kurtzman@pollux.usc.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PONCIT
 Categories: Main dish, Filipino, Usenet
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      1    Onion, minced
      1 c  Meat, boiled (pork,
           -chicken, or shrimp)
      1 lg Carrot, cut into
           -thin strips
      1 sm Cabbage, shredded
      3 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb Broth
      1    Celery, bunch
      8 oz Rice sticks
           -or wheat noodles
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts MSG
      1    Spring onion, chopped
 
  Saute garlic in cooking oil.  Add onions, meat, carrot and cabbage.
  Season with soy sauce and fry for 2 more minutes.  Add broth and
  simmer, then add celery.
  
  When vegetables are cooked, add rice sticks or noodles and season
  with salt and MSG.  Garnish with spring onions.  Serve with lemon.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Filipino cabbage in garlic and soy sauce -- I got this from Lynne
  Fitzsimmons who got it from a Filipino friend of her mother's.
  
  *  You will need a big frying pan to fit all the ingredients.  You may
  leave out the salt and MSG if you like. I have successfully used
  lightly-microwaved bacon as the meat.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  20 minutes.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Pat Caudill
  : Tektronix, Inc., Portland, Oregon, USA
  : patc@tekcrl.tek.com    tektronix!tekcrl.tek.com!patc
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BRIAMI
 Categories: Casseroles, Greek, Usenet
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Eggplant
      2 lb Zucchini
      4 md Potatoes
      2    Green peppers
      1    Red pepper
      2 md Onions
      1 c  Olive oil
      4 md Tomatoes
      2    Garlic cloves
      1 ts Sugar
           Salt and pepper,
           -to taste
 
  Prepare the vegetables:  Cut the eggplant, zucchini and potatoes in
  bite sized chunks (do not peel the zucchini or the eggplant). Remove
  the stems and seeds from the peppers and slice them into strips. Peel
  and slice the onions. Dice the tomatoes.
  
  Saute the vegetables except the tomatoes in the olive oil in small
  batches. Saute each batch for 2 or 3 minutes, then remove from the
  pan, trying to drain some of the oil so that enough oil is left for
  the next batch. When you're done, most (if not all) of the oil should
  be gone from the pan. Place the sauteed vegetables in a baking dish
  and toss them briefly so that you won't get only one kind of
  vegetable in one place.
  
  Add the tomatoes into the pan and saute for a couple of minutes.
  Crush the garlic and add to the tomatoes.  Add the sugar, salt and
  pepper to taste and simmer for another minute. Pour the tomato sauce
  on top of the vegetables and bake at 350 degrees F. or until the
  vegetables are tender.
  
  Serve with plenty of fresh bread and, if you like, some feta cheese
  on the side.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Greek vegetable casserole -- This is a very colourful vegetable
  dish from Greece. I got the recipe out of a Greek cookbook.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  30-45 minutes preparation, 1 hour baking.
  : Precision:  No need to measure.
  
  : Kriton Kyrimis
  : Princeton University, Computer Science Dept., Princeton, New
  Jersey, USA : kyrimis@princeton.edu  allegra!princeton!kyrimis
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BACON POTATO PIE
 Categories: Casseroles, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Bacon, thick-sliced
           -and lean
      1    Onion
      1 lb Baking potatoes
    1/2 lb Cheddar cheese
      8    Eggs
 
  Cut the bacon slices into square pieces.  Fry the pieces until
  well-cooked, then drain on paper towels.
  
  Peel the potatoes, then grate them.  To prevent the grated potatoes
  from discoloring while you prepare the other ingredients, you can put
  them into a bowl of cold water. When you're ready to use them, be
  sure to drain well and squeeze them dry.
  
  Grate the cheese.  Mince the onion.  Butter a 9x13 inch shallow baking
  dish. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
  
  Beat the eggs in a large bowl.  Add all the other ingredients and
  stir. Pour the mixture into the baking dish and bake in the preheated
  oven for about 45 minutes, or until the eggs are cooked. Serve hot,
  warm or at room temperature.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A brunch casserole with potatoes, eggs, bacon and cheese -- This
  is a very easy brunch dish, similar to a fritatta in texture, but
  full of traditional breakfast ingredients. The recipe comes from a
  cookbook published by the _Contra Costa (California) Times_
  newspaper, called "Tastes of the Times." Yield: Serves 4-6.
  
  *  It really does make a difference if you use good meaty bacon for
  this. I find the best bacon at my local butcher shop.
  
  *  You can prepare part of this ahead.  I think egg dishes are better
  if they haven't been refrigerated. So if you want to work ahead, you
  can cook the bacon, grate the cheese and potatoes and mince the onion
  the night before. Store all these things separately in the
  refrigerator, covering the potatoes with water. Then in the morning
  just mix it all up and bake it.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate (tedious).
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, 1 hour baking and cooling.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Vicki O'Day
  : Hewlett Packard Laboratories
  : oday@hplabs.hp.com
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BOB'S BUFFET BISCUITS
 Categories: Breads, Usenet
      Yield: 2 dozen
 
     40 oz Biscuit mix
           -(e.g. 1 box of Bisquick)
    3/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
    1/3 c  Green onions, chopped
      2    Eggs, slightly beaten
      2 c  Milk
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  In a big bowl mix the biscuit mix,
  onions, eggs, milk and about 1/2 cup of the cheese.
  
  Put the dough into a  9x13 inch baking pan and smooth it down.  You
  will have to flour your hand or spatula to do this. Sprinkle the rest
  of the cheese over the top and then use the spatula or knife to score
  the dough into square biscuits. Cut all the way to the pan.
  
  Bake in a preheated oven at 350 degrees F. for 40 to 45 minutes.
  When they are done a wooden toothpick stuck into the dough will come
  out clean.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Some not-so-plain biscuits -- This recipe is from Bob Clover of
  Sausalito, California and was first published in _Sunset_ magazine.
  Yield: 24-30 biscuits.
  
  *  When you take them out of the oven, flip the pan upside down over
  a rack to get the biscuits out, then flip the rack over to get
  everything back right side up again.
  
  *  This is good if you are having a lot of company or want a lot of
  leftovers.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  20 minutes preparation, 45 minutes cooking
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Pat Caudill
  : Tektronix, Inc., Portland, Oregon, USA
  : patc@tekcrl.tek.com    tektronix!tekcrl.tek.com!patc
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CARROT RAISIN BARS
 Categories: Desserts, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------BOTTOM LAYER-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Flour

MMMMM-------------------------TOP LAYER------------------------------
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Carrots, grated
      1 c  Brown sugar, packed
  1 1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Nuts, chopped
      1 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ds Salt
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.  Cream together the butter and sugar.
  Add the flour and mix well. Form into a ball, then press it down into
  a uniform layer in a 8-inch square baking pan. Bake until golden
  brown (about 15 minutes).
  
  Combine ingredients for top layer, mixing well.  When bottom layer is
  done, pour on top and spread evenly.  Bake for 25 minutes.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Chewy carrot raisin and nut bars -- This is from "The Carrot
  Cookbook," by Audra and Jack Hendrickson. As they say, this recipe is
  beta-carotene rich. In any case, they are a tasty treat. Serves 4-6.
  
  *  Ships well for gifts and the like.  Doesn't easily break or dry
  out.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  10 minutes preparation, 40 minutes baking.
  : Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Nicholas Horton
  : Reed College, Portland, Oregon, USA
  : tektronix!reed!horton
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BERLINERKRANZER
 Categories: Cake/cookie, West europe, Usenet
      Yield: 6 dozen
 
    3/4 c  Butter (or margarine),
           -softened
    3/4 c  Solid shortening
           -(e.g. Crisco)
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ts Orange peel, grated
      2    Eggs
      4 c  Flour, all-purpose
           Red cinnamon candies
           -(optional)
           Green food coloring
           -(optional)
 
  Heat oven to 400 degrees F.  Mix thoroughly butter, shortening, sugar,
  orange peel and eggs. Blend in flour. Color with green food coloring,
  if desired.
  
  Shape dough by rounded teaspoonfuls into ropes, each about 6 inches
  long and 1/4 inch in diameter.
  
  Form each rope into a circle, bringing one end over the other and
  through into a single knot. Let about 1/2 inch extend at each end.
  Place on ungreased baking sheet. Press in red cinnamon candies, if
  desired.
  
  Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until set but not brown.  Immediately remove
  from baking sheet.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Norwegian wreath cookies -- These are decorative holiday cookies
  adding quite a bright, colorful aromatic touch to your plate of
  cookies.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate (requires some dexterity).
  : Time:  1  hour.
  : Precision:  Measure the ingredients.
  
  : Cindy W.  Poehlmann
  : AT&T Network Systems, Columbus, Ohio, USA
  : {cbosgd,cbatt}!cbdkc1!cwp
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SWEET POTATO & CRANBERRY QUICHE
 Categories: Main dish, Usenet
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 lb Sweet potatoes
    1/2 lb Carrots
    1/2 lb Cranberries
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
      4    Eggs
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      1 ds Nutmeg
      1 ds Salt
      1    Quiche shell,
           -pre-baked
           -(about 11 inches)
 
  Start some salted water boiling.  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
  Peel and grate the sweet potatoes.  Grate carrots.  Put these
  vegetables into an empty saucepan. Pour the boiling water over the
  saucepan full of vegetables and bring to a boil. Cook five minutes;
  drain.
  
  Wash cranberries and pick out the ones that are soft or blemished.
  Put the cranberries in an enameled pot with the sugar and cook them,
  covered, over low heat for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove
  the lid and cook for five minutes more, stirring almost constantly.
  
  Add cooked drained potato/carrot mixture to cranberries and cook for
  3 to 4 minutes more, stirring constantly.
  
  Beat together the milk, eggs, cream cheese, a little nutmeg and a
  dash of salt.  Stir in the cooked vegetable mixture and pour this
  filling carefully into the prepared shell.  Bake at 375 degrees F.
  for 40 minutes or until the top is golden and firm. Serve.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Sweet potatoes, carrots and cranberries in cream cheese quiche --
  This recipe has become a real holiday favorite in our family.  It is
  originally from "The Vegetarian Epicure, Book Two" by Anna Thomas.
  It is sweeter than most quiches, but not as sweet as most pies, and
  can be eaten either as a side dish, or as dessert. We usually eat it
  with the turkey because no one wants to wait until dessert time!
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  25 minutes preparation, 40 minutes baking.
  : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
  
  : Moira Mallison
  : Tektronix, Inc., Beaverton, Oregon, USA
  : tektronix!moiram
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHRISTMAS/THANKSGIVING STUFFING
 Categories: Main dish, Holiday, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
    1/2 lb Beef, ground
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  White rice, raw
      1    Poultry liver
           -(from the bird you
           -are going to stuff)
    1/2 c  Pine nuts
    1/2 c  Almonds (blanched),
           -whole
     10    Prunes, pitted
    1/2 c  Raisins
     10    Chestnuts (up to 15)
 
  Cook the chestnuts:  Cut a groove on each chestnut and roast them on
  the stove (if you've got an electric stove, placing the chestnuts on
  the burner will do the trick, though you'll have to do some cleaning
  afterwards.) When they're done, peel them. Watch your hands.
  
  Brown the beef with half the butter.  Add the rice, salt and a little
  water, and let it cook on low heat, until the water is absorbed.
  
  Boil the liver, mince it and add it into the rice and meat.  Add the
  almonds, prunes, raisins, chestnuts (cut in chunks) and pine nuts.
  Add a small amount of water and let everything simmer until the water
  is absorbed.
  
  The stuffing is ready to use.  Add the remaining butter and bake it.
  I usually wrap the stuffing in aluminum foil, put it in a separate
  pan and bake it along with the chicken. When the chicken is ready,
  the stuffing is ready too!
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Holiday stuffing with fruit and nuts -- This is an elaborate
  version of the type of poultry stuffing made in Greece. People there
  have never heard of bread stuffings and, once you taste this recipe,
  you'll never want to hear about bread stuffings either! I got the
  recipe from my mother, who got it from a friend, who got it from her
  sister-in-law, who... Yield: stuffs 5-6 lb poultry.
  
  *  If the chestnut-roasting procedure is to messy for you, then just
  boil them.
  
  *  The amounts in the ingredients list are there for completeness'
  sake. You should really interpret them as a few, a handful or one
  small package. The only thing you have to bear in mind is that
  putting more prunes will make the stuffing sourer, and putting more
  raisins will make it sweeter.
  
  *  The original recipe suggested using unpitted prunes.  I believe
  that using pitted prunes is safer for the teeth!
  
  : Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
  : Time:  1 hour preparation, 1-2 hours cooking.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Kriton Kyrimis
  : Princeton University, Computer Science Dept., Princeton, New
  Jersey, USA : kyrimis@princeton.princeton.edu
   allegra!princeton!kyrimis
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHANTUNG CHICKEN
 Categories: Poultry, Usenet
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Chicken breast,
           -skinned and boned
      2 tb Corn starch
      3 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Sherry
      1    Garlic clove,  minced
      3 tb Oil
      1 tb Sesame seeds, toasted
    1/2 lb Bean sprouts
      1    Green onion bunch
      1 tb Ginger root (fresh),
           -slivered
 
  Slice onions, separate white from green parts.
  
  Cut chicken into thin narrow strips.  Combine about 1 T cornstarch,
  about 1 T soy sauce, and sherry with garlic in dish, mix with chicken
  and set aside.
  
  Blend remaining  1 T cornstarch, remaining 2 T soy sauce and 1 cup
  water; set aside.
  
  Heat about 1 T oil in a wok.  Stir fry chicken for one minute; remove
  and set aside.
  
  Heat about 2 T oil in the wok.  Add bean sprouts, white part of onion
  and ginger.  Stir fry for 3 minutes.  Return chicken to wok; add soy
  sauce mixture, green onions and sesame.  Bring to boil, cook till
  thick.  Serve over noodles or rice.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Quick Asian-style chicken breast.  Yield:  Serves 2-3.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy to moderate.
  : Time:  20 minutes.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Katherine Rives Albitz
  : Hewlett-Packard, Ft.  Collins, Colorado, USA
  : hplabs!hpfcla!hpcnof!k_albitz
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CINNAMON CHICKEN
 Categories: Poultry, Usenet
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Chicken, cut up
           -(1 large chicken or
           -2 small chickens)
      2    Onions, diced
      5    Garlic cloves
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/2 c  Vermouth or sherry
      2 oz Brandy
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Tomato paste
    1/2 lb Tomatoes, diced
 
  In a large casserole, saute onions and garlic over medium heat in
  butter until onions are soft. Brown chicken pieces in the butter and
  remove from pot as they are done.
  
  When all chicken pieces are browned, turn up heat, add vermouth and
  brandy to pot and stir until bubbling.
  
  Turn heat down to low, add cinnamon, tomato paste and pepper, and stir
  until mixed. Add chicken back to pot and add tomatoes. Cook over very
  low heat for at least 2 hours, until chicken is tender.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Chicken with tomatoes and cinnamon.  Yield:  Serves 6-8.
  
  *  Vary the seasonings to taste by leaving out the garlic or doubling
  it, or by increasing or decreasing the amount of cayenne pepper. You
  can use crushed red pepper flakes in place of the cayenne.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, 2 hours simmering.
  : Precision:  no need to measure, except the cayenne pepper.
  
  : Andrew L.  Duane
  : Compugraphic Corp., Wilmington, Massachusetts, USA
  : {decvax,ulowell,ima,ism780c}!cg-atla!duane
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN MILANAISE
 Categories: Poultry, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Chicken
      1 tb Salt
      3 tb Butter, unsalted
      3 tb Flour
      2    Egg yolks
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 c  Rice, white (to serve
           -on the side)
           Salt and pepper
           -(for the sauce)
 
  Place the chicken in a pot.  Cover it with water, add the salt and
  bring it to a boil, skimming any scum that may form on the surface.
  Turn down the heat, cover the pot and cook the chicken for about 1
  hour or until it is done.
  
  Remove the chicken from the pot.  Skim and discard the chicken fat
  from the surface of the broth.  Reserve about 2 cups of broth for the
  sauce and use the remaining broth to cook the rice according to
  standard procedures for cooking rice.
  
  While the rice is cooking, make the sauce:  melt the butter under low
  heat in a saucepan and add in the flour, salt and pepper. Stir until
  you get a uniform mixture and then add the reserved broth gradually,
  stirring constantly.  When the mixture thickens, remove from the heat.
  
  Beat the egg yolks with the lemon juice and add them into the sauce.
  Stir the sauce until the egg yolks are completely blended. The sauce
  is ready. Cut the chicken and serve with sauce on both the chicken
  and the rice.
  
  Chicken with white sauce -- This is what my mother serves as Chicken
  Milanaise.  I once ordered Chicken Milanaise at a restaurant, and they
  served me an entirely different dish, so I'm not sure as to whether
  I'm using the name properly. In any case, this recipe is one of my
  favourites! Yield: serves 4-6.
  
  *  You are supposed to use white pepper in the sauce but, since I
  don't mind seeing a few black specs in the sauce, I always use black
  pepper.
  
  *  If you are going to reheat the sauce, make sure that it doesn't
  come to a boil, otherwise the egg will separate.
  
  : Difficulty:  Easy.
  : Time:  About 1 1/2 hours.
  : Precision:  Measure the sauce ingredients.
  
  : Kriton Kyrimis
  : Princeton University, Computer Science Dept., Princeton, New
  Jersey, USA : kyrimis@princeton.edu       princeton!kyrimis
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHESTNUT STUFFING
 Categories: Main dish, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
    1/2 lb Butter
      1 c  Onion, chopped
      4 c  Celery
           -(including leaves),
           -chopped coarsely
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
      6 c  Bread cubes (white), dry
      1 lb Chestnuts, roasted,
           -peeled and chopped
           Salt and pepper
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 c  Cream, light
    1/4 c  White wine
 
  In hot butter in a large skillet, saute onion, celery and parsley,
  stirring, for about 5 minutes.
  
  In a large kettle, combine bread cubes, chestnuts, salt, pepper and
  nutmeg. Toss to mix well.
  
  Combine cream and wine; mix well.  Add to bread mixture,  along with
  the vegetables and drippings in skillet.  Toss lightly, using 2 forks.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Poultry stuffing with chestnuts, bread and wine -- This recipe has
  long been part of my Thanksgiving Day tradition.  I have long since
  forgotten its source. Yield: Stuffs 12-16 lb poultry.
  
  *  In North America, use half and half for light cream.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy but tedious.
  : Time:  1 hour preparation.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Marilyn Kushner
  : Microlab, University of California, Berkeley, California, USA
  : Marilyn@merlin.berkeley.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PUMPKIN CHEESE SOUP
 Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pumpkin (big enough
           -to hold 6-10
           -servings of soup)
      2 tb Butter, melted
      2 tb Butter
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 lg Carrots, shredded
      2    Celery sticks, chopped
      4 c  Vegetable broth
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    3/4 c  Cream, light
      1 c  Cheddar or gruyere
           -cheese, grated
    1/3 c  White wine, dry
      2 tb Parsley, minced
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Butter a baking sheet.
  
  Prepare pumpkin:  cut off the top, scoop out seeds, brush inside with
  about 2 T melted butter. Replace top and place pumpkin on baking
  sheet. Bake 45 mins or until tender when pierced with a fork. The
  pumpkin should be a bit droopy but still hold its shape well.
  
  Meanwhile, melt about 2 T butter in a big saucepan.  Add onion,
  carrots, celery.  Saute until soft, about 10 mins.  Add broth,
  garlic, salt, pepper and nutmeg. Cover and simmer 20 minutes. Cool
  slightly.
  
  Puree vegetable mixture in 2 or 3 batches in a blender or food
  processor. Put back in saucepan; stir in the cream. Reheat. Add
  cheese and wine, heat until cheese melts. Stir frequently after
  adding milk to avoid scorching. Place hot pumpkin on serving platter.
  Pour in soup.  Sprinkle with parsley.
  
  Serve the soup by ladling out of the pumpkin at the table, scooping a
  little bit of pumpkin into each serving. The pumpkin then makes a
  great centerpiece for your table, while allowing people to have
  second helpings.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Cheese soup in a pumpkin shell -- This recipe came from the 1983
  Half Moon Bay Pumpkin Festival and was published in our local
  newspaper in 1984.
  
  *  I use half gruyere and half cheddar.  Shred the cheeses very
  finely so they will melt rapidly. After the soup is all gone, the
  pumpkin can be cut up, washed, and used in pumpkin pie. It may need
  more baking to become soft enough to puree for the pies.
  
  *  It was impossible to find pumpkins after Halloween near San
  Francisco, but fortunately they keep for a month until Thanksgiving
  in a cool area if left uncut.
  
  *  In North America, light cream is often called half and half.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  1 hour.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Judy Anderson
  : Lucid, Inc., Menlo Park, California, USA
  : decwrl!spar!edsel!yduJ
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: EASY CARROTS AU GRATIN
 Categories: Vegetables, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      3 c  Carrots, sliced
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 lb Cheese (processed)
 
  Slice the carrots and saute in about 1 T butter over low heat for 5-10
  minutes, until cooked to taste.
  
  Make a roux with the butter and flour.  Add the milk (warmed) and cook
  until thick. Add cheese and cook until cheese is melted. Mix in the
  cooked carrots.
  
  Place in greased casserole and sprinkle with buttered bread crumbs.
  Bake at 350 degrees F. for 15-20 minutes or until brown.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A simple and unusual carrot-cheese casserole -- This is a family
  recipe that my in-laws make for holiday dinners.  I've never seen it
  in any cookbook. It's unusual, but good. Yield: Serves 4-6.
  
  *  Process cheese is sometimes called American cheese or Canadian
  cheese depending on where it is bought.  You can make a standard
  cheddar cheese sauce instead, or you can use something like Velveeta
  instead.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, 20 minutes baking.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Michelle Berteig
  : California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California, USA
  : michelle@tybalt.caltech.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BEETS IN MUSTARD SAUCE
 Categories: Vegetables, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beets, trimmed
      3 tb Butter, unsalted
    1/4 c  Shallots, minced
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
      3 tb Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Cream
           Parsley, chopped
           Salt and pepper
 
  Scrub the beets lightly and boil them for 35 minutes until barely
  tender. Drain under cold water, peel, then slice into 1/4 inch pieces.
  
  Melt the butter and cook the shallots for 4 minutes over medium heat.
  Turn the heat down and stir in the flour.  Cook for 2 minutes
  stirring often. Add the stock, mustard and cream. Cook for a few
  minutes until thick.
  
  Combine with the beets.  Cook for a few minutes until it is warm.
  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Serve with parsley sprinkled on top.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Beets in a tangy mustard sauce -- From Bert Greene's "Greene on
  Greens."
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  50 minutes cooking,  10 minutes preparation.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Nicholas Horton
  : Reed College, Portland, OR  USA
  : horton@reed.uucp
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PECAN PUMPKIN PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Holiday, Usenet
      Yield: 1 pie
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1    Pastry pie shell,
           -flaky, 9-inch
           -(uncooked)

MMMMM-----------------------PUMPKIN LAYER----------------------------
    3/4 c  Pumpkin
      2 tb Light brown sugar,
           -packed
      1 lg Egg
      2 tb Sour cream
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Nutmeg, grated

MMMMM------------------------PECAN LAYER-----------------------------
    3/4 c  Corn syrup, light
    1/2 c  Light brown sugar,
           -packed
      3 lg Eggs
      3 tb Butter (unsalted),
           -melted and cooled
  1 1/3 c  Pecans
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Lemon rind, grated
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Prepare pie shell.  Keep chilled.
  
  Whisk together until smooth pumpkin, about 2 T brown sugar, 1 egg,
  sour cream, cinnamon and nutmeg.
  
  In another bowl, combine corn syrup, about 1/2 cup brown sugar, 3
  eggs, about 3 T butter, vanilla, lemon rind, lemon juice and salt.
  Stir in pecans.
  
  Spread the pumpkin layer into the pie shell, then carefully spoon the
  pecan mixture over it.  Bake in the upper third of a preheated 425
  degree F. oven for 20 minutes, then reduce to 350 degrees F. for
  20-30 minutes more.  The filling will puff slightly, but the center
  will not be completely set. Cool on a rack.  Serve warm or at room
  temperature.  Reheat in a preheated 350 degree F. oven for 10 to 15
  minutes.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Pecan-pumpkin pie -- This pie is not as terribly sweet as straight
  pecan pie, and less ordinary than pumpkin pie.  The recipe came
  originally from _Gourmet_ magazine.  Yield:  1 pie.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, 1 hour cooking.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Ed Sznyter
  : Distributed Systems Group, Stanford, Stanford, CA, USA
  : ews@pescadero.stanford.edu
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRED'S MUSKRAT
 Categories: Game, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Muskrats (all fat
           -and glands removed)
    1/2 lb Bacon
    1/2    Celery bunch, chopped
      4    Onions, chopped
    1/2 lb Oleo
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
           Salt
           Pepper
     21 oz Tomato soup
           -(2 standard cans)
 
  Saute bacon, celery, onions, oleo and cayenne pepper together for 10
  minutes.
  
  Put rats in bottom of a pan you can cover tightly (my mother makes a
  double batch and uses the roaster she cooks turkey in).  Pour sauteed
  mixture over the rats, and then cover with tomato soup.  (Don't add
  water to the soup.)
  
  Bake, covered, for 2 1/2 hours at 350 degrees F or until done.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Muskrat roasted in tomato sauce -- In northwestern Ohio and
  downriver Detroit, we have "muskrat suppers" in the winter, sponsored
  by churches and volunteer fire departments to raise money, rather the
  way other people have chicken and ham dinners.  This recipe comes
  from Fred Witty, via the cookbook put out by my parents' church.
  
  Legend has it that during the depression, the Bishop of Detroit
  declared muskrats to be fish (since they live in the water), so they
  could be eaten by Catholics on Fridays.
  
  *  Muskrats are small rodents that live in swamp and build beaver-like
  houses out of cat-tails and mud. In New Jersey and Ohio, at least,
  they are trapped for their fur; I suspect that knowing a trapper is
  the only way you can get muskrats.
  
  *  The recipe book I have has a recipe for muskrats for a crowd, that
  (for 20 rats) uses the above ingredients (but quantities unspecified,
  except it only uses about 1/4 lb oleo), plus chopped green and red
  peppers, garlic salt, 5 bouillon cubes and 3 bay leaves. Around
  Detroit, muskrats are cooked with cabbage and potatoes, and some
  folks at home roast them with apples and onions.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy once you have the muskrats.
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, 3 hours cooking.
  : Precision:  count the muskrats.
  
  : Pat Carstensen
  : Bell Communications Research, Inc., Red Bank, New Jersey, USA
  : nvuxa!nvuxb!pjc2
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOT CABBAGE SLAW
 Categories: Salads, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
      1 ts Caraway seed
    1/3 c  Water
    1/4 c  White wine vinegar
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Tabasco
      8 c  Cabbage, shredded
           -(about 1/2 cabbage)
 
  Melt butter in a large skillet.  Add onion and caraway seed.  Cook 5
  minutes or until onion is tender. Add water, vinegar, salt and hot
  sauce, and mix well. Then add the cabbage and mix well again. Cover
  and let simmer about 15 minutes, or until the cabbage is crisp-tender.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A spicy warm slaw, this came originally from our local newspaper.
  We enjoy it a lot. Yield: serves 4-6.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, 20 minutes cooking.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : John Wilcox
  : AT&T Corporate Education Center, Lisle, Illinois, USA
  : ihnp4!ltuxa!jhw
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PECAN WILD RICE PILAF
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Holiday, Usenet
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Wild rice, rinsed well
  1 3/4 c  Wheat pilaf
      1 c  Pecan halves
      1 c  Currants, dried
      1    Scallion bunch,
           -thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Italian parsley,
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh mint leaves,
           -chopped
           Zest of 2 oranges,
           -grated
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Orange juice
           Black pepper,
           -freshly ground
 
  In a medium saucepan, bring broth to a boil.  Add wild rice to boiling
  broth. Bring back to a boil, reduce heat to medium-low and cook,
  covered, for 50 minutes or until rice is tender. Do not overcook.
  Remove to a large bowl.
  
  While the rice is cooking, in another saucepan bring about 2 1/4 cups
  water to a boil. Stir in the pilaf, cover and bring back to a boil.
  Reduce heat to low and simmer 15 minutes, or until pilaf is tender.
  Remove from heat, let rest 15 minutes, and add to the (cooked) wild
  rice. Add remaining ingredients and toss well. Serve at room
  temperature.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Wheat and wild rice pilaf with pecans -- I originally got this
  recipe from the Sunday magazine of the local paper, I served it last
  year for Christmas dinner, and it's very good.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  1 hour cooking, 1 hour cooling.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Nancy Mintz
  : UNIX System Development Lab, AT&T-IS, Summit, NJ
  : ihnp4!attunix!nlm
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPICY KEBABS
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      2 lb Pork or lamb
           -(boneless), lean, cut
           -into 1 1/2 inch cubes
    1/4 c  Peanut butter, smooth
      1 ts Coriander, ground
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper (or more,
           -to taste)
      1 ts Cumin, ground
    1/2 ts Pepper
      4    Onions
      1    Garlic clove, minced
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Grate the onions.  This is best done using a food processor.  Mincing
  is not good enough; you want to end up with something wet and mushy.
  Don't stick your nose into the food processor.
  
  Put all the ingredients into a large bowl, mix well, and cover.
  Refrigerate for several hours, mixing occasionally.
  
  Put meat cubes on skewers, keeping as much of the onion mixture on
  them as you can. Grill over hot coals, turning to brown each side,
  for 20 to 25 minutes or until meat is cooked through. (Lamb should
  still be slightly pink; pork should not.)
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Spicy pork or lamb kebabs -- I copied this from a newspaper or
  magazine a long time ago; I forget where. It was originally for pork,
  but it's good with lamb, too.
  
  *  You could probably put some vegetables (onions, bell peppers) on
  the skewers between the meat chunks; watch out that the veggies don't
  burn.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, several hours marinating, 30 minutes
  cooking.
  : Precision:  Approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Jeffrey Mogul
  : DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto, California, USA
  : {ucbvax,decvax}!decwrl!mogul     mogul@decwrl.DEC.COM
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MOLDED CRANBERRY RELISH
 Categories: Relishes, Holiday, Usenet
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 c  Marshmallow creme
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream
      3 oz Cream cheese

MMMMM---------------------------RELISH--------------------------------
     10 oz Cranberries, fresh
    3/4 c  Water
      6 oz Raspberry Jello mix
           -(1 package)
    1/4 c  Sugar, granulated
      1 c  Celery, chopped fine
      1 c  Tokay grapes
           -(quartered and seeded)
  2 1/2 c  Pineapple (canned),
           -crushed, including
           -syrup (one #2 can)
 
  MAKE DRESSING:  The night before serving the relish, place the cream
  cheese and marshmallow creme in a small bowl.  Mash lightly with a
  fork to barely break up cream cheese.  Add whipping cream and cover
  tightly.  Refrigerate overnight.
  
  15 minutes before serving, whip mixture with an electric mixer until
  it reaches the consistency of thick, but not stiff, whipped cream.
  
  MAKE RELISH:  Rinse cranberries thoroughly.  Place in an 8-cup
  saucepan with water and cover. Bring to a boil and cook until the
  berries have "popped." Remove from heat and, using an electric mixer,
  beat gently until all the berries are broken. Add Jello and sugar.
  Place saucepan over a bowl of ice and stir occasionally until mixture
  has thickened but not jelled.
  
  Add grapes, celery and crushed pineapple (including packing syrup).
  Pour into prepared mold and chill in refrigerator until set (about 3
  hours).
  
  To serve, unmold relish onto a plate and place dressing in a separate
  dish. Serve a couple of dollops of dressing with each serving of
  relish.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  For years my mother required us to taste her ever-changing version
  of a fresh cranberry relish she insisted serving at Thanksgiving and
  Christmas. The unanimous family response to the inevitably bitter
  dish was, "Do we have to?" Then one year a friend came to
  Thanksgiving dinner and contributed what is now known simply as "the
  recipe." Mom never tried to improve on this addictive relish. Yield:
  Serves 8-10.
  
  *  The most difficult step is in unmolding the relish.  I always
  spray my mold very lightly with a coating of an aerosol cooking oil
  (such as "PAM") before filling it with the relish. When it's time to
  unmold, I run a thin spatula around the outside of the molded relish
  to barely loosen it, place the serving plate on top and invert the
  mold and plate. I rarely have to dip the mold in hot water to loosen
  the relish.
  
  *  I usually use a standard ring mold and put the dressing in a footed
  compote which sits in the center of the unmolded ring of relish.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  10 minutes preparation, overnight chilling, 30 more minutes
  preparation.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Pamela McGarvey
  : UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
  : {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOAP, part 1 of 2
 Categories: Usenet
      Yield: 6 pounds
 
      9 lb Suet (also called
           -tallow or beef fat)
      1 pk Lye (see note)
      3 c  Water
      2 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 oz Volatile fragrance
           -oil (optional; see note)
 
  TOOLS YOU WILL NEED:  1)  A large pot (metal or ceramic) -- at least 2
  gallons -- with a lid (for rendering the fat). 2) One long wooden
  spoon -- at least 10 inches -- that you can sacrifice, because the
  lye will eat away the wood. 3) A large ceramic (or glass) bowl
  capable of holding all the water, lemon juice and fat, with some room
  to spare. (I use a ceramic tub that is about 6 inches high and 24
  inches in diameter; do not use metal, as it will corrode. Even
  stainless steel will corrode.) 4) Finally, you will need some glass,
  ceramic and/or wooden molds to pour the soap into. (I use glass
  baking dishes; two 8 1/2 x 14-inch glass pans will make bars of soap
  that are about 1 to 1 1/2 inches thick. Again, DO NOT USE METAL
  CONTAINERS, as they will corrode.)
  
  STEP 1:  Render the fat.  To do this, cut the fat into hand-sized
  pieces and place in a large pot and cover it. Heat on medium until
  all the fat is melted.  You should stir it occasionally.  You should
  probably plan to turn the fan on high or open your kitchen windows
  while you are doing this. (Note that if you are starting with a pure
  fat, such as coconut oil or olive oil, you don't need to do this.
  Skip to Step 4.)
  
  STEP 2:  Cool the fat so that it is below the boiling point of water.
  Add an equal volume of water to the fat, and bring the mixture to a
  boil. Cover and let cool over night.
  
  STEP 3:  Take the fat out of the pot.  I find the easiest way to do
  this is to slice the fat in half with a knife and then cut wedges.
  You can push the first wedge down into the water and then lift its
  neighboring wedge out. Scrape all the non-fat gunk off the bottom of
  the fat (the side of the fat that was at the fat-water interface).
  
  STEP 4:  Measure out about six pounds of rendered fat (be accurate
  with this measurement). Cut the fat into small pieces (about the size
  of a tennis ball, but squarish, not round) and place in a bowl.
  
  STEP 5:  Set up your soap-making work area.  It should be outside, in
  a very well-ventilated area. It's supposed to help to do it on a
  warmer day rather than a cooler day, but I've never noticed the
  difference. Also, clear your stove top and open the window in the
  kitchen before you start making the soap.
  
  On a table, put your ceramic tub, the bowl of fat, the opened
  container of lye, a container with the water, and a container with
  the lemon juice.  If you will be adding scent, keep its container
  nearby. Also place your soap mold containers nearby. PUT ON ALL YOUR
  SAFETY GEAR.
  
  STEP 6:  Make the soap:  Pour the water into the ceramic tub.  Very
  carefully pour the lye into the tub. This is an exothermic reaction:
  it gives off heat, which is used to melt the fat. It also gives off
  odors which you don't want to breathe, so keep your head back. Stir
  the lye to dissolve it in the water. Then start adding the fat to the
  water/lye mixture, stirring with the long wooden spoon. Add the fat a
  bit at a time and stir until it's all melted. Then stir in the lemon
  juice, scent (if you are using it), and pour into molds. When the
  soap is firmer but not yet hard, cut into bars with a knife. It
  should be hard in an hour or so; you can test it with your finger.
  
  STEP 7:  Wrap in clean cotton rags and store in a cool, airy place
  for 3-6 months.
  
  STEP 8:  When you clean up the pan that you made the soap it, be
  somewhat careful as there is probably still some unreacted lye in the
  pan.  The only time I've had a problem with this is when I've tried
  to scrape the dry soap that lines the pan off with my fingernail and
  then a few minutes later I notice that the skin under my fingernail
  is burning.  The easiest solution is just to wear gloves when you're
  cleaning the pan. It probably also helps to wash with extremely hot
  water so that the remaining soap (and fat if there is any) melts and
  dissolves in the water.
  
  : Continued in Part 2
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOAP, part 2 of 2
 Categories: Usenet
      Yield: 6 pounds
 
           See Part 1
 
  : Continued from Part 1
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  In the U.S., Red Devil lye comes in 12-oz containers.  In Europe it
  generally comes in 350-g containers, which is about 3 percent more.
  You don't want to measure lye, you want to use the whole container.
  If your container is not this size, then scale the recipe up or down
  accordingly. Leftover lye is a serious disposal problem.
  
  *  Where to buy 9 pounds of fat? If you're using an animal fat (beef
  or pork), you can buy it from your butcher. What I find I have to do
  is reserve it, because they normally don't keep the fat after they've
  cut up their cow. Sometimes they will charge you for the fat (I've
  paid anywhere from 10 to 45 cents a pound); sometimes they won't.
  I've only ever made soap with beef fat; this makes a hard, mild,
  slow-lathering soap. The recipe will work equally well with other
  animal fats to produce a similar result.  Coconut oil yields a
  softer, quick-lathering soap. Olive oil and other vegetable cooking
  oils yield a very soft soap that never completely hardens.
  Unfortunately, these oils are sensitive to air and light, and soap
  made from cooking oils will spoil in a few weeks unless it is
  refrigerated.
  
  *  Volatile fragrance oils, also called essential oils, are highly
  concentrated scent ingredients.  You can usually buy them at
  health-food stores, and you can sometimes find exotic fragrances at
  specialty food-and-spice shops.  The amount that you should use
  depends on how fragrant you want the soap to be. A few drops of musk
  oil is enough to scent an entire batch of soap; less-potent
  fragrances such as a fruit oil might require about a teaspoon or two
  5-10 ml. Soap scented with herbs is also popular; herbs like lemon
  thyme or verbena or lavender work well. To scent with herbs, make an
  herbal oil by packing a 1/2-cup (approximately) container with herbs
  and then filling it with a pleasant-smelling vegetable oil, such as
  almond oil. Let this mixture sit for a few weeks, stirring it every
  day, then heat in a double boiler for 10 minutes, then cool and
  strain the oil.
  
  *  The soap works just fine with no fragrance at all, and many people
  prefer it that way. I certainly do.
  
  *  You may run into problems at the stage "Add the fat and stir until
  it's all melted." I almost always do. What happens is that the
  water/lye mixture runs out of heat before all the fat melts. What you
  have to do is add heat somehow.  The way I do this is to grab the tub
  (which now contains all the fat), go into the kitchen, put it on top
  of a burner, and turn the burner (and the fan) on high. (Make sure
  the windows are all open too.) When all the fat is melted, I go back
  outside and continue, adding the lemon juice.
  
  *  The lemon juice lowers the pH.  The finished soap will have a pH of
  about 9; you can lower this by adding more lemon juice.
  
  : Difficulty:  challenging.
  : Time:  Day 1:  30 minutes preparation; 1-2 hours cooking.
  : Day 2:  usually about 1 hour.
  : Precision:  Be precise.  Also be careful.
  
  : Aviva Garrett
  : Santa Cruz, CA
  : Excelan, Inc., San Jose
  : ucbvax!mtxinu!excelan!aviva
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RED BRAISED PORK SHOULDER
 Categories: Meats, Usenet
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           Pork shoulder (5 to 7 lb),
           -with bone and rind
           Water
    3/4 c  Sherry (dry)
           -or Shaoxing wine
    1/3 c  Dark soy sauce
           Chinese yellow rock sugar,
           -6 crystals (each crystal
           -about 1 inch square)
  1 1/2 ts Salt (or to taste)
      6    Star anise cloves
      1    Cinnamon stick
           -(about 2 inches long)
      4 sm Chili peppers,
           -dried (optional)
           Tangerine peel, dried,
           -3 pieces (optional)
      6    Garlic cloves (crushed)
      4 sl Ginger (thick)
      1    Scallion (whole), trimmed
      2    Spinach bunches, washed
 
  Put the pork in a large pot with water to cover.  Bring to a boil,
  simmer for 2 minutes, then drain and rinse. Again add the pork to the
  pot with fresh water to cover, add the wine, and bring to a boil.
  Turn the heat to medium, partially cover, and cook for 30 minutes.
  Add the rest of the ingredients (except the spinach), and simmer the
  pork for another 2 1/2 to 3 hours. The rind and the fat should be
  very soft when it's done.
  
  Remove the pork from the liquid and keep it warm.  Strain the sauce
  into a large skillet and reduce it over high heat.  This may take a
  while, depending on how much liquid you end up with.
  
  Meanwhile, steam the spinach until just wilted, salt it lightly, and
  keep it warm. When the sauce is reduced (it should be the consistency
  of a thin syrup), put the pork shoulder in the center of a large
  platter, arrange the spinach around it, and pour the sauce over.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A Chinese Method of Cooking a Pork Roast -- I got this recipe
  originally from the _San Francisco Chronicle_.  It uses some
  ingredients that might be hard to get in some parts of the country,
  but suggests alternatives. Yield: Serves 10-15.
  
  *  Can substitute about 1/3 C granulated sugar for the rock crystals.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, 3-4 hours cooking.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Jeff Lichtman
  : Relational Technology, Inc., Alameda, California
  : {amdahl, sun}!rtech!jeff
  : {ucbvax, decvax}!mtxinu!rtech!jeff
  :
  : Saints should always be judged guilty until they are proved
  innocent..
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PRINZREGENT TORTE
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german, Usenet
      Yield: 1 cake
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      9 oz Butter, salted
      9 oz Sugar
    1/8 ts Vanilla extract
      4 lg Eggs, beaten
  1 2/3 c  Cake flour, about
           -(sift before measuring!!)
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
      1 ts Baking powder

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 c  Chocolate pudding
           -(extra strong)
      7 oz Butter, unsalted
  1 2/3 c  Powdered 10X sugar

MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      1 oz Cocoa powder, bitter
      1 oz Butter (sweet), melted
      3 tb Water, boiling
           -(up to 4 T)
 
  In an electric mixer, whip the salted butter.  Add sugar, vanilla and
  eggs. Beat smooth.  Mix flour with cornstarch and baking powder and
  sift a second time (you sift it once before you measured it, right?).
  Add flour mixture to egg mixture, stirring constantly.
  
  Make 8 layers, each less than about 1/4 inch thick, by baking each in
  the bottom of an 8-inch springform layer pan.  Do this by cutting a
  round of baker's parchment that exactly fits the bottom of the layer
  pan, then using a spatula to spread the dough evenly over the
  parchment. Make sure that it doesn't get too thin at the edges. Bake
  each layer for 7 minutes in a preheated 400 degree F. oven.  Stack
  the layers separated by waxed paper.
  
  MAKE THE PUDDING:  Use more chocolate in the pudding than you would
  normally use. If you want to be lazy and use pudding from a mix, then
  add about a tablespoon of top-quality cocoa to the pudding mix. Stir
  the pudding while it cools so that it does not congeal. Beat the
  unsalted butter until it is very smooth. When the butter and pudding
  are about the same temperature, add the pudding to the butter to get
  an even, smooth buttercream.
  
  Use the pudding/butter mixture as mortar, and layer the cake together,
  spreading the pudding/butter evenly between the layers.  Make sure the
  layers are even and parallel; if they are not, or if one is not
  straight, you can mend things with a little extra pudding here and
  there. Do not put pudding on top of the topmost layer, and try not to
  get too much on the outside edges.
  
  MAKE A CHOCOLATE FROSTING:  Sift the powdered 10X sugar and cocoa
  together, add the melted butter while stirring constantly, then add
  boiling water. Frost the cake, taking pains to make sure the sides
  are perfectly smooth and the top is perfectly smooth. Let the cake
  sit at cool room temperature for at least an hour before serving.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Austrian 8-layer chocolate cake -- I made this recipe for my
  boyfriend on his birthday and he asked me to marry him (I did). I'm
  not saying for sure that the Prinzregent Torte is why Don wanted to
  marry me, but I've always worried that it might have been. It is a
  magnificent recipe that always evokes incredulous cries of pleasure
  from people that I serve it to. The cake is a lot of work, so I only
  make it about once a year, but the people that I make it for feel
  very special. Yield: Serves 2-8.
  
  *  If you are not an experienced baker, you should be warned that in
  recipes like this it is important to measure exactly and to follow the
  instructions exactly. People who prefer to cook by testing, tasting,
  and adding more ingredients should avoid intricate baking.
  
  *  These layers are baked in the bottom of a springform pan.  Such a
  pan bottom is about 8 inches in diameter, and has a raised lip that
  is about 1/8 inch high. It resembles a miniature pizza pan. I have
  never succeeded in making this torte with layers bigger than about 10
  inches; about 8 inches is easier. The baker's parchment is crucial
  and there is no good substitute, though buttered kraft paper (from
  shopping bags) will work in a pinch. Use a new piece of parchment for
  each layer. If you don't make the layers straight, then when you pile
  them up, the cake will be mounded up in the middle or will sag down
  in the middle or will tilt to one side.
  
  *  If you are not an experienced cake froster, then make double the
  recipe of frosting. Unskilled frosters usually use too much frosting,
  and you don't really want to run out. You can charge money to people
  who want to lick the spoon if there is any left over.
  
  Difficulty:  rather difficult;  Time:  1 hour;  Precision:  measure
  carefully.
  
  : Delight Covill
  : Fairchild Camera and Instrument
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KOLACHKI
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Russian, Holiday, Usenet
      Yield: 6 dozen
 
MMMMM------------------------COOKIE DOUGH-----------------------------
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
           -(at room temperature)
    1/2 lb Butter (at room
           -temperature)
      3 c  Flour
      1 x  Walnut filling, below
           -OR
     12 oz Poppy seed filling
           -(1 can)

MMMMM-----------------------WALNUT FILLING----------------------------
      1 lb Walnuts, finely ground
      1    Egg
      1 c  Sugar
           Water
 
  Mix butter and cream cheese until smooth.  Add flour and mix again
  until smooth.  Making this dough is easy with a food processor, hard
  with a mixer.
  
  Roll dough into 3 balls.  Refrigerate dough to keep it from drying
  out. The dough can be refrigerated for 1-2 hours, but it is not
  necessary.  Roll out 1 ball at a time and flour lightly. Roll dough
  out in flour or granulated sugar so it doesn't stick.
  
  Cut dough into squares or circles using cookie or biscuit cutter.  Add
  about a teaspoon of filling. Roll squares into "logs." Fold circles
  over and seal with a fork. Bake at 375 degrees F. for 10-15 minutes
  or until lightly browned.
  
  MAKE FILLING:  Mix all ingredients together.  Add water to obtain a
  sticky consistency.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Russian Cookies -- This recipe is from Mrs. Malinch, my little
  sister's high school Russian teacher.  I usually make this recipe at
  Christmas or Easter.
  
  My favorite fillings are poppy seed and walnut.  A recipe for the
  walnut filling is included.  The poppy seed filling can be found
  canned (Solo brand) in either the gourmet or cake section of most
  grocery stores. Yield: 6 dozen Kolachki.
  
  *  The kolachki are delicate, so do not throw them in a plastic bag
  or pile high in a jar as you would cookies.  The kolachki can be
  frozen.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate, the assembly requires nimble fingers.
  : Time:  30 minutes preparation, up to 2 hours cooling, 15 minutes
  baking. : Precision:  measure carefully.
  
  : Laura Scarbro
  : c/o David Scarbro
  : Integrated Solutions, Inc.  Boulder, Colorado
  : {ucbvax|hao|allegra}!nbires!fred!hds
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TARRAGON GAME HENS
 Categories: Poultry, Herbs/spice, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Cornish game hens
      6 tb Butter, at room
           -temperature
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Tarragon, dried
           -(or about 1 T
           -fresh tarragon)
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.  Prepare the hens by rinsing
  thoroughly, checking for pin feathers and patting dry.  Be sure to
  remove yellow fat found at the cavity opening.
  
  Gently separate the skin from the flesh by sliding your fingers
  between and tearing the connecting membrane.  It is easiest to begin
  at the cavity opening and work up the breast. Leave skin attached at
  the lower two-thirds of the wings and base of the legs. Work
  carefully over the breastbone area so as not to tear the skin which
  is firmly attached at this point.
  
  Thoroughly blend the butter, lemon juice, tarragon and salt.  If the
  butter is not soft, it will be difficult to incorporate the lemon
  juice.
  
  Using your fingers, spread a layer of herb butter under the loosened
  skin of each hen. Spread a small amount on the skin. Tuck wings under
  the back of the hen and set each hen on its side, breast down on a
  roasting rack over a roasting pan.
  
  Roast for 15 minutes, then turn hens to other side.  Roast for
  another 15 minutes, then set hens on their backs with breast up and
  roast for a final 15 minutes (total cooking time about 45 minutes).
  Each time the hens are turned, baste by spooning pan juices over the
  bird. Hens are fully cooked when juices run clear and drumstick moves
  easily in its socket.
  
  Remove birds to a warm platter and let sit for 5 minutes.  Reduce pan
  juices to a thin glaze consistency over high heat and serve as a
  sauce. (You may want to flavor the pan juices with a little dry white
  wine.) Quarter birds before serving. Each bird should serve two
  people.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Cornish game hens basted in tarragon butter -- This method of
  "basting" fowl by spreading an herb butter under the skin infuses the
  meat with the flavor of the herbs which usually is kept on the skin
  with normal external basting.
  
  *  This basting method can also be used when grilling, either over a
  barbecue or in the broiler. I prefer barbecuing to oven roasting in
  the summer (I tend to roast along with the birds) and prepare the
  birds a little differently in this case. Rather than grilling whole,
  before the butter is spread under the skin, each bird is split along
  the spine using a sharp heavy knife.  This is quite easy since the
  spine and ribs are easily cut with moderately heavy pressure and
  rocking motion on the knife blade. I then spread the bird, breast up,
  and crack the breast bone to flatten with a sharp blow on the breast
  with the heel of my hand. The wings are tucked under themselves and
  the legs and thighs left loose. The birds can be cooked ahead of time
  and taken on a picnic or prepped in advance and grilled at the picnic.
  
  *  Margarine may be substituted for the butter without major
  noticeable effects on the flavor.
  
  *  In the summer, I like to serve either a tabbouleh or Italian tomato
  salad (quartered RIPE tomatoes sprinkled with chopped fresh basil and
  drizzled with olive oil) and a white zinfadel.
  
  *  Since I like herb butters with all kinds of fish and fowl and have
  an herb garden, I generally make up 2 cups or more of herb butter at
  a time, using a food processor to assure thorough blending. The
  butter keeps well in the fridge for 2-3 weeks.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  15 minutes preparation, 45 minutes cooking.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Pamela McGarvey
  : UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, California
  : {hao,sdcrdcf}!cepu!pam
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HAZELNUT CHERRY TART
 Categories: Desserts, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Plain flour
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 oz Hazelnuts, roasted
           -ground
      2 tb Sugar
      2 oz Butter
      1    Egg yolk
      2 ts Water

MMMMM----------------------CUSTARD FILLING---------------------------
      4    Egg yolks
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  1 3/4 c  Cream
      3 ts Gelatine
      2 tb Water

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 lb Cherries, canned
      2 ts Gelatine
      2 ts Rum (see note)
 
  MAKE PASTRY:  Sift flour and add all dry ingredients together, with
  the sugar in the centre, on a pastry board. Add the butter
  (softened), egg yolk and water. Work the liquids into the sugar,
  until it is creamy.
  
  Now work in the flour mixture, as you would for any sweet pastry.
  Press the dough into a greased 9-inch flan tin. Prick the base of the
  pastry all over. Refrigerate for 30 mins, then cook in a moderate
  oven (375 degrees F.) for 15 to 20 mins (until golden brown)
  
  MAKE FILLING:  Put egg yolks, sugar and vanilla into a bowl and beat
  until thick and creamy.  Heat cream carefully until almost boiling.
  
  Combine the two mixtures, beating until smooth, then add the result
  to the top of a double boiler and simmer until it thickens (STIR
  CONSTANTLY).
  
  Dissolve the gelatine in the water and add to the cream mixture,
  stirring well until it is well mixed. Allow this mixture to cool
  completely before adding to the pastry case. Refrigerate until it
  sets.
  
  MAKE TOPPING:  Drain the cherries and reserve about 1 cup of the
  syrup. We don't use commercial canned cherries.  I would suggest a
  "light" syrup. Arrange the pitted cherries artistically over the top
  of the tart.
  
  Put the reserved syrup, gelatine and rum (we usually use cherry
  brandy or kirsch) into a saucepan and heat (stirring) until gelatine
  dissolves.  Cool the liquid and pour over the cherries.  Refrigerate
  until set.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  A thoroughly decadent desert -- This has simply got to be the best
  dessert you'll ever try. My wife has made this one many times. The
  only complaint ever lodged is that there was not enough.
  
  *  Don't be put off by the complexity of the recipe; it is well worth
  the effort.
  
  *  All the egg whites "wasted" can be used in something else, such as
  a Pavlova.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate to hard.
  : Time:  several hours preparation, cooking and cooling.
  : Precision:  measure the ingredients carefully.
  
  : Kevin J.  Maciunas
  : Discipline of Computer Science, Flinders University, South Australia
  : ACSnet: kevin@flinders.oz   ARPA:     kevin%flinders.oz@seismo.arpa
  : UUCP: ..!seismo!munnari!flinders.oz!kevin
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ARTICHOKE-SPINACH CASSEROLE
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetables, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Marinated artichoke
           -hearts, drained
           -(2 small jars); save
           -marinade for dressing
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      2 tb Butter, softened
     20 oz Spinach, cooked, drained
           -and squeezed dry
           -(use 2 packages of thawed
           -frozen spinach, or about
           -1 1/2 lb cooked, fresh
           -spinach)
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Spread artichoke hearts in the bottom
  of a buttered casserole dish, in roughly one layer.  Top with spinach.
  
  Cream together the cream cheese, butter and cheese and spread evenly
  on top. Bake covered for 30 minutes, then uncovered for 10 minutes.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Vegetable casserole with artichokes and spinach -- This is a
  fattening, but good, vegetable dish.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation, 40 minutes baking.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Vicki O'Day
  : Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto CA
  : hplabs!oday
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MUSHROOM SOUP II
 Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      2 lg Onions, chopped
      1 tb French mustard
      4 c  Beef stock
    1/3 lb Ham leg, sliced
     12 oz Evaporated milk
      2 tb Whisky
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  Place the mushrooms, onions, mustard and stock in a saucepan and
  simmer gently for 20 minutes. Save a few mushroom slices for
  decoration later.
  
  Add the remaining ingredients, except for the lemon juice.  Heat
  through, but do not boil.
  
  Garnish with a few slices of mushroom (saved from before) and a
  squeeze of lemon juice.  Serve.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Mushroom soup with whisky -- This is my family's favourite
  mushroom soup recipe.  The recipe originally came from a small
  booklet produced by Carnation.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  10 minutes preparation, 30 minutes cooking.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Michael Oudshoorn
  : Dept.  of Computer Science, University of Adelaide, South Australia
  : mjo@uacomsci.ua.oz
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOPA AZTECA
 Categories: Soup/stew, Tex/mexican, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Cream of tomato soup
           -(use the recipe of
           -your choice,
           -or open a can)
      4 oz Green chilies, diced
           -(or use more or
           -less, to taste)
      2 c  Consomme
    1/4 lb Corn tortilla chips,
           -crumbled
    1/2 lb Monterey Jack cheese,
           -cut into half-inch
           -(or smaller) cubes
 
  Mix soups and bring to a boil.  Fill each soup bowl about 1/3 full
  with crumbled tortilla chips.  Place a layer of cheese cubes on top
  of the chips. Put one or two spoonfuls of diced, drained chilies on
  top of the cheese.
  
  When ready to serve, ladle boiling soup on top of the mixture in the
  soup bowls.  Do not stir.  Serve immediately.
  
  The boiling soup melts the cheese, but it also begins to make the
  chips soggy as soon as you pour it on. If you chop the cheese into
  finer cubes, it will melt more quickly, but if you chop it too fine,
  or if you grate it, then the cheese will form a layer on top of the
  soup instead of remaining as distinct chunks.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Aztec soup:  a simple cheese, tomato and beef soup -- I got this
  recipe from my mother, who got it from a friend in Tucson, Arizona.
  The recipe is extremely simple and extremely quick.  I like to serve
  it with Mexican chef's salad. Serves 4-6.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy.
  : Time:  5 minutes preparation.
  : Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Loretta Guarino Reid
  : DEC Western Software Laboratory, Palo Alto, California, USA
  : guarino@decwrl.dec.com -or- decwrl!guarino
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BOUILLABAISSE, part 1 of 2
 Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------ROUILLE-------------------------------
      6    Garlic cloves
      1 ts Salt
     12 lg Basil leaves
    1/3 c  Pimento, chopped
    1/3 c  Bread crumbs
      1    Egg yolk
      1 c  Olive oil
           Hot pepper sauce

MMMMM----------------------COURT BOUILLION---------------------------
      8 c  Water (more as needed,
           -up to 10 C)
      2 c  White wine, dry
      1    Onion (coarsely chopped)
      1 lg Carrot (cut into
           -large pieces)
      1    Leek
           -(white section only,
           -cut into large pieces)
      1    Celery stalk
      5 lb Fish trimmings (fish
           -frames, heads, tails)

MMMMM-----------------------BOUILLABAISSE----------------------------
      2 sm Lobsters, live
           -(each about 1 1/4 lb)
     36    Mussels
     36 sm Clams, hard-shelled
      2 lb Shrimp (medium-sized)
      3 lb Firm-fleshed fish
           -(sea bass, red snapper,
           -cod, etc.)
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      1    Leek  (white part only,
           -julienned)
      1 c  Carrot, grated
      1 c  Onion, finely chopped
      1 c  Fennel, roughly chopped
      1 ts Sage
      1    Orange peel strip
           -(about 1 x 3 inches)
      1 pn Saffron
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Parsley, roughly chopped
      1 c  White wine, dry
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  MAKE ROUILLE:  In a food processor fitted with the cutting blade,
  puree all ingredients (except the olive oil and hot pepper sauce)
  until finely minced. With the motor running, add the olive oil
  through the feed tube in as thin a continuous stream as possible.
  Stop occasionally to scrape down the sides. Add hot pepper sauce to
  taste. The rouille should be very spicy.
  
  MAKE COURT BOUILLION:  Bring water to boil and add all ingredients.
  Return to boil, then reduce heat to simmer. Skim scum from top while
  simmering.
  
  Simmer for 30 minutes.  Remove all solids and strain through double
  layer of cheesecloth.
  
  MAKE BOUILLABAISSE:  Cook lobsters in boiling water for 15 minutes,
  until bright red.  Remove all meat from tail and claws.  Cut into
  chunks and set aside.  Scrub mussels and clams well to remove sand.
  De-beard mussels by pulling black fibers from shell.
  
  Steam mussels and clams over 1 inch of water for about 10 minutes,
  until shells open.  Discard any unopened mussels or clams.  Remove
  one shell from each mussel and clam, leaving meat in other shell.
  Strain clam/mussel broth through double layer of cheese cloth and
  reserve 3 cups. Shell the shrimp.
  
  In a large skillet, heat olive oil.  Saute onion, leek, carrot,
  fennel, garlic, sage, saffron and orange peel until onions are soft
  and golden.
  
  In a large pot, bring to a boil about 8-10 cups of court bouillon,
  reserved clam/mussel broth and about 2 cups wine.  Add sauteed
  vegetables, bay leaf, parsley and wine and bring to simmer.  Add salt
  and pepper to taste
  
  Cut fish into large chunks.  Add fish and shrimp and simmer 8-10
  minutes. Add lobster, mussels and clams and simmer 2 minutes. Serve
  in soup plates over garlic toast.
  
  : Continued in Part 2
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BOUILLABAISSE, part 2 of 2
 Categories: Soup/stew, Usenet
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           See Part 1
 
  : Continued from Part 1
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Marseille-style fish soup -- A friend and I had been talking about
  the glories of bouillabaisse for the past year and we finally decided
  to use New Year's Eve as an excuse to fish rather than continuing to
  cut bait, ad nauseam.  The following recipes are a combination of
  several derived from old issues of _Gourmet_, Julia Child, the
  "Playboy Gourmet Cookbook," and "gee, that sounds good, let's add it."
  
  *  The accompanying Rouille is a garlic-hot pepper mayonnaise
  condiment traditional to Marseille-style fish soup.  Rouille is
  traditionally made with a mortar and pestle but I prefer to use a
  food processor, it's just too much work otherwise. Pass the rouille
  as a condiment. Usually about 1 T per serving is sufficient, this
  stuff is the essence of garlic and hot pepper.
  
  *  If you can't get fish trimmings for the court bouillon, add
  bottled clam juice and shrimp and lobster shells.
  
  *  To be truly authentic, our bouillabaisse should have included eel,
  but my friend was a bit squeamish about that so we left it out.
  Basically, any combination of shellfish and firm-fleshed fish can be
  used with the more variety the better.  I dislike using crab since it
  flakes so easily and is lost in the broth.  If you can't get live
  lobsters, substitute frozen lobster tails but be careful not to
  overcook.
  
  *  Use saffron threads, rather than saffron powder which tends to be
  adulterated with safflower and not the same thing at all.  Be
  conservative with the saffron, a little goes a long way and can give
  the dish a medicinal taste.
  
  *  We preceded our dinner with herbed leek and prosciutto tartlets
  served with champagne. Dinner included bouillabaisse; a
  hearts-of-palm salad with pimento and greek olives and vinaigrette
  dressing; lots of crusty french bread to soak up the broth; a dry
  white wine (Duckhorn Sauvignon Blanc '84); and my friend's mother's
  sponge cake with whipped cream icing, fresh raspberries and raspberry
  sauce, accompanied by Asti Spumante.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate to hard.
  : Time:  2 hours.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Pamela McGarvey
  : UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, California, USA
  : {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STEAMED CARROT PUDDING
 Categories: Puddings, British isl, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
MMMMM----------------------DRY INGREDIENTS---------------------------
      2 c  Flour, all-purpose,
           -sifted and measured
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 ts Cloves
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder,
           -double-acting

MMMMM---------------------OTHER INGREDIENTS--------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Potatoes (raw),
           -grated, or ground
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 c  Carrots (raw), ground
           -(use medium blade)
  1 1/2 c  Bread crumbs
           -(dry, not toasted)
  1 1/2 c  Crisco (vegetable
           -shortening)
      2 lg Eggs, lightly beaten
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar (light
           -or dark, depends
           -on what you like)
  1 1/2 ts Lemon extract
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Walnuts, finely chopped
           -(black walnuts are
           -wonderful if you can
           -get them)
     15 oz Raisins

MMMMM---------------------SAUCE INGREDIENTS--------------------------
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Brown sugar (I use a
           -mixture of light and dark)
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Lemon extract
    1/8 ts Cornstarch, well-divided
      1 tb Butter
 
  MAKE PUDDING:  Mix the dry ingredients and set them aside.  Grease
  completely three large (25-oz) tin cans, such as the kind used for
  tomato puree.  Do NOT use the plastic-lined variety. Alternatively,
  grease one large steaming mold, with a hole in the center. Or
  improvise.
  
  Add the potatoes.  Mix well.  Then, in turn, add the baking soda, the
  carrots, the bread crumbs and the Crisco, making sure that you mix
  well after adding each ingredient. This matters, so do it! You may
  have to get some help from King Kong to blend adequately after adding
  the shortening.
  
  Add, in sequence, the brown sugar, the beaten egg, the lemon extract
  and the vanilla, mixing well after each addition. Now, add the dry
  ingredients mixture, a bit at a time.  The mixture will be extremely
  thick and very difficult to mix.  Add the walnuts and the raisins.
  Mix them in.  Go ahead. You're strong enough.
  
  Push the mixture into the tins, with each about 3/4 full, or a little
  more. Seal the tins with aluminum foil and use a rubber band to hold
  the foil on (the pudding should not be exposed directly to the
  steam).  Steam 1 1/2 to 2 hours, (until the pudding seems uniform.
  You can't overcook it, so err on the long side, please!) and cool if
  you're not going to serve it right now.
  
  Make the sauce by combining all of the sauce ingredients in a small
  saucepan and heating until it bubbles and all ingredients are
  dissolved. To serve, reheat by steaming for at least 45 minutes, or
  serve out of the original pot.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  An old Welsh steamed carrot pudding -- This is a good steamed
  pudding, despite the list of ingredients that are "good for you".
  The sauce (following the recipe) is not a necessity for good taste,
  only for authenticity, although I LIKE it with the sauce. Some add
  rum to this sauce.  Suit yourself.  I like it both ways.
  
  This is a very old recipe, I gathered it from my grandmother, who
  would have been 101 (sniff) this year, who learned it from her Welsh
  mother, who learned it from her... (in Wales), ergo it's at least
  200+. Given its similarity to some late Medieval puddings, one might
  suspect that its origins are much earlier. I determined the
  quantities listed here by measuring what my grandmother tossed into
  the pot. Yield: makes about 5 pounds.
  
  *  This stuff keeps in the fridge nearly forever (at least a month)
  as long as you don't let it dry out.
  
  *  Decant or spoon out (depends on if you want to be fancy or not) and
  serve with sauce. Then, don't eat for two days to make up for the
  calories.
  
  Difficulty:  moderate (considerable physical work required); Time:  1
  hour preparation, 3 hours steaming;  Precision:  no need to measure.
  
  : Jim Johnston, (ihnp4;allegra;research)!alice!jj
  : AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHU MEI
 Categories: Main dish, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
MMMMM-------------------------DUMPLINGS------------------------------
      2 lb Turkey, ground
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch (cornflour)
  1 1/2 ts Sherry, dry
      3 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Ginger, grated
           -or finely chopped
      6    Green onions, chopped
      6    Garlic cloves,
           -crushed, minced
           -or pressed
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 pk Wonton wrappers
           Peanut oil

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Fish sauce (You may
           -want to dilute this
           -with water, depending
           -on its strength)
      1 c  Vinegar
      1 c  Sugar
      6    Garlic cloves, finely
           -minced or pressed
      1 tb Ginger, finely
           -minced or grated
      1 tb Red pepper, crushed
 
  Make the dipping sauce by mixing together all of its ingredients.
  Store in the refrigerator until you are ready to use it.
  
  Stir together everything but the wrappers and the peanut oil.  Mix
  vigorously by hand until it begins to bind together. (About 1 minute
  or so.)
  
  Place about 1 1/2 - 2 T of filling in the middle of a wonton wrapper.
  Fold the sides up around the meat so that you have a little bag or
  cup.  Press the bottom flat so that the bag doesn't fall over.
  
  Oil racks of the steamer with peanut oil.  Place dumplings in racks.
  Steam for 15 to 20 minutes in covered rack over boiling water.  Serve
  hot with dipping sauce.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Steamed dumplings (meatballs) -- This recipe is an adaptation of
  the one in "The Frugal Gourmet" by Jeff Smith. The bigger the batch,
  the better. There are never leftovers. Yield: makes 35-40.
  
  *  These little gems would probably go just fine with a favorite
  hoisin or chili dipping sauce.
  
  *  The steamer racks I recommend are the Chinese bamboo ones.  You can
  stack them quite nicely (I find that three racks work well) and they
  sit at just the right height above the boiling water in a wok. The
  real advantage is that water will not condense on your food if you
  use a bamboo steamer.
  
  *  The dipping sauce is an adaption of one served at the Phoenix
  Vietnamese restaurant in Saint Paul Minnesota; it was originally
  served with egg rolls, but works splendidly with these dumplings.
  
  *  The original recipe calls for ground pork, but I find ground turkey
  preferable.  The flavor is lighter and the calories far fewer.  Pork
  is fine, though, and even hamburger could be used in a pinch.
  
  : Difficulty:  easy, but tedious.
  : Time:  45 minutes preparation, 15-20 minutes cooking.
  : Precision:  approximate measurement OK.
  
  : Kathy Marschall
  : Submitted for her by David Messer.
  : Lynx Data Systems, St.  Paul, Minnesota USA
  : dave@viper.UUCP    {amdahl,ihnp4,rutgers}!{dayton,meccts}!viper!dave
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RIGO JANCSI, Part 1 of 2
 Categories: Desserts, Hungarian, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      2 tb Butter
           Flour or cocoa
      3 oz Chocolate, unsweetened
    3/4 c  Butter (unsalted),
           -softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs, separated
      1 pn Salt
    1/2 c  Flour, all-purpose
           -(sifted)

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
     10 oz Chocolate (semisweet),
           -chopped or broken
           -into small chunks
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
      4 tb Dark rum
      1 ts Vanilla extract

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      7 oz Chocolate (semisweet),
           -broken or chopped
           -into small chunks
      1 c  Sugar, granulated (fine)
    1/3 c  Water
 
  TO MAKE CAKE:   Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.  With a pastry
  brush or paper towel, coat an 11x17 inch jelly-roll pan with the
  butter.  This will seem like a lot; be very generous.  Sprinkle the
  flour or cocoa over the butter and shake the pan to coat the butter
  fully.  Tap the edge of the pan on a table to knock out the excess
  flour. Melt the chocolate in a double boiler or a bowl over a pan of
  simmering water. Set aside to cool to lukewarm.
  
  Beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until the whites cling to the
  beater. Add about 1/4 cup of the sugar and beat until the whites form
  stiff, unwavering peaks. Cream the butter and the other (about) 1/4
  cup of the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy. Add the
  melted chocolate and beat in the egg yolks one at a time.
  
  With a rubber spatula, stir about 1/3 of the beaten egg whites into
  the chocolate mixture, then pour the chocolate mixture over the rest
  of the whites.  Sprinkle the flour lightly on top.  Gently fold the
  mixture together until no white streaks remain. Pour the batter into
  the prepared pan, spreading it evenly with a rubber spatula. Bake in
  the middle of the oven for 15 to 18 minutes, or until the cake
  shrinks slightly away from the sides of the pan and a knife inserted
  in the middle comes out clean. It will still be very flat. Loosen the
  cake from the pan with a sharp knife around the sides and turn it out
  onto a rack to cool. (Put the rack over the pan and flip the whole
  thing over to keep the cake from breaking.)
  
  TO MAKE FILLING:  In a small, heavy saucepan, combine the cream and
  chocolate and stir over medium heat until the chocolate dissolves.
  Then reduce the heat to very low and simmer, stirring constantly,
  until the mixture thickens to the consistency of a pudding. Pour it
  into a bowl and refrigerate for at least 1 hour.
  
  When the mixture is very cold, pour in the rum and vanilla and beat
  with a whisk or beater until the filling is smooth and creamy and
  forms soft peaks when the beater is lifted.  Do not over-beat or you
  will get butter.  (If this should happen, don't despair; chocolate
  buttercream makes a perfectly fine filling.)
  
  Cut the cake in half to make two layers, each about 8 1/2 inches wide.
  Spread the filling over one layer and set the other layer on top.
  Smooth out the edges with a spatula. If one of the cake layers should
  break, use it on the bottom. Refrigerate on a rack for about 1 hour.
  
  : Continued in Part 2
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RIGO JANCSI, Part 2 of 2
 Categories: Desserts, Hungarian, Usenet
      Yield: 1 batch
 
           See Part 1
 
  : Continued from Part 1
  
  TO MAKE GLAZE:   In a small, heavy saucepan, heat the sugar, water and
  chocolate over medium heat, stirring constantly, until the sugar and
  chocolate are dissolved. Make sure the sugar is fully dissolved or
  you will get a grainy glaze. Cover the pan and let the glaze cool for
  about 20 minutes.
  
  Set a jelly-roll pan on a table with one short edge propped up.  Put
  the rack with the cake on something else so that it is suspended
  level over the pan but offset about 2 inches so that you can reach
  down into the lower pan with a spoon. Hold the pan with the glaze
  about 2 inches over the cake and pour the glaze on the cake. Using a
  large spoon, scoop up the glaze that collects in the jelly-roll pan
  and put it back on the cake. Keep doing this until the glaze begins
  to stop flowing smoothly. You should end up with a thick, even layer
  of glaze on the cake.
  
  Refrigerate the cake until the glaze is firm, 10 to 20 minutes.
  Serve by cutting into 35 small, equal pieces, 5 in each row across
  and 7 in each row down.  For cutting, use a sharp knife that has been
  dipped in warm water and wiped off between slices. Keep refrigerated,
  but for maximum flavor, allow to come to room temperature before
  serving.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Serving these chocolate cream slices will guarantee the success of
  any endeavor.  The name is pronounced, approximately, rrigo yanshi
  (trilled r). This recipe comes from "The Cooking of Vienna's Empire"
  and is, of course, Hungarian.  A friend of mine describes the
  Hungarians as the people who taught the Viennese how to bake. Yield:
  Makes 35.
  
  *  Fine granulated sugar is not the same thing as confectioner's
  sugar. Regular granulated sugar will work ok for the glaze, just make
  sure it is fully dissolved.  You can avoid lots of chopping by using
  chocolate chips; one cup of chips equals about 6 oz. chips.
  
  : Difficulty:  Quite difficult.  For experienced dessert cooks only.
  : Time:  several hours.
  : Precision:  measure carefully.
  
  : Paul Asente
  : Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, USA
  : asente@cascade.stanford.edu
  : decwrl!cascade.stanford.edu!asente
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HERBED CORNBREAD DRESSING, Part 1 of 2
 Categories: Main dish, Tex/mexican, Holiday, Herbs/spice, Usenet
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------CORNBREAD------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Cornmeal, yellow
    1/2 c  Flour, all-purpose
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Baking powder
      1    Egg (lightly beaten)
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Milk
           Vegetable oil

MMMMM------------------------TURKEY BROTH-----------------------------
      1    Turkey neck
           -(skin removed)
           Giblets and gizzard
           -from 1 turkey
           Leaves from 4
           -celery stalks
      1    Celery stalk
      1 sm Onion, quartered
     12 c  Water

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
     12 oz Bread cubes (herbed)
      1 lg Yellow onion,
           -chopped fine
      3    Celery stalks,
           -chopped fine
      3 c  Rice, cooked (cooled
           -uncovered overnight
           -in a shallow dish)
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      2 c  Pecans, roughly chopped
           Butter (or margarine)
           Salt
           Black pepper
           Rubbed sage
           Thyme
 
  MAKE CORNBREAD:  The night before, make the cornbread.  Preheat oven
  to 425 degrees F.
  
  Thinly coat the bottom of a standard Pyrex pie plate, or 9-inch square
  baking pan, with vegetable oil. Put pan in oven while it is
  preheating and you are mixing the cornbread batter.
  
  In a mixing bowl, blend together the cornmeal, flour, salt and baking
  powder. Stir in the egg and about 3 T vegetable oil. Add milk and mix
  thoroughly by hand. The consistency should be a thick, but not
  "doughy," liquid.  It may be necessary to add a little more milk.
  Pour into preheated pan and bake for 30 minutes or until slightly
  brown on top.
  
  Let cool in pan for 30 minutes.  Remove from pan and break up into
  very large chunks in a large mixing bowl. Let stand overnight,
  uncovered. This will ensure that it is dry and stale.
  
  MAKE TURKEY BROTH:  The night before, make the turkey broth.  Bring
  about 12 C of water to a boil in a large pot. Thoroughly rinse turkey
  neck, giblets and gizzard. Add turkey parts, onion, celery leaves and
  celery stalk to water, cover and reduce heat to a low simmer. Simmer
  on very low heat for 2 hours. Strain the broth, cover, cool quickly
  and refrigerate.
  
  : Continued in Part 2
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HERBED CORNBREAD DRESSING, Part 2 of 2
 Categories: Main dish, Tex/mexican, Holiday, Herbs/spice, Usenet
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           See Part 1
 
  : Continued from Part 1
  
  MAKE DRESSING:  30 minutes before you are ready to stuff the turkey,
  make the dressing.
  
  Crumble the stale cornbread in the very largest bowl you can find.
  Add the herbed bread cubes and mix thoroughly by hand.  Add the rice
  and mix thoroughly by hand.
  
  Briefly saute the onions and celery in butter just enough to make the
  vegetables translucent.  Saute the mushrooms in butter (or margarine)
  until all the resulting liquid has evaporated.  Add the sauteed
  onions, celery and mushrooms, and mix thoroughly. Add the pecans and
  mix thoroughly. Season with salt, pepper, sage and thyme to taste.
  
  Bring the turkey broth to the boil and boil for a minute or two to
  make sure it is sterile. If you are going to stuff the turkey, add
  just enough turkey broth to barely moisten the dressing. Taste for
  seasoning and adjust if necessary.
  
  Very loosely stuff the abdominal cavity and breast cavity with
  dressing. Do not pack it in tightly.  It needs room to expand.  You
  are going to be cooking some more dressing in a baking pan beside the
  turkey, so there will be plenty to go around.
  
  Secure neck cavity opening with one or more poultry skewers.  The
  abdominal cavity may be left open or (if your butcher cleaned the
  turkey properly and left a flap of skin) secured with poultry skewers.
  
  Add enough boiling broth to the remaining dressing to moisten it
  uniformly. Do not over-moisten.  The baked dressing should be barely
  moist, not gummy-wet.  14 Spoon dressing into uncoated baking pans.
  Cover with foil/plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to bake.
  
  One half hour before serving dinner, bake dressing, uncovered, at 425
  degrees F. for 30 minutes.
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Southwestern style herbed cornbread turkey stuffing -- This is the
  traditional McGarvey family dressing for Thanksgiving and Christmas
  dinner. It originated with my maternal grandmother in southern
  Virginia and evolved through her moves to Texas, Oklahoma and
  California and further evolved through my military family's moves all
  over the world.  The recipe includes making 1 batch of cornbread and
  1 batch of turkey broth.  Directions are given for both stuffing the
  bird and baking the dressing separately.
  
  *  This recipe makes enough dressing to stuff a 15-pound turkey and 2
  9-inch-square baking pans.
  
  *  Never stuff the turkey until you are ready to roast it.  Cooking
  lore is rife with horror stories of food poisoning resulting from
  turkeys stuffed too early and let sit while wonderful organisms
  develop in the stuffing. Make sure you bring the turkey broth to a
  boil before you use it, just to make sure that nothing is growing in
  it. The stuffing inside a turkey does not reach a high enough
  temperature to kill bacteria while the turkey is roasting, so you
  must be extremely careful with what you put there.
  
  *  I like to use Pepperidge Farm brand herbed bread cubes.
  
  *  I use a huge ceramic bowl (large enough for "rising" a 4-loaf
  recipe of bread dough) in which  to mix the dressing.  If you don't
  have one handy, you can use your kitchen sink. Clean and rinse the
  sink thoroughly, then put in the stopper and use as a mixing bowl. If
  you are going to stuff the turkey, be sure that you don't overmoisten
  the dressing. The stuffing will absorb a lot of moisture from the
  bird, and who wants a turkey with stuffing soup? Also, be sure to not
  over-stuff the turkey: the stuffing will expand during the roasting
  and it needs room to expand.
  
  *  About 12 C of turkey broth is at least double the amount of liquid
  necessary to moisten the dressing.  If you use all of it, you will
  not have a relatively light, dry dressing. The extra broth should be
  used in making turkey gravy or can be the base stock for making
  turkey soup with the carcass. If you're not up to making turkey
  broth, you can substitute chicken broth, but this is a great way to
  use the neck and gizzard.
  
  *  No quantities of the herbs are given because you can make this as
  spicy or as mild as you like. We like ours heavy on the sage and
  thyme.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  several hours, spread over 2 days.
  : Precision:  measure the cornbread ingredients.
  
  : Pamela McGarvey
  : UCLA Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Los Angeles, Calif., USA
  : {ihnp4!sdcrdcf,ucbvax!ucla-cs,hao}!cepu!pam
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: POTSTICKERS, Part 1 of 2
 Categories: Appetizers, Chinese, Usenet
      Yield: 2 dozen
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      2 c  Flour, all-purpose
    1/2 c  Water

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 lb Pork, ground
    1/2 sm Chinese (Napa)
           -cabbage, cored
           -and chopped
      1    Green onion,
           -coarsely chopped
      2    Ginger (fresh),
           -thumb-sized slices,
           -minced
      2    Water chestnuts,
           -chopped
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 pn White pepper
      1 ts Sesame oil
           TO COOK
      5 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Water

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
           Hot chili oil
           Red rice vinegar
           Soy sauce
 
  In a bowl, combine flour and water, mixing to form a ball.  Remove to
  a floured board and knead with your palm for about 3 minutes.  Shape
  into a ball, cover with a damp towel, and let stand for about 10
  minutes.
  
  Make the filling by combining the filling ingredients above.
  Refrigerate until ready to use.
  
  To shape and assemble, knead dough for about 3 minutes.  Roll into a
  cylinder that is about 1 inch in diameter. Cut off the ends, then cut
  into about 24 pieces, each about 3/4-inch wide. With the cut side up,
  press the dough down with your palm to flatten. Use a rolling pin to
  make pancakes about 2 1/2 - 3 inches in diameter. (They get quite
  thin; that's what you want.)
  
  Spoon about 1 tablespoon of filling into the center of each pancake.
  Fold the dough over to make a half circle and pleat the edges firmly
  together.
  
  To pan-fry, heat cast-iron or other heavy-bottom skillet over moderate
  heat. Add about 3 T oil, swirling to coat bottom. (Watch out, it
  sizzles quite a bit. Don't get burned!) When oil is hot, place
  potstickers, seam side up, in skillet and agitate (shake) for 30
  seconds. Pour in water, cover and gently boil over moderate heat for
  7 to 8 minutes. When oil and water start to sizzle, add remaining 2 T
  oil. Tip skillet to distribute oil evenly; watch carefully
  (uncovered) to prevent sticking. When bottoms are brown (usually
  several minutes later), remove from heat and carefully lift out
  potstickers with spatula.
  
  To serve, turn potstickers over (dark side up) and arrange on serving
  platter. Combine chili oil, vinegar and soy sauce in proportions to
  suit your taste and offer sauce for dipping. Alternatively, cut up a
  hot chili pepper into red rice vinegar.
  
  : Continued in Part 2
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: POTSTICKERS, Part 2 of 2
 Categories: Appetizers, Chinese, Usenet
      Yield: 2 dozen
 
           See Part 1
 
  : Continued from Part 1
  
  NOTES:
  
  *  Delicious Northern Chinese snack and hacker's staple -- Hackers on
  both coasts and most places in between love potstickers (though if
  you're from the Right Coast, you probably know them as Peking
  Ravioli, or just ravs. This recipe is based on one found in Chef
  Chu's Distinctive Cuisine of China. Total preparation time is about
  45 minutes. They don't come out as good as the ones from Cho's in
  Mountain View, but if you don't happen to be within 45 minutes of
  Mountain View, they'll do very nicely, thank you. Yield:  Makes about
  2 dozen.
  
  *  You can freeze uncooked potstickers for later use, if you squeeze
  out the water from the cabbage during preparation (in a colander or
  cheesecloth). Freeze potstickers separately on cookie sheets until
  firm, then put them in plastic bags. When rolling out the pancakes,
  leave the centers slightly thicker than the edges. A thicker center
  will hold up better during the browning.
  
  *  If you prefer, steam potstickers for about 12 minutes over boiling
  water instead of pan-frying.  (No self-respecting hacker would be
  caught eating steamed potstickers, though.)
  
  *  These are really not hard to make, and come out quite nicely!
  Following the dough recipe above leads to a fairly dry and floury
  dough; this makes it hard to roll out and pleat. Feel free to add a
  little more water. There are also now commercially available
  potsticker presses that take care of folding and pleating; they're
  cheap and plastic and work rather well.
  
  *  The perfect potsticker is uniformly brown with a thick brown area
  on the bottom (where it sticks to the pot); it seems that achieving
  this only comes with practice. I tend to fry both sides a bit before
  adding the water; this helps. Beware of too much heat; the bottom
  will bubble and crack.  This doesn't taste any different, but doesn't
  look as nice.
  
  *  If you don't cook the whole batch at once, store the potstickers
  so that they don't touch; the dough tends to stick to itself, so the
  potstickers may tear as you remove them.
  
  *  Many restaurants serve Hoy Sin sauce (hoisin) instead of hot sauce.
  
  : Difficulty:  moderate.
  : Time:  45 minutes.
  : Precision:  measure the ingredients.
  
  : Chris Kent
  : DEC Western Research Lab, Palo Alto, California
  : kent@decwrl.DEC.COM    {ihnp4,ucbvax,decvax}!decwrl!kent
  
  : Copyright (C) 1986 USENET Community Trust
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Rice Ruination (John Hartman)
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     14 oz Can condensed milk
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Egg yolks
      2 c  Steamed boiled long-grained
           -white rice
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 oz Square + 2 oz chopped
           -semi-sweet chocolate
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 ts Powdered sugar
 
  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees. Butter a shallow souffle dish.
  
  Combine the condensed milk with the chocolate in a mdm-sized saucepan
  over low heat.  Cook, stirring constantly, until the chocolate has
  melted, 5 minutes.  Gradually add the butter, and stir until melted.
  Remove the pan from the heat.
  
  Whisk the milk into the chocolate mixture.  Beat in the egg yolks and
  2 tsp of the vanilla.  Then stir in the rice. Pour the mixture into
  the prepared souffle dish, and bake 30 minutes.  The middle will be
  slightly loose. Cool on a wire rack. Refrigerate, covered, until well
  chilled.
  
  Before serving, beat the cream in a lg bowl until slightly thickened.
  Add the remaining 1 tsp vanilla and the powdered sugar, and beat
  until stiff. Pile the whipped cream on top of the pudding. Using a
  vegetable peeler, scrape the piece of semi-sweet chocolate over the
  top to make chocolate curls.
  
  Refrigerate until ready to serve.
  
  COURTESY OF THE HOMESTEAD (615)367-4410
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Pudding
 Categories: British isl, Desserts, Puddings
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Eggs
           -OR-
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Raisins
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Hot cooked rice
 
  Ground nutmeg
  
  Heat oven to 325 degrees. Beat eggs in ungreased 1-1/2-quart
  casserole. Stir in sugar, raisins, milk, vanilla, salt and hot rice.
  Sprinkle with nutmeg. Bake uncovered 50 to 60 minutes, stirring
  occasionally, until knife inserted halfway between center and edge
  comes out clean. Serve warm or cold and, if desired, with cream.
  Refrigerate any remaining pudding.
  
  COURTESY OF THE HOMESTEAD (615)367-4410
  
  Source: Betty Crocker's Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grandma's Rice Pudding
 Categories: Desserts, Rice, Puddings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Egg
      1 c  Milk
      1 tb Sugar or honey
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/3 c  Cooked rice
 
  Grandma's Rice Pudding (Susan Barrington)
  
  This is from my grandma and it's the only rice pudding recipe she ever
  used.  Now it's the only rice pudding recipe I ever use!
  
  Nutmeg
  
  Use 1 egg per c of milk and 1 Tbsp sugar or honey per c of milk. Add
  1/2 c raisins per egg.  Stir in 1/2 tsp vanilla.  Add 1/3 c cooked
  rice per c of milk.  Mix well and sprinkle with nutmeg. Set pan in
  hot water. Bake at 325 degrees for 45 - 60 minutes.
  
  This is incredibly easy and ALWAYS turns out!
  
  ****************************************************************
  
  From Marge Clark:
  
  Rice Light cream Raisins Brown sugar
  
  I had forgotten one of my favorite desserts when I was growing up. If
  there was leftover rice, my mother would throw it in the top of the
  double boiler, add some light cream, a double handful of raisins, and
  a scoop of brown sugar, let it heat up all during dinner.
  
  oooooh that was good stuff!
  
  COURTESY OF THE HOMESTEAD (615)367-4410
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glorified Rice Dessert
 Categories: Desserts, Rice, Fruit, Tasteofhome, Puddings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Rice, regular; cooked, cold
      1 c  Pineapple, cubed
      1 c  Marshmallows, miniature
      1 c  Apple, chopped
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Cream, whipping; whipped
           Strawberries, fresh; opt.
 
  Combine all ingredients except whipped cream and strawberries.  Mix
  well; chill thoroughly.  Fold in whipped cream before serving.
  Garnish with strawberries, if desired.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, April, 1974. Typed for you by Nancy
  Coleman.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Heavenly Rice Pudding
 Categories: Puddings, Rice, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Well cooked regular white
           -rice, chilled
      2 c  Canned pineapple chunks,
           -drained
  1 1/2 c  Miniature marshmallows
      1 c  Fresh or frozen raspberries
           -or strawberries
      2 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Icing sugar
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      1 ts Vanilla extract
 
  In large bowl, toss rice, pineapple, and marshmallows.  Chill
  overnight. Whip cream, adding the icing sugar while beating.  Add
  extracts and beat until stiff.  Stir into rice pudding mixture.
  Makes 6-8 servings.
  
  Origin: Adapted from another recipe. Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
  Jan/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Chicken and Pepperoni Gumbo
 Categories: Soup/stew, Cajun/creol, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------MEATS--------------------------------
      2    Smoked chicken breasts
           -OR-
      2    Regular chicken breasts,
           -with 1/4 tsp liquid smoke
      1    12" stick pepperoni, cut
           -diagonally in 1/8" slices

MMMMM-----------------------SPICE MIXTURE----------------------------
    1/4 ts White pepper
    1/4 ts Red pepper
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Dry parsley flakes
    1/2 ts Gumbo file powder (optional)

MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
      2 c  Onion
      2 c  Green pepper
      2 c  Celery
 
  SMOKED CHICKEN and PEPPERONI GUMBO
  
  VEGETABLES: Cut half in larger hunks (say 1/2 inch) and cut rest in
  fine chop (or use food processor).
  
  MEATS: Debone chicken breasts, skin and pull into bite size pieces by
  hand. If you do not have smoked chicken, you may get away with using a
  small amount of liquid smoke.  I would guess no more than 1/4
  teaspoon. Cut pepperoni into moderately thick slices. (say 1/8 inch
  or about twice as thick as presliced pizza pepperoni usually is).
  
  Using cast iron dutch oven, take the large cut onions and singe them
  over medium high heat in the dry pan for about 3-4 minutes, stirring
  constantly. Then add the rest of the vegetables and cook for about 5
  minutes more on medium heat, stirring frequently. Then add spice
  mixture and stir to incorporate. Stir in about 2 tablespoon dry roux.
  Add the broth and the pepperoni slices. Turn heat down to medium low
  and simmer for at least 1/2 hour or until vegetables are tender and
  flavors are merged. About 5 minutes before serving, add the chunks of
  chicken breasts to the mixture. At the same time, add more roux to
  thicken if desired.
  
  Serve in bowl over lots of rice.
  
  For additional smoke flavor, wrap the chicken bones and skin in cheese
  cloth and place in the mixture at the same time as the pepperoni.
  Remove all the bones and all the skin before stirring in the chicken
  pieces. Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  
  Shared by: Dale & Gail Shipp
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Essence
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6 lb (or more) beef and veal
           -bones, sawed into pieces by
           -the butcher (try to have
           -the pieces cut no more than
           -2 to 2-inches long or wide
  3 1/2 lb (to 4 lbs) boneless shin of
           -beef, cut into 1-inch cubes
      2 lg Unpeeled onions, one sliced,
           -the other left whole
      2 lg Carrots, scrubbed and cut up
           -coarsely
           Water as needed
      2    Celery ribs with leaves, cut
           -up
    1/2 ts Dried thyme, crumbled
      1 md Bay leaf
      1    Whole clove
      2    Ripe tomatoes, coarsely
           -chunked
      1    Clove garlic, unpeeled,
           -left whole
      2    Or 3 sprigs parsley
 
  Makes 2 cups (reconstituted, about 8 quarts, or 1 cup of broth per
  Tbsp. of essence.  Refrigerate for weeks or freeze nearly forever.
  
  Preheat the oven to 450 degrees.
  
  In one or two large, shallow roasting pans spread all the bones and
  half of the shin beef, reserving the other half in the refrigerator.
  Add the sliced onion and the cut up carrots.  Put the pan or pans
  into the oven and brown the ingredients for 40 to 50 minutes,
  stirring and turning them from time to time; you want a good brown
  color. Pour off any fat and put the bones, meat, and vegetables into
  a very large stock pot. Pour 2 or 3 cups of water into the roasting
  pan(s), then set over direct heat and stir and scrape to dissolve all
  the brown bits.  Pour the deglazing liquid into the stock pot.  Add
  enough water to cover everything by about 2 inches. Add the celery,
  thyme, bay leaf, the second onion (stuck with a single clove,
  tomatoes, garlic, and parsley.
  
  Bring the liquid to a boil, then adjust the heat so that the pot,
  partially covered, maintain a gentle simmer, with only an occasional
  bubble. Skim off any foam at the beginning and cook everything for 7
  or 8 hours, skimming occasionally (this is to achieve clarity in the
  finished essence). The simmering can be interrupted for several
  hours, or overnight; let the pot sit, uncovered, for up to 8 hours at
  room temperature, then resume cooking when convenient. (Refrigerate
  for longer times or if the weather is warm.)
  
  After you judge all possible flavor has been extracted from the
  solids in the pot, strain them all out, pressing on them with a spoon
  to extract all the juices.  Skim all fat from the strained broth,
  which by now will amount to about 4 or 5 quarts.  Strain the broth
  through a cheesecloth-lined strainer into the washed out pot (or into
  a smaller one) and add the remaining beef, which you have meanwhile
  chopped or ground to the fineness of hamburger.
  
  Resume simmering, skimming off fat and scum about every half hour.
  After cooking the stock with the beef for 1-1/2 hours, strain out the
  meat, pressing it to extract all possible flavor.
  
  Strain the broth through the cheesecloth again a begin the final
  reduction. Resume simmering the stock, cooking the ever-strengthening
  essence gently as long as necessary for it to become a syrupy
  substance that will coat a cool metal spoon; this may take up to 2
  hours.  (For the clearest essence, skim frequently.  However, the
  flavor of the finished product will be fine if you aren't too fussy
  about the skimming; just be sure to skim off any fat that appears.
  
  The essence is finished when it passes the metal-spoon test. Strain it
  through a fine meshed metal strainer into small jars or pots and let
  it cool, uncovered.  Cover it closely and store in the refrigerator,
  or freeze it.  If frozen, scoop out with a hot spoon as needed.
  
  Note:  The exact yield will depend on how much collagen was contained
  in the bones and meat--the more collagen, the sooner the jellying
  stage is reached.  The cooled essence will be firm, almost rubbery,
  and highly concentrated in flavor.  If any surface mold should
  eventually develop, remove it--it's harmless.
  
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Heath Bar Candy
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Sticks Margarine
      1 tb Water
      1 tb White Karo Syrup
      1 c  Slivered Raw
           -Almonds(Blanched)
      5 ea To 6 ea Plain Hershey Bars
 
  Combine all ingredients in a saucepan.  Cook 10 minutes, stirring
  until mixture turns amber. (it may take a little longer than 10
  minutes, be patient)  Pour4 in5 o 10 x14 pan, or small cookie sheet.
  Place the Hershey bars on top of the hot mixture and let them melt.
  Spread the Hershey Bars around to fully cover the top of the candy.
  Let cool and rap pan on countertop to break candy into pieces. Watch
  out, this stuff is addictive.
  
  From: Joe Vavricek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bloomin' Onion
 Categories: Vegetables, Down under
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Sweet onion
      1    Eggs
      1 tb Milk
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Cracker crumbs (crushed)
 
  Select a well-rounded onion. Peel outer skin but leave root intact,
  cutting off any hanging roots.  With ordinary paring knife, core out
  top third of center.  Angle knife for best results.  Divide onion
  into four sections, by making 2 cuts crosswise, beginning at the top
  and cutting toward the root, stopping about 1/2-inch away.  Cut each
  section twice again. Place onion in bowl of enough boiling water to
  cover it and leave for 5 minutes. The sections, or "petals," will
  begin to open.
  
  Remove onion from hot water and immerse in ice water, which will
  further the opening.  Drain well by turning upside down on a paper
  towel.
  
  Put flour into paper bag (season with any seasonings you'd
  like--Cajun, cayenne, plain ol' s&p, etc), add onion and shake gently
  to coat with flour.  Beat egg and milk; roll floured onion in egg.
  Put cracker crumbs in paper bag, add onion, and shake gently to coat.
  Refrigerate 1 hour before deep frying to set the coating.
  
  Heat oil to 375-380 degrees. If oil isn't hot enough, it will be
  greasy and the batter may not stick.  If oil is too hot, outside will
  burn before inside is cooked.  Place onion petal-side DOWN in HOT oil
  or use a wire basket.  Cook until golden brown, 3-5 minutes.
  
  Cooked onion can be kept for a time in a warm oven.  Serve with sauce
  made of Russian dressing and horseradish.
  
  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.50 Posted by Nancy Coleman Fido Cooking
  8/15/94
  
  Rob Stewart's Note:  It's the first time I've seen the "tricks" to
  slicing and "opening" the onion up before frying.  And once I read
  it, I realized my wife and I do the same thing with scallions before
  serving them with tahini sauce.  You simply slice the white end of
  the onion for about two inchies in a criss cross pattern (giving six
  or eight sections) and then you soak it in cold water.  The ends of
  the onion curl back beautifully into a flowerlike design. (8/20/94)
  
  Recipe By     : From "Outback Cafe"
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-29-95 (23:34) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lg Eggs -- at room temperature
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
  1 1/2 c  Cake flour
    3/4 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter -- at room
           Temperature
    3/4 c  Sugar
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Put rack in middle of oven. Butter and flour an
  8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2 1/2-inch loaf pan. In a medium bowl, whisk together
  the eggs and vanilla extract until blended. In a small bowl, sift
  together flour, baking powder and salt. In a large bowl, using an
  electric mixer set on medium-high speed, beat the butter until light.
  Gradually add the sugar, beating until fluffy and ivory colored.
  Gradually beat in egg mixture until well mixed. Reduce speed to low
  and gradually beat in flour mixture, occasionally scraping down the
  sides of the bowl, just until combined. Do not overmix. Transfer
  batter to prepared pan and smooth the top with a rubber spatula. Bake
  until top is deep golden brown and a toothpick inserted into center
  comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Transfer to a rack and let
  cool in pan for 10 minutes. Invert onto rack, turn right-side up and
  let cool completely. Makes 1 loaf cake.
  
  Note:  Cake can be stored in a lock-top plastic bag at room
  temperature for up to 2 days.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:03) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Holiday Eggnog Cheesecake
 Categories: Holiday, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 c  Pecan halves
      1 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    1/4 c  Brown sugar -- firmly
           -packed
      5 tb Unsalted butter -- melted
           -and cooled

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 lb Cream cheese -- at room
           -temperature
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      3 tb Cognac or dark rum
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 ts Ground nutmeg
      4 lg Eggs -- at room temperature
      2 tb Confectioner's sugar --
           -optional
 
  Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350~. Spread
  the pecans on a baking sheet and place in the oven until lightly
  toasted, about 10 minutes. Let cool. Leave oven set at 350~.
  
  In a food processor fitted with the metal blade, combine the toasted
  pecans, graham cracker crumbs and brown sugar; process to grind
  finely. Add the melted butter and process until crumbs begin to stick
  together. With your hand draped with plastic wrap to form a glove,
  press the crumbs firmly onto the bottom and 2 inches up the sides of
  a springform pan 9 inches in diameter and 2 1/2-inches deep. Wrap
  aluminum foil around the outside of the pan. Bake the crust for 10
  minutes until set. Remove from oven and let cool.
  
  To make Filling:  In a large bowl, combine the cream cheese and sugar.
  Using an electric mixer set on medium speed, beat until well blended.
  Beat in the Cognac or rum, vanilla and nutmeg. Add the eggs, one a a
  time, beating after each addition just until combined. Pour the
  filling into the cooled crust. Bake until the center 2 inches still
  quiver slightly when the pan is shaken, about 1 hour. Transfer to a
  rack and let cool. Cover with aluminum foil and refirgerate overnight
  or for up to 3 days.
  
  To serve;  Run a knife around the pan sides to loosen the cake.
  Remove the foil from the pan and release the pan sides. Place
  cheescake on a plate. Using a fine-mesh sieve, sift the
  confectioner's sugar over the top just before serving, if desired.
  Makes 12 servings.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheescakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:04) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Fettuccine With Chicken And Artichoke Hearts~
 Categories: Poultry, Meats, Vegetables, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Skinless, boneless chicken
           Breast halves -- (about
           -12 oz total)
           OR
     12 oz Boneless beef top round
           -steak
      8 oz Pkg dried spinach or
           -plain fettucccine
  6 1/2 oz Jar marinated artichoke
           -hearts
      1    Clove Garlic -- minced
      1 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
      1 md Onion -- chopped (1/2 cup)
      1 ts Dried basil -- crushed
    1/2 ts Dried tarragon -- crushed
      2 tb Finely shredded or grated
           -Parmesan cheese
 
  Rinse chicken and pat dry. Cut into thin bite-size strips. (For beef,
  partially freeze beef. Trim fat from beef. Thinly slice beef across
  the grain into bite-size strips.) Set aside.
  
  Cook pasta according to package directions. Drain: keep warm.
  
  Meanwhile, drain artichoke hearts, reserving marinade. Pour 2 Tblsp
  reserved marinade into a wok or large skillet (add more marinade as
  necessary during cooking.) Heat marinade over medium-high heat. Add
  garlic; stir-fry for 15 seconds. Add walnuts, onion, basil, and
  tarragon; stir-fry about 2 minutes or till onion is crisp-tender.
  Remove walnut mixture from wok.
  
  Add the chicken or beef to the wok or skillet. Stir-fry for 2 to 3
  minutes or till no pink remains in the chicken or till beef is
  desired doneness. Return the walnut mixture to the wok. Stir in
  artichoke hearts. Cook and stir for 1 minute or till heated through.
  
  Arrange the pasta on individual plates or a large platter. Spoon the
  chicken mixture over the pasta. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese. Makes 4
  main-dish servings.
  
  Per serving:  549 calories; 30 g protein; 53 g carbohydrate; 26 g fat
  (3 g saturated); 47 mg cholesterol; 257 mg sodium; 509 mg potassium.
  
  Typed for you by Marjorie Scofield     6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : BH&G Cooking For Today, "Chicken"
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:05) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Frosting
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Cream cheese -- at room
           -temperature
      6 tb Unsalted butter -- at room
           -temperature
  1 1/4 c  Confectioner's sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  In a large bowl, combine the cream cheese and butter. Using an
  electric mixer set on medium-high speed, beat until smooth. Reduce
  the speed to low, add the confectioner's sugar and again beat until
  smooth. Beat in the vanilla extract until well blended.
  
  To store, cover and refrigerate for up to 1 week. Bring to room
  temperature before using. Makes about 2 3/4 cups.
  
  Variations: Almond flavor: Add 1 1/2 teaspoons almond extract with the
  vanilla extract.
  
  Orange flavor:  Add 2 tablespoons undiluted thawed, frozen orange
  juice concentrate and 1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange zest with the
  vanilla extract.
  
  Coconut flavor:  Bring 1 can sweetened cream of coconut to a boil in a
  large, heavy saucepan. Reduce heat to low and simmer without stirring
  for 10 minutes. You should have about 1 cup. Remove from the heat and
  refrigerate for 1 hour until cool, then beat the cooled coconut cream
  into the finished frosting. Add 1 cup toasted sweetened shredded
  coconut and beat until fully combined. This will yield 4 cups
  frosting. For an easier coconut-flavored frosting, beat 1 1/2
  teaspoons imitation coconut extract and the 1 cup toasted coconut
  into the finished plain cream cheese frosting.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:06) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Confectioner's Sugar Icing
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter
      1 tb Water
    1/2 c  Confectioner's sugar
 
  In a small saucepan over medium heat, stir together the butter and
  water until the butter melts. Remove from heat and let stand until
  cool, about 5 minutes. Add the sugar to the butter mixture and whisk
  vigorously until smooth and thickened, about 1 minute. Use within 5
  minutes, or the icing may become too thick to drizzle. If the icing
  does become too thick, rewarm it for 2 to 3 seconds over low heat,
  whisking constantly. Makes a scant 1/2 cup.
  
  Variations: Orange flavor: Use 1 tablespoon undiluted thawed, frozen
  orange juice concentrate in place of the water.
  
  Brown sugar flavor:  Add 1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar to the warm
  butter mixture and stir until the sugar dissloves; let cool, then
  whisk in the confectioner's sugar.
  
  Clove flavor:  Add 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves with the confectioner's
  sugar.
  
  Lime or lemon flavor:  Use 1 tablespoon fresh lime or lemon juice in
  place of the water and add 1/2 teaspoon grated lime or lemon zest
  with the confectioner's sugar.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:06) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lime Angel Food Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Cake flour
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
  1 1/2 c  Egg whites (about 12 large)
           -at room temperature
      2 tb Fresh lime juice
      1 ts Grated lime zest
      1 ts Cream of tartar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Granulated sugar
           Confectioner's sugar icing
           -flavored with -- lime
           -(see recipe)*
 
  *  See Confectioner's Sugar Icing recipe, elsewhere in this database.
  
  NOTE:  An angel food cake is cooled upside-down. You will need either
  a tube pan with legs on the rim or a tube higher than the sides on
  which the pan can be balanced. If your tube pan has neither, then
  place the tube over the neck of a bottle to keep the cake elevated.
  If you like, just before serving, decorate the iced cake with
  pesticide-free edible flowers, such as pansies, nasturtiums or roses.
  
  Preheat oven to 350~ Put rack in center of oven. In a medium bowl,
  sift together flour and confectioner's sugar. Resift the flour
  mixture twice. Set aside.
  
  In a large bowl, using an electric mixer set on medium-high speed,
  beat together the egg whites; lime juice, lime zest, cream of tartar
  and salt until soft peaks form. Gradually add the granulated sugar, 2
  tablespoons at a time, and continue beating until stiff, glossy peaks
  form. Sift one-fourth of the flour mixture over the egg white
  mixture. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the flour mixture into
  the egg white mixture. Repeat the sifting and folding with the
  remaining flour mixture in 3 more batches. Spoon the batter into a
  nonstick or regular tube pan 9 1/2 inches in diameter and 4 inches
  deep. Bake until the cake springs back when lightly touched, about 45
  minutes. Invert the cake in the pan onto a work surface (see note)
  and let cool completely. When cool, run a sharp knife around the pan
  sides to loosen the cake and turn out of the pan. Place right-side up
  on a serving plate. Drizzle the icing over the top, allowing it to
  run over the sides slightly. Let stand until icing sets, about 1
  hour. Serve immediately , or cover with a cake dome and store at room
  temperature for up to 1 day. Makes one 9 1/2-inch cake; serves 8.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:07) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vanilla Buttercream
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Sugar
      4 lg Egg yolks -- at room
           -temperature
      1 tb Water
      1 c  Unsalted butter -- at room
           -temperature
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Cut butter into tablespoon-sized pieces. Set aside. In a medium-sized
  metal bowl, whisk together sugar, egg yolks and water. Set bowl over
  a saucepan of simmering water. Do not allow the bottom of the bowl to
  touch the water. Whisk constantly until mixture registers 170~F on a
  candy thermometer, about 4 minutes.
  
  Remove bowl from over the water. Using an electric mixer set on high
  speed, beat egg mixture until cool and thick, about 5 minutes.
  Gradually add butter, about 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until
  smooth after each addition. Beat in vanilla extract. If buttercream
  appears broken or lumpy, set bowl back over simmering water for a few
  seconds, then beat again until smooth.
  
  To store, cover and refirgerate for up to 2 days. Before using, let
  stand at room temperature until softened. If necessary, rewarm over a
  saucepan of simmering water for a few seconds, then beat until
  smooth. Makes about 2 1/3 cups.
  
  Variations: Coconut flavor: Omit water and whisk in 3 tablespoons
  canned sweetened cream of coconut with the sugar and egg yolks. Then
  add 1 teaspoon imitation coconut extract with the vanilla extract.
  Mix 1/2 cup toasted sweetened shredded coconut into the finished
  buttercream.
  
  Coffee flavor:  Stir in 2 teaspoons instant espresso powder when the
  cooked egg mixture is removed from the heat, then beat as directed.
  
  Orange flavor:  Add 1 tablespoon grated orange zest with the vanilla
  extract.
  
  Vanilla bean flavor:  Cut 1 vanilla bean in half lengthwise and,
  using the tip of a sharp knife, scrape the seeds from the bean into
  the finished buttercream; beat in the seeds to distribute evenly.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:08) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppyseed-Almond Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
    1/3 c  Canola oil
      2 lg Eggs -- at room temperature
      2 tb Poppyseeds
    3/4 ts Almond extract
  1 1/2 c  Cake flour
    3/4 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Sliced almonds
           Confectioner's sugar
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Place rack in middle of oven. Butter and flour
  an 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2 1/2-inch loaf pan.
  
  In a large bowl, whisk together granulated sugar, canola oil, eggs,
  poppyseeds and almond extract until blended. In a medium bowl, sift
  together flour, baking powder and salt. Dividing the flour mixture
  into 3 batches, whisk the flour into the egg mixture alternately with
  the milk, beginning and ending with the flour mixture. Pour the
  batter into the prepared pan. Sprinkle the almonds evenly over the
  top. Bake until top is deep brown and a toothpick inserted into
  center comes out clean, about 1 1/4 hours. Transfer to a rack and let
  cool in the pan for 10 minutes. Invert onto the rack, turn right-side
  up and let cool completely. Using a fine-mesh sieve, sift
  confectioner's sugar evenly over the top just before serving. Makes 1
  loaf cake.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:09) (18)
  (E)Recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jello Fruit Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
  3 1/2 tb . Jello
           Flavor of fruit.
           Baked Pie Shell
  2 1/2 tb . Cornstarch
      1 c  Water
           Whipped Creme
      4 c  Fruit (frozen is alright)
 
  Combine sugar, cornstarch and water in heavy saucepan,  Cook at
  medium heat until thick and fairly clear.  Remove from heat and add
  Jello Mix. Stir until  dissolved.  Stir in fruit, pour in shell and
  chill. Serve with whipped cream
  
  **Use all of a small package of Jello with a little more juice or
  water and fill  2 small crusts.
  
  My notes.......  I mostly use a ready made chocolate graham shell for
  this. Then I set all the berries in the shell so they all stand up.
  I pour the boiled mix over it.  If it doesn't look thick I add more
  cornstarch and cook until it clears.  And you can use any type fruit
  that has a jello flavor to match.
  
  From: Fran Malsbury Shared By: Pat Stockett
  From: Pat Stockett                    Date: 06-28-95 (07:07) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minted Onion Rings
 Categories: Can/preserv, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 qt Vinegar
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Fresh mint leaves, or
    1/4 c  Dried mint leaves
           Few drops of green food
           -color
      4 c  Sliced peeled onions
      4    Pimientos, thinly sliced
 
  Combine vinegar, sugar and mint, tied in clean, thin white cloth, in
  saucepan.  Heat gently 10 minutes; remove from heat.
  
  Stir in food color.  Add onions and pimientos; heat to boiling.
  Remove mint.  Pour into clean, hot jars; adjust lids at once.
  Process in boiling water bath (212 F) five minutes.  Remove jars from
  canner and complete seals unless closures are self-sealing type.
  Makes 4 half pints.
  
  From:  Farm Journal's Freezing & Canning Cookbook Shared by: Pat
  Stockett From: Pat Stockett                    Date: 06-28-95 (06:31)
  (19) (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Taffy Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
  1 1/3 c  Water
    1/2 c  Margarine -- softened
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Graham cracker crumbs
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
  2 1/2 c  Apples (about 3) -- peel &
           -in chunks
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
 
  Heat oven to 350.  Grease and flour 13 x 9 pan.  Mix cake mix, water,
  margarine, eggs, graham cracker crumbs and cinnamon in large bowl on
  low speed, scraping bowl frequently, 30 seconds.  Beat on medium
  speed, scraping bowl occasionally, 2 minutes.  Fold in apples.  Pour
  into pan; sprinkle evenly with brown sugar.  Bake about 38 to 43
  minutes; cool completely.
  
  Recipe By     : Betty Crocker box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 06-29-95 (22:43) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanut Butter & Honey Crunchies
 Categories: Snacks
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      5 c  Multi-grain Cheerios
      1 c  Spanish peanuts
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Banana chips
      1 pk Vanilla pudding mix, not
           Instant (4 serv)
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
 
  Lightly butter jelly roll pan, 15 x 10.  Mix cereal, peanuts, raisins
  and banana chips in large bowl.  Mix pudding mix and honey in 1 quart
  saucepan. Heat to boiling over medium heat, stirring constantly;
  reduce heat. Boil and stir 1 minute; remove from heat.  Stir in
  peanut butter. Pour over cereal mixture; toss until evenly coated.
  Spread in pan. Refrigerate 30 minutes; break into bite-size pieces.
  Store snack in covered container at room temperature or in
  refrigerator.
  
  Recipe By     : Cheerios box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 06-29-95 (22:44) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit & Cereal Brunch Cake
 Categories: Breakfast, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      1 c  Total cereal
      1 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Oil
      1    Egg
      2 sm Bananas -- thinly sliced
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Nuts -- chopped
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Margarine -- softened
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Heat oven to 350.  Mix streusel topping and set aside.  Grease square
  8" pan.  Mix cereal and orange juice in large bowl; let stand about 2
  minutes or until soft.  Mix in oil, egg and bananas.  Stir in
  remaining ingredients.  Pour into pan.  Bake about 45 minutes.
  Sprinkle topping over warm cake.  Set oven control to broil.  Broil
  cake with top about 5" from heat about 1 minute or until bubbly.
  Watch carefully to prevent burning.
  
  Recipe By     : Total box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 06-29-95 (22:44) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Party Layer Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Vanilla cake mix
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Oil
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Lime peel -- grated
      3 dr Green food coloring
    1/2 c  Whipping cream -- whipped
      1 cn Vanilla Funfetti Frosting
           Orange, lemon and lime candy
           Fruit slices
 
  Heat oven to 350.  Grease and flour two 8" round cake pans.  Prepare
  cake mix according to package directions.  Pour half of batter into
  one greased and floured pan.  Add lime peel and food coloring to
  remaining batter. Pour green batter into other greased and floured
  pan.  Bake at 350 for 25 to 35 minutes.  Col 15 minutes; remove from
  pans.  Cool completely.  In small bowl, combine whipped cream and
  frosting; blend well.  To assemble cake, split each layer in half
  horizontally to form 4 layers.  Alternate green and yellow cake
  layers spreading frosting between layers.  Frost top and sides of
  cake with remaining frosting.  Sprinkle top of cake with decorator
  sprinkles.  Decorate as desired with candy fruit slices. Store in
  refrigerator.
  
  Recipe By     : Pillsbury  box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 06-29-95 (22:46) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Zucchini Cake 2
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Fudge cake mix
      1 ts Cinnamon
      3    Eggs
  1 1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 c  Zucchini -- unpeeled &
           -shredded

MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      6 oz Cream cheese -- softened
    1/3 c  Margarine
  3 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ts Milk
    1/4    Nuts -- chopped
 
  Preheat oven to 350.  Grease and flour bundt pan.  Combine cake mix
  and cinnamon in large bowl.  Add egg, water and oil.  Beat at medium
  speed with electric mixer for 2 minutes.  Stir in zucchini.  Pour
  into pan. Bake at 350 for 50 to 60 minutes.  Cool in pan 25 minutes.
  Invert onto serving plate.  Cool completely.  For frosting, combine
  cream cheese and margarine in large bowl.  Beat at medium speed with
  electric mixer until well blended.  Add powdered sugar, vanilla and
  milk.  Beat until smooth and creamy.  Adjust with sugar or milk as
  needed.  Spread on cooled cake. Sprinkle with chopped nuts.
  Refrigerate until ready to serve.
  
  Recipe By     : Duncan Hines box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 06-29-95 (22:46) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesy Chili Dip 2
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     15 oz Chili no beans
      1 lb Velveeta -- cubed
           Green onion -- chopped
 
  Combine chili and cheese in saucepan.  Heat until cheese melts,
  stirring frequently.  Serve hot with chips or vegetable dippers.
  
  Recipe By     : Hormel ad
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 06-29-95 (22:47) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Chili Dip
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     15 oz Chili no beans
      8 oz Cream cheese -- cubed
    1/4 c  Onion -- chopped
      4 oz Green chiles -- chopped
      4 dr Hot pepper sauce
 
  Combine chili, cream cheese, onion, chilies and hot pepper sauce.
  Heat until cheese melts, stirring frequently.  Serve hot with chips
  or vegetable dippers.
  
  Recipe By     : Hormel ad
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 06-29-95 (22:47) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Garlic Dip~
 Categories: Dips/spread, Healthy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Head garlic
      1 c  Part-skim ricotta cheese
    1/4 ts Black pepper
 
  Preheat the oven to 375F. Wrap the garlic in aluminum foil, set on the
  middle oven rack, and roast for one hour. Remove the garlic from the
  oven and cool until easy to handle.
  
  Separate the garlic into cloves. Working over the container of an
  electric blender or food processor, pinch each garlic clove so that
  the roasted flesh slips out. Add the ricotta cheese and pepper to the
  blender and puree by whirling for 10 to 15 seconds. Transfer to a
  small bowl and serve. Makes about 1 1/4 cups.
  
  One tablespoon: Calories: 21; total fat: 1 g; saturated fat: 1 g;
  cholesterol: 4 mg; sodium: 16 mg.
  
  Nancy Vaine
  
  Recipe By     :
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:37) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Chips~
 Categories: Healthy, Potatoes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 lb Sweet potatoes
    1/2 tb Corn oil
 
  1.  Preheat oven to 400 F.  Lightly coat a baking sheet with non-stick
  cooking spray.
  
  2. Slice the sweet potatoes by hand in very thin slices, or use a food
  processor with a 2-millimeter disk.
  
  3. In a large bowl carefully toss the sweet potato slices by hand in
  the oil to coat the chips lightly. Lay the slices in a single layer
  in the prepared baking pan.
  
  4. Bake the chips for 15 minutes.  Turn each piece over with a metal
  spatula and bake for 5 more minutes.  Chips should be dry and slightly
  crisp. If not, bake up to 3 more minutes, checking every minute so the
  chips won't burn. Let cool for 5 minutes before serving.
  
  Yield: Makes 8 servings, about 7 chips each.
  
  Each serving has approximately 37 calories, 0.5 g. protein, 0.9 g.
  total fat (0.7 g. unsaturated fat, 0.1 g. saturated fat). 6.9 g.
  carbohydrates, 0 mg. cholesterol, 0.9 g. fiber, 3 mg. sodium, 8 mg.
  calcium. Exchanges per serving: 1/2 starch.
  
  Source: Fred Towner
  
  Recipe By     :
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:38) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frog Eye Salad (Ramen)
 Categories: Asian, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 pk Oriental ramen noodle
      1 cn Sliced water chestnuts
      1 c  Sunflower seeds
      1 c  Sliced almonds
      1 pk Coleslaw mix or you can cut
           -up your own
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Sugar
 
  Mix together sugar and vinegar, heat in microwave to disolve sugar.
  After this add spice packets out of the two packages of ramen noodles
  to sugar mixture.  Combine rest of ingredients.  You do not cook the
  ramen noodles you just crunch them up in the salad and the moisture
  from the oil and vinegar softens them.
  
  From Natalie Brisco          8/26/94
  
  Recipe By     :
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 07-01-95 (00:44) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Watermelon Daiquri
 Categories: Fruit, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Watermelon --
           -peeled/seeded/cubed
    1/2 c  Rum
    1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
    1/4 c  Orange flavored liqueur
           Ice cubes
 
  Freese watermelon in a shallow pan for at least 6 hrs.  Combine frozen
  watermelon, rum, lime juice, & orange flavored liqueur in cantainer
  of an electric blender; process until smooth stopping once to scrape
  down sides. Add enough ice to bring mix to 5 level cups; process
  until smooth. Repeat procecedure if necessary until mix measures 5
  cups.
  
  From Southern Living Magazine, June 1995 issue.
  
  Lisa Wilson     5/21/95
  
  Recipe By     : Shirley Draper of Winter Park, Fla.
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 07-01-95 (01:28) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Shrimp with Feta
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Greek
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil shredded fresh
           -basil leaves
      2    Onions, thinly sliced
      2    Garlic Cloves, minced
      8    Tomatoes peeled and
           -coarsely Chopped
    1/4 c  Dry White Wine
    1/3 c  Shredded fresh basil or 2
           -ts Dried
    1/4 ts Each salt and pepper
      2 lb Large shrimp shelled and
           -Deveined
    1/2 lb Feta cheese, crumbled
 
  Description:
  
  Flecked with feta and fragrant with basil, this easy shrimp dish will
  also serve 4 as a main course.
  
  Preparation Time: 30 min.                   Cooking Time: 1 hour, 30
  min.
  
  Instructions:
  
  In a large, heavy saucepan, heat olive oil over medium heat.  Cook
  onions and garlic, stirring 2 to 3 minutes or until softened.  Stir
  in tomatoes, wine, basil, salt and pepper.
  
  Bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce to medium-low; simmer,
  covered, stirring occasionally, 1 hour or until slightly thickened.
  
  Add shrimp to sauce; spoon mixture into 8-cup casserole.  Bake,
  uncovered, in 375F oven 15 minutes, strring twice.
  
  Sprinkle feta evenly on top; bake 5 to 10 minutes or until shrimp are
  pink and feta slightly melted.
  
  Sprinkle with basil and ground black pepper.
  
  Source/Author: Homemaker's Recipe Collection of The Year /typo Bob
  Shiells
  
  Nutrition: per:   Serving
                   Calories:   225              Total Fat (g):    10
                Protein (g):                Saturated Fat (g):
                 Sodium (g):                 Cholesterol (mg):
  :          Carbohyrates (g):
  
  Notes:
  
  To peel tomatoes, immerse them in a large saucepan boiling water for
  10 seconds or until skins loosen.  Drain then chill under cold
  running water; remove core and slip off skins.
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate-Malt Frosting
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    1/4 c  Natural-flavored malted-milk
           - powder
      3    Eggs
  1 1/4 c  Semisweet-chocolate chips
    3/4 c  Soft margarine or butter
 
  Blend in medium saucepan the malted-milk powder and eggs. Beat on high
  speed 1 minute. Cook mixture over medium heat, beating on high speed
  for 7 minutes. Remove from heat. Beat in chocolate chips a little at
  a time. Beat in soft margarine or butter until blended. Return to
  heat until butter or margarine is melted. Pour into small bowl.
  Refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour. Beat on high speed until light
  and fluffy, 2-3 mins.
  
  Spread on cooled cake (recipe is for Malted-Milk Cake, but is
  excellent on other cakes, too!)
  Submitted By DOUG DINE   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sparkling Cranberry Blush
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 6 quarts
 
      3 c  Cold water
      2 ea Bottles cranberry JUICE
           -cocktail, chilled
      2 ea (6-oz.) cans thawed lemonade
           -concentrate, undiluted
      2 ea (705-milliliter) bottles
           -brut champagne, chilled
 
  Combine the first 3 ingredients in a punch bowl and stir well.  Add
  chilled champagne and stir gently.  Serve immediately.  (Serving
  size: 3/4 cup).
  
  Recipe source:  COOKING LIGHT magazine, April 1995.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   06-30-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hard Tack (Knackebrod)
 Categories: West europe, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Potato water
      1 pk Yeast
           Flour (enough to make soft
           -sponge)
      1 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Sweet cream
      1    Egg yolk
      1 tb Salt
           Cornmeal
 
  Combine potato water, yeast and flour. Let rise overnight in warm
  place.
  
  Next morning, add the rest of the ingredients, except cornmeal. Knead
  dough down once; let rise. Make into buns, let rise 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
  Roll each bun as thin as possible in cornmeal, using a corrugated
  rolling pin. Bake in a hot oven. Turn frequently. Source:
  Scandinavian Recipes, compiled and published by Julia Peterson
  Tufford (1973) From: Sallie Krebs
  
  Knackebrod I:
  
  From: Jim Krebs                       Date: 19 Feb 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   06-30-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond-Butter Brownies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Almond butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Almond extract
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Cocoa
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Grated coconut
 
       Preheat the oven to 350.  Combine the almond butter and sugar.
  Add the eggs and almond extract: mix well.  In another bowl, combine
  the flour, cocoa, baking powder, and salt.  Add the dry ingredients
  to the wet, and mix well.  Stir in the coconut.  Pour into a greased
  9-inch square baking pan.  Bake for 35 minutes.
  Submitted By MONICA WILLYARD   On   06-28-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vidalia Onion Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Club Crackers
      2 lg Vidalia Onions
      4 ea Eggs
      1    Stick butter
  1 1/2 c  Skim milk
      1 pk Grated sharp chedder cheese
           Parika
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  Spray 9" x 13" dish with cooking spray. Crumble pack of crackers and
  spread ouut in bottom of dish. Melt half of butter and pour over
  crackers. Cut onions into small pieces. Sautee onions in light
  butter. Spread onions evenly over crackers. Add salt and pepper to
  taste. Beat 4 eggs and 1 1/2 cup milk. Pour egg and milk mixture over
  crackers and onion. Top with grated sharp chedder cheese. Sprinkle
  paprika on top. Bake at 350 degrees for 35 - 45 minutes until it sets.
  
  It's so good it will make you cry.
  
  From Roger Martin
  Submitted By ROGER MARTIN   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frito Salad
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1    Head of lettuce, chopped
      1 sm Onion, chopped
 14 1/2 oz Fritos, crushed
      1 lb Cheddar cheese, grated
      1 lg Can of Ranch Style brown
           -beans, rinsed and drained
 
  Mix with 1 small bottle of Catalina salad dressing. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   06-29-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Bacon Salad
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Meats
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Diced cooked chicken
    1/2 c  Diced crisp bacon
    1/2 c  Diced celery
      2    Hard cooked eggs, chopped
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Chili sauce
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Combine first 4 ingredients.  Season to taste with salt and pepper.
  Chill. Mix mayonnaise and chili sauce.  Stir into salad mixture.
  Serve in salad bowls. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   06-29-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Salad
 Categories: Pasta, Salads, Poultry, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Head cabbage finely sliced
           -(bite size)
      2 ea Cooked chicken breasts, cut
           -bite size
      2 ea Packages Top Ramen noodles
           -(w/o flavor packets)
           -broken up
    1/2 c  Sliced almonds
      1 bn Green onions, finely chopped
           Sesame seeds, optional

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb MSG (optional)
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Pepper
    3/4 c  Oil
      7 tb Mild light rice vinegar
 
  In a large bowl combine cabbage, chicken, noodles, almonds, onion and
  sesame seeds. In a small bowl combine garlic, MSG, salt, sugar,
  pepper, oil and vinegar. Mix well. Put dressing in salad about 40
  minutes before serving to soften noodles.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DOROTHY THOMPSON  SUBJ RAMEN NOODLES    On
   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: JAPANESE CABBAGE SALAD (and variations)
 Categories: Salads, Pasta, Japanese, Vegetables
      Yield: 7 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sliced or slivered almonds
           -toasted
      2 tb Sesame seeds toasted
    1/2 ea Head Medium cabbage shredded
     12 ea Ounces Bean sprouts
      2 c  Fresh mushrooms sliced
      2 ea Green onions chopped
    1/4 c  Sunflower seeds
      1 ea 3 oz. package Instant
           -noodles, broken up
    1/2 ea Package Chow mein noodles

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
           Seasoning from noodles
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
           2-4 tablespoons Soy sauce
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Granulated sugar
           Monosodium glutamate
           -(optional)
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
  Put almonds and sesame seeds in single layer in pan. Toast in 350
  degrees F oven for about 5 minutes (watch carefully) until golden.
  Remove from oven. Set aside. Put shredded cabbage and bean sprouts
  into large bowl. Add mushrooms, onions and sunflower seeds. Add
  toasted almonds and sesame seeds. Combine broken noodles and chow
  mein noodles in small bowl. Set aside. DRESSING Empty seasoning
  packet from noodles into small bowl. Add oil, lesser amount of soy
  sauce, vinegar and sugar. Add more soy sauce to taste.  It will
  depend on quantity of cabbage. You will probably need full amount.
  Stir in salt and pepper. Put in container with cover. Can be made
  ahead.  Before serving shake dressing.  Pour over cabbage mixture.
  Toss, sprinkle dry noodles over top followed by chow mein noodles.
  VARIATIONS: JAPANESE SHRIMP SALAD Add 2 cups canned or fresh cooked
  shrimp to cabbage mixture before tossing. Sliced cucumber and sliced
  radish may be added - about 1/2 cup of each. ORIENTAL CHICKEN SALAD
  Add 2 cups cooked chicken cubed or cut in strips to cabbage mixture
  before tossing. Sliced cucumbers and sliced radish may be added -
  about 1/2 cup of each.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DOROTHY THOMPSON  SUBJ RAMEN NOODLES    On
   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ramen Chicken Salad
 Categories: Poultry, Salads, Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Shredded cabbage
      1 bn Green onions chopped
      1 lb Seasoned diced chicken
      2 oz Sliced almonds
      2 ea Packages chicken ramen
           -(save seasoning packets
           -for dressing)
      1 ea Ounce toasted sesame seeds

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Oil
      1 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 ea Packets seasoning from ramen
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
           Salt, pepper, sugar to taste
 
  Mix cabbage, green onions, chicken, almonds, ramen,  and sesame seeds.
  together, set aside. In a small bowl mix oil, vinegar, seasoning
  packets from ramen, soy sauce, salt, pepper and sugar to taste. Pour
  over salad mixture and toss well.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DOROTHY THOMPSON  SUBJ RAMEN NOODLES    On
   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RAMEN NOODLE SALAD
 Categories: Salads, Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  WATER
      1 ea (13 OZ) PKG. CHICKEN
           -FLAVORED RAMEN NOODLES
      1 ts BUTTER
    1/4 c  FINELY CHOPPED CELERY
    1/4 c  SHREDDED CARROTS
    1/4 c  THINLY SLICED GREEN ONIONS
      1 tb FINELY CHOPPED GREEN PEPPER
      1 ts LEMON JUICE
      1 ts SOY SAUCE
      2 tb MAYONNAISE
 
  Bring water to a boil.  Crumble noodles, and add to water; stir in
  seasoning packet.  Return to a boil, and cook 2 minutes, stirring
  often. Drain. Combine noodles and butter, stirring until butter
  melts. Add celery and remaining  ingredients, stirring gently to
  coat.  Cover and chill 3 to 4 hours.  Yield 2 servings.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DOROTHY THOMPSON  SUBJ RAMEN NOODLES    On
   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GOOSEBERRY PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  3 1/2 c  Gooseberries
      2 tb Tapioca - minute
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Orange - grated rind of
      2 tb Butter - melted
 
  Mix together and let stand 15 minutes. Line 9-inch pastry tin with
  pastry, add fruit mixture, cover, slit in several spots to allow
  steam to escape. Bake in hot oven, 450 F. 15 minutes and decrease to
  moderate, 350 F. and bake 30 minutes longer.
  
  Source: Mrs. Pearl Tidrice, Tri-County Grange, Tuscarawas County, OH
  Submitted By RICHARD HOLLIS   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Finger Paint
 Categories: Kids
      Yield: 3 cups
 
      1    Envelope Unflavored Gelatin
      1 c  Water, cold, divided
    1/2 c  Liquid Laundry Starch
      2 c  Water, hot
    1/2 c  Soap Flakes
           Food Coloring
 
  Dissolve gelatin in 1/4 cup of cold water, set aside.
  
  Combine laundry starch and remaining cold water in a saucepan.  Add
  the hot water and cook over medium heat, strirring constantly (use a
  non-metal spoon), until mixture reaches a full boil and thickens
  completely.
  
  Remove from heat, blend in dissolved gelatin.  Stir in soap until
  completely dissolved.
  
  Transfer mixture to covered containers, dividing as desired.  Add food
  coloring to mixture in each container.  Use only small amounts of food
  coloring, as too much additional liquid will make the paint runny.
  
  Store in covered containers.
  
  VARIATON:  Substitute 1 small package of sugar-free gelatin (any
  flavor) for the unflavored gelatin and omit food coloring.
  Submitted By JILL PETERSEN   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocoa Krispies Cereal Treats
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter
      1    10-ounce package
           -marshmallows or
      4 c  Miniature marshmallows
      6 c  Kellogg's Cocoa Krispies
           -cereal
 
  Melt margarine in *large* saucepan over low heat. Add marshmallows
  and stir until completely melted. Cook over low heat for 3 minutes
  longer, stirring constantly. Remove from heat.
  
  Add Cocoa Krispies cereal. Stir until well coated.
  
  Using buttered spatula or waxed paper, press mixture evenly into
  buttered 13 x 9 x 2-inch pan. Cut into 2-inch squares when cool.
  MAKES 24 SQUARES
  
  NOTE: Best results are obtained when using fresh marshmallows.
  
  VARIATIONS: To make thicker squares, press warm mixture into buttered
  9 x 9 x 2-inch pan.
  
  MARSHMALLOW CREME TREATS
  
  About 2 cups marshmallow creme may be substituted for marshmallows.
  Add to melted margarine and stir until well blended. Cook over low
  heat for about 5 minutes longer, stirring constantly. Remove from
  heat. Proceed as directed in step 2 above.
  
  PEANUT TREATS: Add 1 cup salted cocktail peanuts with cereal.
  
  PEANUT BUTTER TREATS: Stir 1/4 cup peanut butter into marshmallow
  mixture just before adding cereal. RAISIN TREATS: Add 1 cup seedless
  raisins with cereal.
  
  From: David Pileggi                   Date: 24 Jun 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salad In A Hurry
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Carton of Cool Whip
      1 cn Cherry pie filling
      1 c  Pineapple chunks, drained
      1 c  Miniature marshmallows
      3    Bananas, sliced
      2    Apples, peeled, cored and
           -diced
 
  Mix all ingredients together in a dish.  Chill and serve. Randy Rigg
  
  From: Randy Rigg                      Date: 26 Feb 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRIED ONION MUMS OR POM POMS
 Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      5    Onion, small to med
      4 c  Flour
      5 ts Baking powder
      2 tb Paprika
      1 ts Garlic powder
      2 ts Greek seasoning (I'm not
           -quite sure exactly what
           -this is --sw)
      1 ts Salt; or to taste
           Pepper, black; to taste
      3    Egg
  1 1/2 c  Milk
           Oil; for deep frying
 
    Cut off and discard the top half-inch of the onions.  Peel them but
  do not cut off the root end.  Place each onion, root end up, on a
  cutting board.  With a sharp, pointed knife, make vertical cuts all
  around the onion about a quarter inch apart.
  
    Start the cut a quarter-inch from the root for small onions or a
  half-inch from the root for very large ones.  Make sure the knife
  goes into the center of the onion.
  
    Place all the onions in a large bowl of cold water, add ice cubes,
  cover and refrigerate several hours or overnight.  The onions will
  open up like mums. Drain upside-down when ready to proceed.  In a
  large bowl, mix together thoroughly the flour, baking powder and
  spices. In another bowl, beat together the eggs and milk.
  
    Dip the onions one by one into the egg mixture, opening the petals
  with your fingers; let the excess drip off, and place in flour. Work
  the flour mixture into the center gently with fingertips.  Shake off
  excess flour and repeat egg dip and flouring, shaking off the excess
  thoroughly.
  
    Half-fill a deep fryer or large, deep, heavy pot with oil. (The
  author of this recipe used the bottom of her pressure cooker -- a
  small electric fryer will NOT do.)
  
    Heat the oil to 360F or until a small piece of dry bread turns deep
  gold in 15 seconds.  Fry the onions without crowding them -- one at a
  time for large ones -- keeping them submerged with a spatula or by
  placing the frying basket on top of them.  Plunge them in root end up
  and turn them over once.
  
    To serve at once, fry large onions for about six or seven minutes,
  small ones for five minutes, or until deep gold.  Drain upside-down
  on paper towels; then invert on a serving plate.  Keep warm in a low
  oven while frying the others.  Remove the centers of large onions
  with a very sharp knife.  Small onions may be left whole or the
  center can be scooped out with a melon-ball cutter.  If serving the
  next day, fry the onions until pale gold; do not fry completely.  Let
  cool. When ready to serve, reheat the oil to 380F and fry the onions
  just long enough to heat and brown, about 15 seconds.  Drain and
  serve. To get the same taste without making mums, simply cut onions
  ver- tically to make "petals" or crosswise and separate into rings.
  This can be done ahead and the petals or rings kept in ice water.
  Egg, flour and fry as above. Submitted By SAM WARING   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Bubbles
 Categories: Kids
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Joy or Dawn dishwashing
           -liquid
      6 c  Water
    3/4 c  Light corn syrup
 
  Mix ingredients in bucket.  Let settle 3-4 hours.  Makes super big
  bubbles.
  
  From Madison's preschool handout Posted by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On    6-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fats And Oils For Low Salt Diets
 Categories: Information
      Yield: 1 packet
 
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
 
  The following is a list of recommended oils and fats for a low salt
  diet. Safflower oil Sunflower oil Corn oil Soybean oil Sesame seed
  oil Canola Oil Olive Oil Polyunsaturated Margarine Unsalted oil based
  salad dressing (using the recommended oils)
  
  Not recommended as they contained mostly saturated fats.
  
  Butter Vegetable shortening Vegetable fat Bacon, Salt Pork Suet, Lard
  Chicken Fat Meat Fat Coconut Oil Palm Kernel Oil Palm Oil
  
  For Occasional use only.
  
  Peanut Oil.
  
  These are the things to use in most of your recipes when you cook and
  to look for when you shop.
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On    7-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Best-Ever Lemon Meringue Pie
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      6 tb Cornstarch
      2 c  Water
      3 ea Egg Yolks
    1/3 c  Lemon Juice
  1 1/2 ts Lemon Extract
      2 ts Vunegar
      3 tb Butter
      1 ea Baked deep 9-inch pie shell

MMMMM--------------------NEVER-FAIL MERINGUE-------------------------
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Cold Water
    1/2 c  Boiling Water
      3 ea Egg Whites
      6 tb Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 pn Salt
 
  BEST-EVER LEMON MERINGUE PIE
  
  ....................................................................
  "Have I got a treat for you! It is the world's best (and easiest to
  make) lemon meringue pie. No, this not a recipe my grandmother gave
  me. It is one I got about 15 years ago from a cab driver in New
  York." --- Ann Landers
  ...................................................................
  
  Mix sugar and cornstarch in top of double boiler. Add water. Combine
  egg yolks and lemon juice; beat until well mixed. Add to sugar
  mixture. Cook over boiling water until thick, about 25 minutes. Add
  lemon extract, vinegar and butter; stir throughly. Pour mixture into
  pie shell and cool.
  
  FOR MERINGUE, blend cornstarch and cold water in saucepan. Add boiling
  water and cook, stirring until clear and thickened. Let stand until
  completely cold.
  
  With electric beater at high speed, beat egg whites until foamy.
  Gradually add sugar; beat until stiff but not dry. Turn mixer to low
  speed. Add vanilla and salt. Gradually beat in cornstarch mixture.
  Turn mixer to high and beat well. Spread meringue over cooled pie
  filling.
  
  Bake in preheated 350 F oven 10 minutes or until top is lightly
  browned.
  
  Makes 8 servings.
  
  From An Article: Ann Landers: Cabbie Gave Me This Lemon Meringue Pie
  Recipe, in Toronto Star 1 July, 1995.
  
  Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Concorde (Chocolate Meringue Cake w/ Choc. Moussse)
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, French
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    135 g  (4.5 oz) icing sugar
     90 ml (6 tbsp) cocoa powder
      5    Egg whites
    150 g  (5 0z) caster sugar
           X Few drops vanilla essence

MMMMM----------------------CHOCOLATE MOUSSE---------------------------
    100 g  (3.5 oz) plain chocolate,
           -cut into small pieces
     60 g  (2 oz) butter
     60 g  (2 oz) sugar
      2    Egg yolks
      4    Egg whites
 
  Concorde (Chocolate Meringue Cake Filled with Chocolate Mousse)
  
  [SERVES 6]
  
  A Parisian pastry chef is said to have invented this cake in the early
  1970s. His idea? Use chocolate mousse instead of a pastry cream or
  buttercream as a filling and use chocolate meringue instead of a
  Genoese or sponge cake to create a layered dessert. The crisp
  meringue and the velvety mousse proved to be perfect companions, and
  today his creation is a classic that can be found in pastry shops
  throughout the country.
  
  CHOCOLATE MERINGUE:
  
  X Icing sugar for dusting X Butter, softened, for baking sheet
  
  EQUIPMENT: 2 piping bags, large plain icing tube, medium plain icing
  tube
  
  Preheat the oven to 110 C (225 F) mark 1/4.
  
  Lightly Brush 2 baking sheets with the softened butter and cover with
  baking parchment. Cut an oval pattern, about 20 cm (8 inches) long
  and 12.5 cm (5 inchcs) wide, from a thin piece of cardboard. Use the
  pattern to crace 2 ovals on 1 baking sheet and 1 oval on the second.
  Leave one-half of the second baking sheet free for piping strips of
  meringue.
  
  PREPARE THE CHOCOLATE MERINGUE:
  
  Sift together the icing sugar and the cocoa powder. Beat the eg
  whites with a whisk or electric mixer until soft peaks form.
  Gradually beat in the caster sugar and then continue beating until
  stiff peaks form and the meringue is glossy and smooth. Fold in the
  icing sugar, cocoa and vanilla with a metal spoon. Fit a piping bag
  with the large plain tube and fill with the meringue. Pipe the
  meringue to fill each traced oval, srarting in the centres and
  working outwards in a spiral. Fit another piping bag with the Medium
  plain tube and fill with the remaining meringue. Pipe long thin
  scrips on the second baking sheet, leaving about 2.5 cm (1 inch) in
  between each. Bake for at least 2 hours, until the meringue is crisp
  and thoroughly dry. Cool and carefully peel off the paper, then trim
  the ovals to equal sizes.
  
  PREPARE THE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE:
  
  Bring 5-7.5 cm (2-3 inches) of water to simmering point in a saucepan.
  Combine the chocolate, butter and 45 ml (3 tbsp) of the sugar in a
  heatproof bowl and set it over the simmering water Leave to stand,
  without stirring, until the chocolate has completely melted. Remove
  from the heat and stir in the egg yolks with a spoon. Heat the egg
  whites with a whisk or electric mixer until stiff peaks form.
  Gradually beat in the remaining sugar and continue beating until
  stiff peaks form and the meringue is glossy and smooth. Whisk about
  one-third of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture. Gently fold
  this into the remaining egg whites with a metal spoon.
  
  ASSEMBLE THE CAKE:
  
  Spread a thin layer of moussse over 1 meringue oval with a palette
  knife. Place a second oval on top and spread it with a thin layer of
  mousse. Top with the third meringue and spread the top and sides of
  the cake with the remaining mousse. Carefully cut the meringue strips
  into 2.5 cm (1 inch) lengths with a serrated knife and use them to
  decorate the top and sides of the cake. Sift icing sugar over the
  top. Cover and refrigerate for 2 hours before serving.
  
  copyright (c) 1991 Le Cordon Blue">
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gratin de Fruits au Marasquin (Fruit Gratin w/ Maraschino
 Categories: Fruit, French
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Mangoes
      6    Figs
     30 ml (2 tbsp) maraschino liqueur

MMMMM--------------------------SABAYON-------------------------------
      2    Egg yolks
     60 g  (2 oz) icing sugar
      1    OO ml (3.5 fl oz) dry white
           -wine
     30 ml (2 tbsp) maraschino liqueur
 
  Gratin de Fruits au Marasquin (Fruit Gratin with Maraschino Liqueur)
  
  [SERVES 6]
  
  Fruit gratins are now as common in France as their vegetable-based
  ancestors. Typically fresh fruit is layered into individual dishes or
  arranged on plates covered with a foamy sabayon, and browned under the
  grill. A perfect gratin demands careful attention; the sabayon cannot
  be made in advance and the gratin must be watched to make sure it
  doesn't burn under the grill.
  
  EQUIPMENT: 6 large, ovenproof plates
  
  Peel and cut the mangoes into thin slices. Peel the figs and cut each
  lengthwise into 6 slices. Combine the fruit in a shallow container and
  sprinkle with the liqueur. Let the fruit macerate at room temperature
  for at least 20 minutes.
  
  PREPARE THE SABAYON:
  
  Bring 5-7.5 cm (2-3 inches) of water to simmering point in a large
  saucepan. Combine the egg yolks, sugar, wine and liqueur in a large,
  heatproof bowl and beat with a whisk or electric mixer until pale
  yellow and foamy. Set the bowl over the simmering water (the bottom
  of the bowl must not touch the water) and continue beating until the
  mixture becomes thick and creamy and increases in volume and the
  whisk or beater leaves a clear trail on the bottom of the bowl. Test
  the temperature of the sabayon occasionally with a finger: if it
  feels hotter than just tepid - the temperature should not exceed 27 C
  (80 F) - remove from the heat and beat until slightly cooled. Then
  return to the heat and finish cooking.
  
  TO SERVE:
  
  Preheat the grill. Arrange the mango slices in a fan shape in the
  centre of each of the 6 ovenproof plates. Surround with the fig
  sections. Cover the fruit with the sabayon and place under the grill
  for a few minutes until lightly browned. Watch carefully because the
  sabayon will colour quickly. Serve hot.
  
  SABAYON:
  
  The sauce you need is based on a foamy mixture called a sabayon (a
  cousin of the light, egg-based Italian dessert zabaglione). A
  sabayonis made by beating egg yolks with a liquid over simmering
  water until thickened and increased in volume (the liquid can be
  water, but champagne or wine is often used for a savoury sabayon.)
  The sabayon must not get too hot during cooking or it will become
  grainy: if it begins to feel warmer than body temperature, remove the
  pan briefly from the heat, beating continuously, until the mixture
  cools. Then return the pan to the heat and continue cooking. Sabayon
  may be served warm or cold; a cold sabayon is beaten off the heat
  until cooled. Sabayons may be sweet or savoury. They may be served
  simply as asauce, often flavoured with an alcohol, or they may form
  the base of some mousse mixtures. They may also be used for sweet or
  savoury gratins. Cornflour is sometimes added for stability.
  
  copyright (c) 1991 Le Cordon Blue">
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Strawberry Pie 2
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Stick or 1/2 packet of our
           -pie crust mix
      6 c  Strawberries (about 1 1/2
           -qts.)
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Water
           -Red food color
      1 pk (3 oz.) cream cheese,
           -softened
 
  Prepare 9" Baked Pie Shell as directed on package. Cool. Mash enough
  berries to measure 1 cup. Stir together sugar and cornstarch.
  Gradually stir in water and crushed berries. Cook over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and boils. Boil and stir
  1 minute. Stir in few drops red food color; cool. Beat cream cheese
  until smooth; spread on bottom of cooled baked pie shell. Fill shell
  with remaining berries; pour berry mixture over top. Chill at least 3
  hours or until set.
  
  Fresh Raspberry Pie: Substitute 6 cups raspberries for the
  strawberries.
  
  Fresh Peach Pie: Substitute 5 cups sliced peaches (7 medium) for the
  strawberries. To prevent peaches from darkening, use a granulated
  ascorbic acid mixture as directed on package.
  
  From: Sandi Cutright                  Date: 18 May 94 From: Gail Shipp
  Date: 15 Mar 95
  Submitted By FLORENCE THOMPSON   On   06-30-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Le Manceau (Almond cream tart)
 Categories: Pastry, Pie/tart, Nuts/grains, French
      Yield: 1 22_cm_tart
 
    350 g  Pate sucree
      1 pn Flour
     30 g  Butter; for greasing

MMMMM----------------------CREME PATISSIERE---------------------------
      2    Eggs
     50 g  Sugar
     75 g  Sifted flour
    250 ml Milk
     65 ml Rum

MMMMM----------------------CREME D'AMANDES---------------------------
    125 g  Butter
    125 g  Icing sugar
    125 g  Ground almonds
      2    Eggs

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
     75 g  Apricot jam; sieved
      2 tb Rum
      4 tb Icing sugar

MMMMM---------------------------QUELLE--------------------------------
           -- French Country Cooking
           -- The Roux Brothers
           -- PAPERMAC 1992
           -- ISBN 0-333-57670-5
           -- Typed by Rene Gagnaux
 
  (for: 1 flan ring, about 22cm/9in diameter, 4cm/1 1/2in deep)
  
  This rich and creamy tart from Le Mans should be eaten as soon as
  possible after cooking while it is still very fresh: it is very
  important to get the cooking just right to produce a soft, creamy
  tart!
  
  The pastry: on a lightly floured marble or wooden surface, roll out
  the pastry to a thickness of 2-3 mm. Butter the flan ring, place it
  on the baking sheet and line with the pastry. Refrigerate for 30
  minutes.
  
  The creme patissiere: put the egg yolks and about one-third of the
  sugar in a bowl and whisk until they are pale and leave a slight
  trail when you lift up the whisk. Sift in the flour and mix well. Put
  the milk and the remaining sugar in a saucepan and bring to the boil.
  As soon as the milk begins to bubble, pour about one-third on to the
  egg mixture, stirring continuously. Pour the mixture back into the
  pan, and cook very gently, stirring continuously. Boil gently for 2
  minutes until the custard thicken, then pour it into a bowl. Flake a
  little butter or sprinkle some icing sugar over the surface to
  prevent a skin forming as the custard cools. When it is nearly cold,
  stir in the rum.
  
  The creme d'amandes: cream the butter in a food processor until very
  soft. Still beating, work in the mixture of icing sugar and ground
  almonds, sifted together, then add the eggs one at a time, beating
  well between each addition, until the mixture is smooth and light.
  
  Preheat the oven to 180 oC (350 oF).
  
  The filling: before the creme patissiere becomes completely cold,
  beat in the almond cream with a wire whisk. Pour the mixture into the
  pastry case.
  
  Bake the tart for 50 minutes, taking care not to left it brown to
  much. Leave in the flan ring on the baking sheet for 10 minutes, then
  remove the ring and slide the tart on to a cooling rack.
  
  Increase the oven temperature to 250 oC (500 oF).
  
  Glazing the tart: when the tart is completely cold, heat the apricot
  jam in a saucepan, brush it thinly and evenly over the tart and leave
  to set. Meanwhile mix the rum and icing sugar to make a transparent,
  slightly syrupy glaze. Brush this over the apricot glaze and place
  the tart in the very hot oven for 30 seconds to harden the glaze.
  Submitted By SIMON KEEBLE   On   06-30-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jelly Fish & Cucumber
 Categories: Appetizers, Chinese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    500 g  Dried jellyfish  (1 lb)
     50 g  Dried shrimps  (2 oz)
      1    Cucumber
 
  Seasonings: Good quality soy sauce, salt, sugar, vinegar, sesame oil.
  
  Instructions:
  
  Soak jellyfish in cold water for 2 days prior making the dish. Change
  water at least once a day. Soak dried shrimps in boiling water until
  soft (about 20 minutes). Shred jellyfish into very thin strips. Wash
  and peel the cucumber. Shred it finely and add a little salt to
  taste. Shred the shrimps or leave them whole if they're very small.
  Put them all together in a bowl and mix well. Make the seasoning
  sauce in a seperate bowl. Use small quanities of vinegar, sugar, soy
  sauce and sesame oil according to taste. Mix well and pour over the
  jellyfish and cucumber. Chill for an hour and serve as an appetizer.
  
  Recipe from China Radio International.
  Submitted By DOUG DINE   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Roses
 Categories: Chinese, Appetizers, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    375 g  Ground meat  (3/4 lb)
      3    Pieces of edible seaweed
      3    Salted yorks
    1/2 ts Salt  (1)
    1/8 ts White pepper  (1)
      3 tb Corn starch  (1)
      1 tb White sesame oil  (1)
      1 tb Soy sauce  (1)
      1 ts Chopped scallion  (1)
 
  Instructions:
  
  1. Mix ground meat together with ingredients (1). Knead and roll into
  12
     meat balls. Quarter each salted yolk.
  2. Quarter each piece of edible seaweed. Wrap the meat balls into
  flower
     shapes with the pieces of edible seaweed. Put 1/4 yolk on each
     rose-like meat ball. Put on a plate. Cover with plastic wrap.
     Microwave 8 minutes on high. Serve.
  
  Recipe from the Voice of Free China.
  Submitted By DOUG DINE   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chili-Orange Fish Fillets with Banana
 Categories: Main dish, Fish, Seafood, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Fish fillets
           -- red snapper, turbo, cod
           -or other fillets
      2    Firm, ripe bananas
           -- halved lengthwise,
           -- then crosswise
      4 tb Fresh orange juice
      2 tb Grated orange zest
      2 tb Minced red onion
      2 ts Minced, seeded fresh chilies
      4    Fresh lime wedges
 
  Preheat the broiler.  Arrange the fish fillets and bananas (cut side
  up) on a lightly greased broiler pan.
  
  In a small bowl, combine half the orange juice with the orange zest,
  red onion, chilies, and a pinch each of salt and pepper.  Spread
  evenly over fish and bananas.
  
  Broil 4 inches from the heat source, without turning, until fish and
  bananas are well browned and the center of the thickest part of the
  fish is opaque, about 10 minutes.
  
  Transfer to a serving platter.  Sprinkle with the remaining orange
  juice. Garnish with lime wedges.
  
  Approximate nutritional analysis: 210 calories per serving; 30 g
  protein; 18 g carbohydrate; 2 g fat (10% of calories); 2 g fiber; 53
  mg cholesterol; 246 mg sodium; 71 % of the Daily Value for vitamin
  B12, 46% for B6, 41% for vitamin C.
  
  * Source: American Health - June 1994 * Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias Submitted By JOELL ABBOTT   On   06-26-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Soup with grated horseradish
 Categories: Soup/stew, Tasteofhome, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
      4 qt Water
      1    Beef roast - 2 pounds
      2 lg Onions
      1    Horseradish root
           Salt to taste
           Crusty French bread

MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS------------------------------
 
  Brown roast in large heavy stock pot. Brown chopped onion after the
  roast. Cover roast and onions with 4 quarts of water. Boil until
  roast is tender. Take off heat and cool long enough so that you can
  shred the meat by hand.
  
  Return the shredded meat to the stock pot and season soup to taste.
  Slice bread on diagonal and float on stock. Take cleaned fresh
  horseradish and grate it into the soup. Taste occasionally until you
  have got it as you want it (at least 1/4 C of grated horseradish).
  
  Stand back while you are grating soup into boiling stock. The fumes
  will make your eyes burn and water and your sinuses will instantly
  clear. Submitted By JOYCE MONSCHEIN   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mississippi Mud Cake - Peters
 Categories: Chocolate, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------FROM FRED PETERS---------------------------
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter
      4 ea Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 c  Chopped pecans

MMMMM---------------------------ICING--------------------------------
      1 lb Powdered sugar
    1/3 c  Cocoa
      1 c  Butter, melted
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Pecans, chopped
      2 tb Milk
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Butter a 9x13-inch pan.  Cut a piece of
  waxed paper to fit the bottom of the pan and butter it. With an
  electric mixer, beat the butter and sugar together until light and
  fluffy. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition. Add
  the flour, cocoa, salt, vanilla and nuts, and beat again. Turn the
  batter into the pan and bake for 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from the
  oven and cool on a rack. When cool, remove cake from pan and peel off
  the waxed paper. Icing: Sift the sugar and cocoa together.  Beat in
  the melted butter, vanilla, pecans, and milk. When smooth, spread the
  icing over the cake. This cake is cracked and dry-looking, like
  Mississippi mud in the hot, dry summer. NEW SOUTHERN COOKING by
  Nathalie Dupree
  
  Submitted By JOYCE MONSCHEIN   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Ivy Inn's Scallop and Shrimp Casserole
 Categories: Main dish, Casseroles, Seafood, Rice
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1 lb Shrimp, med, cleaned
      1 lb Scallops
    1/2 c  Wine, white
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      1 cn Cream of Celery soup
      1 c  Sour cream
      8 oz Cheddar cheese, grated
           Salt and pepper to taste
           WILD RICE
           -follow package directions
 
  In skillet place butter and saute' shrimp and scallops until shrimp
  turn pink and begin to curl.  Add wine, reduce heat to medium and
  cook for two minutes.  Remove shrimp and scallops and set aside.
  Reduce heat to low; combine remaining ingredients, except rice, and
  add to skillet. Stir until well blended.  Add shrimp and scallops and
  heat through. Serve over prepared wild rice.
  
  Source: Virginia's Historic Resturants - Dawn O'Brien - John F. Blair,
  Publisher, Winston-Salem, NC 1984 - ISBN: 0-89587-037-1
  
  Posted: 06/95 - Grant Ames
  Submitted By GRANT AMES   On    6-30-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Dough 2
 Categories: Pizza, Breads
      Yield: 2 pizzas, 8"
 
      2 pk Instant dry yeast
    1/2 c  Milk, at room temperature
    3/4 c  Warm water
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Unbleached flour
 
  Dissolve the yeast in a mixture of the warm (125 degrees) water and
  room temperature milk in a large bowl.
  
  Mix in the flour and salt to make a soft dough.
  
  Knead (10 minutes by hand - 4 minutes in a heavy duty mixer with a
  dough hook)
  
  Oil a clean bowl.
  
  Set the dough in the bowl.
  
  Cover tightly with plastic wrap.
  
  Let rise until doubled in bulk (about 2 hours in a warm place).
  
  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees.
  
  Divide the dough into two equal parts (one per 8" pizza).
  
  Roll each part out to an 8" diameter.
  
  Top with the desired sauce and toppings.
  
  Bake for 10 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: My Favorite Pizza Sauce
 Categories: Pizza, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      2    Garlic cloves, finely
           -chopped
      1 cn (28 oz.) Tomatoes, crushed
           -or whole
      1 cn (8 oz.) Tomato sauce
      1 tb Basil
      1 tb Oregano
      1 tb Salt
    1/4 ts Crushed red pepper
 
  Heat 3 tablespoons olive oil in 3-quart saucepan.  Add onions and
  saute until transparent and golden brown, about 5 minutes.  Add
  garlic and saute 2 to 3 minutes longer.  Add tomatoes and the rest of
  the ingredients. Bring to boil; reduce heat and simmer for at least
  40 minutes.  If using crushed tomatoes (concentrated or with puree),
  water will have to be added to prevent the sauce from becoming too
  thick.  Normally about 1/2 of the tomato can of water will be enough.
  Add more or less as you prefer.
  
  Makes enough sauce to cover 6 medium pizzas.
  
  Recipe complements of Arthur Cloninger, Huntington, WV.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swiss Cheese Fondue
 Categories: Main dish, Cheese/eggs, Appetizers, Alcohol, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Garlic clove, peeled and cut
           -in half
     10 oz Swiss emmental cheese,
           -grated
     10 oz Swiss gruyere cheese, grated
      4 ts Cornstarch
      2 c  Dry white wine
      1 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
  1 1/4 oz Kirschwasser (clear cherry
           -brandy)
      1 pn Of ground nutmeg
           Pepper to taste
 
  French or Italian bread, cut into 1 inch cubes, and/or raw vegetable
  such as mushrooms, cherry tomatoes, cauliflower florets, broccoli
  florets, celery sticks and carrots sticks for dipping.
  
  Rub the inside of a large heavy saucepot with the garlic clove.
  Discard the garlic.  Combine the cheeses and cornstarch in the
  saucepot.  Stir in the wine and lemon juice.  Heat the cheese mixture
  over high heat, stirring constantly, until the cheese is melted and
  creamy.  Stir in the Kirschwasser, nutmeg and pepper.  Cook for 1
  minute longer. Transfer the fondue to a heated fondue pot.  Adjust
  the flame so that the fondue bubbles lightly.  Serve with the bread
  and/or vegetables. Makes 12-24 appetizer servings, or 4 main course
  servings.
  
  Origin: Cooking with Regis and Kathie Lee Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
  Nov/94.
  
  Chipped from the bottom of Sharon's Igloo   ^^oo^^
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fondue Bourguignonne
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Chili sauce
      1 md Onion, chopped (about 1/2
           -cup)
      3 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Salad oil
      2 ts Vinegar
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      1 ts Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Red pepper sauce
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Several hours before serving, trim fat from 2 lbs. beef tenderloin or
  boneless beef sirloin and cut meat into bite-size pieces (1-inch
  cubes). Cover meat and refrigerate.  Prepare sauce.
  
  Sauce: Hot 'N Spicy
  
  Mix all ingredients in small saucepan.  Heat to boiling; reduce heat
  and simmer 5 minutes.  Serve warm or cold.
  
  About 15 minutes before serving, mound pieces of meat on bed of greens
  (lettuce).  Pour vegetable oil in fondue pot to depth of 1 to 1
  1/2-inches. Transfer oil to saucepan and heat until bread cube browns
  in 1 minute. Carefully pour hot oil back into the fondue pot; ignite
  sterno.  Use long handled fork to spear cube of meat, dip into hot
  oil and cook until meat is crusty on the outside.  Since the long
  handled fork is very hot by this time, meat should be dipped in sauce
  and eaten with a second fork.
  
  More Sauces: Horseradish Sauce
  
  1 c.   dairy sour cream 2 Tab. horseradish 1/2 tea. lemon juice 1/4
  tea. worcestershire sauce 1/8 tea. salt
  
  Mix all ingredients thoroughly; refrigerate until serving time.
  
  For a dessert fondue:
  
  Chocolate Fondue
  
  12 oz.  semi-sweet chocolate chips (sweet can be used) 1/4 c. light
  cream 1 2 Tab. Orange flavored liqueur or brandy (2 tea. instant
  coffee can be substituted)
  
  In a heavy saucepan, melt chocolate and cram over low heat, stirring
  constantly until smooth.  Remove from heat; stir in liqueur.  Pour
  into fondue pot.  Guest select choice of dipper and place on dessert
  plate. Then with fork, dip one into chocolate mixture.
  
  6 8 servings
  
  Dippers: Apple wedges Cubes of angel food cake strips of bananas
  mandarin orange segments maraschino cherries marshmallows pineapple
  chunks fresh strawberries
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Fondue In Ginger Broth
 Categories: Poultry, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Of chicken stock
    2/3 c  White wine or 1/4 cup (50
           -ml) cider of 150 ml of rice
           -vinegar
      2    Lemon slices
      2 lg Cloves garlic, minced
      2 tb Minced gingerroot
      2 ts Granulated sugar
           * Chicken and Vegetable
           -Tray:
      1 lb Boneless, skinless chicken
           -breasts
    1/2 bn Broccoli
      1 sm Yellow summer squash or
           -zucchini
      2 c  Torn Swiss chard or romaine
           -lettuce
      1    Sweet red pepper or green
           -pepper
    1/4 lb Mushrooms
 
  * Fondue Cooking Stock: - Hot Chili Sauce (recipe follows) - Garlic
  Sauce (recipe follows)
  
  Fondue Cooking Stock:  In fondue pot, electric skillet or electric
  wok, combine chicken stock, white wine, lemon slices, garlic, ginger
  and sugar. Just before serving, heat to simmer.
  
  Chicken and Vegetable Tray: Cut chicken into 3/4 inch pieces; place on
  serving platter.  Cut broccoli, summer squash, Swiss chard and sweet
  pepper into bite-sized pieces; arrange along with mushrooms on a
  separate platter.
  
  Using long fondue forks, spear chicken or vegetables; dip into
  simmering fondue broth to cook.  Cook chicken pieces until no longer
  pink inside, and vegetables until tender-crisp.  Serve with Hot
  Chilli Sauce and Garlic Sauce for dipping.
  
  Garlic Sauce:
  
  (For a variation, substitute chopped fresh basil or coriander to
  taste for the garlic and reduce the parsley to 1 tbsp.)
  
  * 1/2 cup light sour cream or low-fat yogurt or a mixture of both.
  * 2 cloves garlic, minced.
  * 1/4 cup of chopped fresh parsley.
  
  In a small bowl combine sour cream, garlic and parsley.
  
  Hot Chili Sauce:
  
  * 1/3 cup water
  * 2 tbsp. lemon juice or lime juice
  * 1 tbsp low-sodium soy sauce
  * 1 tsp granulated sugar
  * 1/4 tsp hot pepper flakes
  
  In a small bowl, combine water, lemon or lime juice, soy sauce, sugar
  and hot pepper flakes.
  
  From The Canadian Heart and Stroke Foundation's *Lighthearted Everyday
  Cooking*
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Chocolate 2
 Categories: Chocolate, Beverages
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 pt Milk
      3 oz Imported chocolate (milk
           Chocolate or semi-sweet)
 
  Pour 1/4 cup of the milk into a small, thick-bottomed pot.  Break the
  chocolate into small bits and add to the milk in the pot.  Over very
  low heat, let the chocolate melt, then pour in the rest of the milk,
  bit by bit, whisking well with each addition.  When the chocolate is
  melted and the milk faintly steaming, remove from the heat, beat
  vigorously with a whisk until frothy, and serve.
  
  Variations: A small amount of chocolate-based liqueur, such as
  Cheri-Suisse, Vandermint, or Droste Bittersweet is liked by some.  Of
  course, unsweetened baking chocolate can be used instead.  Use the
  same proportion: 1 1/2 oz. chocolate per cup of milk and sweeten to
  taste. From: Rich Harper                     Date: 07-04-95 (01:28)
  (14) (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scalloped Tomatoes
 Categories: Tomatoes, Casseroles, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 sl Toast (buttered and
           -sprinkled with garlic salt)
      1 ts Grated onion
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 cn (2-1/2 cups) tomatoes
      2 tb Butter
 
  Butter toast with garlic salt and then cut into cubes.  Add onion,
  salt, pepper to tomatoes.  Place a layer of 1/2 the bread cubes in a
  greased 1 quart casserole, add tomatoes, top with remaining bread
  cubes.  Pour 2 tbsp melted butter over top.  Bake in 375F oven for
  20-30 minutes. Makes 6 servings.
  
  Origin:  My Mom, Shirley Whittaker. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Jan/95.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-03-95 (11:07) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Venison Lasagna
 Categories: Game, Casseroles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Spicy venison sausage
      2 ts Onion salt
      2 ts Garlic salt
      1 cn 16 oz. whole tomatoes
      1 cn 15 oz. tomato sauce
      3 tb Dried parsley flakes
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Basil leaves
      2 ts Salt
      1 cn 8 oz. mushroom pieces
      6    Uncooked lasagna noodles
      1 pk 16 oz. pkg ricotta cheese
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
  1 1/2 ts Oregano leaves
      2 c  Chredded mozzarella cheese
 
  Cook and stir sausage, onion and garlic salt in 10-inch skillet until
  sausage is light brown.  Drain.  Add tomatoes (with liquid), tomato
  sauce, 2 tablespoons parsley, sugar, basil, 1/2 teaspoon salt and
  mushrooms. Heat to boil, stirring occasionally.  Reduce heat.  Simmer
  uncovered until mixture is consistency of thick spaghetti sauce,
  about 1 hour.  Cook noodles as directed on package.  Reserve 1/2 cup
  of the sauce mixture. Mix ricotta cheese, 1/4 cup Parmesan, 1
  tablespoon parsley, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and oregano.  Layer 1/2 each
  of the noodles, remaining sauce mixture, mozzarella cheese and
  ricotta cheese mixture in ungreased oblong pan, 10X6X2 inches.
  Repeat above process until you have 2 layers. Spoon reserve sauce on
  top, top with mozzarella and sprinkle with Parmesan. Cook uncovered
  at 350F for 45 minutes.  Let stand 15 minutes. From: Sharon Stevens
                  Date: 07-03-95 (11:14) (14) (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Venison Pot Roast
 Categories: Game, Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Venison roast
    1/4 c  Salt pork, cubed
      2 tb Butter
      6    Carrots
      6    Onions
      6    Potatoes
      1 ts Parsley - fresh, chopped
      1    Celery stalk - chopped
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 c  Tart fruit juice or cider
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Hot water
      3 tb Butter
 
  Lard the roast well by inserting cubes of salt pork into small cuts
  in the roast.  Heat butter in a Dutch oven or deep casserole and
  brown the meat on all sides.  Add hot water, fruit juice, celery,
  parsley, thyme, salt and pepper.  Cover and simmer gently for 3 hours
  on top of the stove or in the oven at 350 degrees until meat is
  tender.  If liquid gets low, add water. About one hour before meal is
  to be served, add peeled potatoes, carrots and onions.  Add a little
  additional salt for vegetables. When vegetables are tender, remove
  them and the meat to a platter and keep hot. Thicken liquid with 2-3
  Tablespoons flour.
  
  Origin: FidoNet Home Cooking Echo Shared by: Rich Harper
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-03-95 (11:15) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old Man Kelsey's Deer Jerky
 Categories: Can/preserv, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2    To 2 lbs lean boneless deer
           -meat, partially frozen
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Hickory smoked salt
    1/4 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
      1 sm Bottle liquid smoke
 
  Trim all fat from the meat.  Slice the meat as thinly as possible.
  In a bowl combine the remaining ingredients.  Stir until dissolved.
  Add the meat and mix well.  Cover and refrigerate overnight.  Shake
  the excess liquid from the meat and arrange in a shallow pan or
  cookie sheet.  Dry the meat in a 150F or 200F oven until dry and
  brown, a minimum of 8 hours. Cool, remove from the pan, and store in
  a glass jar.
  
  **NOTE**  If spicy hot jerky is desired, you may sprinkle coarsely
  ground black pepper over the meat just before placing it in the oven.
  
  Source: Aunt Bee's Mayberry Cookbook, (Tim Thompson - Manvel, Texas)
  From: Sharon Stevens, 1992.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-03-95 (11:15) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Venison Sausage
 Categories: Sausage, Game, Tasteofhome, Meats
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      5    Feet medium hog casings
      5 lb Cubed prefrozen venison
      3 lb Lean prefrozen pork, cubed
      2 lb Pork fat, cubed
      5 tb Salt
      1 ts Thyme
      2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Fine grind black pepper
      2 ts Finely minced garlic
      1 tb Paprika
      1 ts Cayenne
      1 c  Brandy
    1/2 ts Ascorbic acid
      1 ts Saltpeter
 
  MARINADE 1/2 c Red wine vinegar 1/2 c Red wine 2 ts Salt 1 sm Onion,
  sliced 1/2 c  Thinly sliced carrot 1 cl Garlic, finely minced 1 Bay
  leaf 1/4 c Chopped heart of celery 1 tb Whole black peppercorns
  
  Thaw venison. Prepare marinade and pour over cubes of meat. Marinate
  in the refrigerator for 24 hours. Drain, discard marinade, and grinf
  through the fine disk. Grind pork and fat separately and mix with
  venison. Add remaining ingredients and mix well. Place in the
  refrigerator overnight. Prepare casings, stuff and tie off into 4-5"
  links. Hang to dry for 48 hours. Cold smoke (70-90) for ten hours.
  Hang again for at least two weeks before sampling.
  
  Source: Home Sausage Making by Charles G. Reavis ISBN: 0-88266-477-8
  Typed by Carolyn Shaw 12-94.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-03-95 (11:15) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Szechwan Beef and Snow Peas Stir-fry
 Categories: Main dish, Wok, Meats, Chinese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Tender beef steak
      2 tb Cornstarch; divided
      3 tb Kikkoman Soy Sauce; divided
      1 tb Dry sherry
      1    Garlic clove; minced
    1/4 ts Crushed red pepper
           -OR up to double this amount
      2 tb Vegetable oil; divided
      6 oz Fresh snow peas; trimmed
      1 md Onion; chunked
      1 md Tomato; chunked
 
  Slice beef across grain into thin strips.  Combine 1 Tbsp. _each_
  cornstarch and soy sauce, sherry and garlic; stir in beef.  Let stand
  15 minutes.  Meanwhile, blend remaining 1 Tbsp. cornstarch, 2 Tbsp.
  soy sauce, red pepper and 3/4 cup water; set aside. Heat 1 Tbsp. oil
  in hot wok or large skillet over high heat.  Add beef and stir-fry 1
  minute; remove. Heat remaining 1 Tbsp. oil in same pan.  Add snow
  peas and onion; stir-fry 3 minutes.  Add beef, soy sauce mixture and
  tomato. Cook, stirring, until sauce boils and thickens and tomato is
  heated through.
  
  Source: The Art of Stir-Frying Made Easy with Kikkoman Sauces
  Reprinted with the permission of Kikkoman International Inc.
  Electronic format courtesy of Karen Mintzias
  Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   06-29-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef with Vegetables Cantonese (Cook's of Crocus Hill)+
 Categories: Chinese, Meats, Vegetables, Wok
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------MARINADE FOR BEEF--------------------------
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Sherry
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch

MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
    1/2 lb Asparagus cut diagonally
           -in 2" lengths
    1/2 lb Snow peas,(fresh preferably)
           -may be cut in two
    1/2 lb Mushrooms (oriental) use as
           -much as you like, soak in
           -water and chop before using
    1/2 c  Green beans, blanched, then
           -cooled under running water
      1 c  Broccoli (leave flowerettes
           -whole) cut stem in 1" long
           -pieces, then cut into
           -sticks
      4    Scallions, slice on diagonal
           -into 1/2" lengths, using
           -green portion also
      2 sl Ginger root (thin) about the
           -size of a quarter

MMMMM-------------------------THICKENER------------------------------
      1 c  Chicken stock/broth with
      2 tb Cornstarch

MMMMM--------------------BEEF (MARINADE ABOVE-------------------------
      1 lb Beef sirloin, sliced across
           -the grain, cut into 2"
           -pieces(freezing partially
           -first makes it easier to
           -slice uniformly)
 
  Have meat and vegetables cut, sauce ingredients set out and everything
  ready before you start to cook!
  
  Combine the soy sauce, sherry, sugar, cornstarch, add them with the
  sliced beef and stir so that the pieces of beef are coated with the
  marinade.
  
  Heat the fry pan or wok. When the pan is hot, pour in 2 tb. of oil,
  when the oil is hot, saute the ginger root in the oil for 2 minutes.
  Remove and discard the ginger root. Add the beef to the oil in the
  pan and stir till it is lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Remove and
  keep hot.
  
  Add 2 tb. of oil to the wok. When the oil is hot, add the mushrooms.
  stir fry for 2 minutes. Push the mushrooms to the side of the wok,
  Add another tb. of oil and when it is hot, add vegies that take
  longer to cook first. Then add the easier to digest when raw vegies
  (such as scallions) Stir fry for another minute. Pour in the stock
  and cornstarch mixture and continue cooking until clear and bubbly.
  Return beef to the pan and heat through. serve immediately.
  
  Stir frying is a kind of free-wheeling cooking. It all goes together
  very fast and practice will help you develop your "feel" for the
  cooking. Vegetables should be crispy tender and the meat should be
  tender and juicy.
  
  Class attended and recipe typed up by Mary Riemerman
  Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   06-29-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: James Beard Summer Sandwich Ideas+
 Categories: Sandwich
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
 
  James Beard had to say about sandwiches that they, like so many
  ordinary foods, are often treated carelessly. They can make wonderful
  outdoor meals if prepared properly with the best ingredients. The
  major consideration is the bread. Don't use cottony, thick sliced
  white type that is so widely sold. The best sandwiches are made of
  very thin slices of firm bread and plenty of tasty filling. If you
  can't get bread of good, firm texture at your grocery store, search
  the neighborhood for those long thin loaves of French bread. Or find
  a bakery where you can get good homemade style bread, or rye bread.
  
  Have your butter soft so it will spread evenly. Sometimes a little
  flavor added to the butter makes the sandwiches tastier. Try adding a
  little garlic to the butter for the meat fillings, a little lemon and
  parsley for the fish fillings, mustard-prepared or dry for ham or
  chicken, and curry whenever you like it.
  
  Spread the bread well with the butter and top it with plenty of
  filling. cover with another slice of bread, press down dirmly, and
  either cut in two pieces or leave whole. Wrap each sandwich
  seperately in foil or waxed paper. Put them in the refrigerator to
  chill. This always makes them better.
  
  If the fillings you have selected tends to make the bread soggy,
  carry them in separate containers and assemble your sandwiches on the
  site of your picnic.
  
  Here are some suggestions for fillings:
  
  * Thinly sliced Italian or Bermuda onions sprinkled with salt * Thinly
  sliced cucumber with mayonnaise * Thin slices of chicken with
  mayonnaise * Thin slices of rare roast beef with mustard butter *
  Thin slices of old fashioned baked ham (not the boiled ham sold
    in most groceries) with mustard or chutney * Club sandwich: Toast
  slices of bread. On the bottom slice spread butter,
    then mayonnaise, then place a piece of lettuce, top it with a sliced
    tomato, sliced chicken, and cooked crisp bacon. Add more mayonnaise
  and
    top with the other slice of toast. Press together and wrap in foil *
  Chopped cooked chicken livers and chopped egg, mixed together,
  seasoned
    with onion, and moistened with chicken fat of mayonnaise * Chopped
  shrimp, seasoned with a bit of onion and parsley and moistened
    with mayonnaise * Lobster tail thinly sliced, seasoned with salt and
  pepper and spread
    with mayonnaise * Chopped, egg, pickle, and mayonnaise * Head
  cheese * Cream cheese, smoked salmon, and onion * Corned beef, sliced
  pickle, and onion * Cold roast lamb with pickle relish and curry
  butter * cold sliced steak with mustard * Ham and Swiss cheese *
  Tongue and mustard * Tongue, cheese, and horseradish
  
  MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
  Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   06-30-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three Cheese Lasagne Rolls
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables, Low cal/fat, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      9    Lasagne noodles, uncooked
     20 oz Pkg froz spinach, thaw
           Vegetable cooking spray
    1/2 c  Ea chopped mushrooms&onions
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      3 tb Dry white vermouth
    1/2 c  Parmesan and part-skim mozza
    1/2 c  Lite ricotta cheese
    1/2 c  Froz egg substitute, thaw
      1 ts Basil
    1/8 ts Pepper
           Chunky Tomato Sauce
    1/4 c  +2 T. fine chop red pepper
    1/4 c  + 2 T. shredded carrot
      2 cl Garlic, minced
    3/4 ts Basil
    1/4 ts Marjoram
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  No salt tomato sauce
      3 tb Water
 
  Cook noodles. Drain;set aside. Drain spinach and squeeze;set aside.
  Coat large pan with Pam;place on med heat until hot. Add onions,
  mushrooms,and vermouth;saute til tender.Transfer to bowl;add spinach,
  Parmesan and next 5 ingredients. Spread spinach mixture evenly over
  lasagna noodles leaving 1/4" border around edges. Roll each noodle
  up. Arrange rolls. seam side down, in an 11x7x2" baking dish coated
  with Pam. Cover and bake at 350 for 30 minutes or until thoroughly
  heated. To serve cut rolls in half. Spoon 1/4 c sauce on plate and
  place 3 rolls on each plate. Chunky Tomato Sauce: Coat skillet with
  Pam; place over med heat til hot. Add pepper and next 5 ingredients;
  saute 5 minutes. Stir in tomato sauce and water; bring to a boil.
  Cover, reduce heat, and simmer 5 minutes more or til thickened.
  Yields 1 1/2 c. per serving = 280 cal 5.5 g fat
  
  t
  Submitted By CAROL VERGE   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hearty Bean Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Dried navy beans
      1    Stalk celery, cut in chunks
      1 sm Onion, quartered
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Veg oil
      2 ts Butter
      2 c  Thinly sliced onion
    1/4 ts Hot pepper flakes
     28 oz Can plum tomatoes
      1    Green pepper, seed and slice
      1 ts Dried oregano
           Salt
    1/3 lb Lean ham, diced
           Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Soak beans overnight or by quick soak method; drain. In heavy
  saucepan, cover beans with 4 cups cold water. Add celery, onion, and
  bay leaf; bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer, covered, for about 1
  1/4 hours or until beans are tender. Drain beans and discard celery,
  onion and bay leaf; set aside. In same heavy saucepan, heat oil and
  butter over medium heat. Cook sliced onion and pepper flakes,
  stirring occasionally, for about 10 minutes or until onions are
  softened and golden but not browned. Stir in tomatoes, breaking up
  with wooden spoon; add beans, green pepper, oregano, and salt to
  taste. Bring to boil; add diced ham. Cover and reduce heat; simmer,
  stirring occasionally, for 30 minutes. Garnish with chopped parsley.
  per serving = 150 cal  4.1 g fat
  Submitted By CAROL VERGE   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dnepro Chicken Stew
 Categories: Ukrainian, Poultry, East europe, Soup/stew
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 ea Chicken large
    1/4 lb Salt pork cubed
      2 ea Onions coarsely chopped
      1 tb Salt
      2 tb Butter
      2 ea Carrots shredded
      8 ea Potatos cubed
      1 qt Buttermilk
      1 ea Garlic clove minced
    1/2 ts Dill freshly snipped &
           - chopped
 
  Cut chicken into serving pieces. Place in a large, heavy pot and
  cover with water. Bring to a boil, lower heat, and simmer for 2.
  Remove from the heat, cool, and remove meat from the bones. Skim the
  fat from the top of the liquid when has cooled. Chop the chicken meat
  into coarse chunks and return to the liquid. Fry the salt pork with
  the onion & garlic until the pork is browned. Place the pork, pork
  grease, onions, potatos, carrots, & salt into the liquid and then add
  1 qt. of hot water. Bring to a boil then boil for 10 minutes. Reduce
  heat to simmer. After 10 more minutes add the buttermilk & butter and
  cover. Cook for 10 minutes more then serve hot. Origin: Oksana
  Larashenko, Periaslav, Ukraine circa 1995 Submitted By DON HOUSTON
   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ukrainian Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Ukrainian, East europe, Side dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 lb White beans, dried
  1 1/2 lb Sauerkraut
    3/4 lb Salt pork
      4 ea Potatoes, cubed
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 tb Flour
      1 ea Onion, lg. chopped coarsely
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper
      4 ea Bay leaves
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 tb Peppercorns
    1/2 c  Yogurt, plain
      1 ea Carrot, lg. chopped
 
  Soak the beans overnight. Cook the meat, potatoes, beans and
  sauerkraut separately. Bone the meat when it is done and cut into
  1/2" cubes. Dice the potatoes. Crush the beans. Make a roux with the
  oil, flour & onion. Put meat & vegetables into a pot, add the roux,
  and the bay leaves. Cover with the stock & cook 10 minutes more.
  Before serving, add the yogurt. Origin: Marina Kaspazhulin,
  Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine, circa 1995 Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On
   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ukrainian Meat & Fish Stew
 Categories: Ukrainian, Main dish, Meats, Seafood
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 lb Ground lamb
    1/2 lb Herring, fresh, cubed,
           Skinned & boned
    1/2 c  Plain Yogurt
      4 tb Butter
      4 ea Eggs, seperated
      1 ea Garlic clove minced
      1 ea Onion lg. chopped
      4 ea Potatos peeled & boiled
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Goat cheese <Feta> crumbled
      3 tb Bread crumbs
      4 tb Carrots shredded
 
  Put 1 qt of milk into a bowl and soak the herring in it 8-12 hours.
  Pat dry being sure to remove any and all bones. Fry the onions &
  garlic in 2 T of butter until golden. Pan fry the ground meats and
  place into a food processor. Add the onion, garlic herring, &
  potatos. Chop until a smooth mixture is achieved. Stir in the yogurt
  and the egg yolks. Add the spices. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.
  & butter a large baking dish. Add the shredded carrots at this point.
  Beat the egg whites until the are fairly stiff but not dry and then
  add to the mixture. Turn the mixture into the buttered baking dish.
  Sprinkle with the bread crumbs and goat <Feta> cheese, dot with
  remaining butter, & then bake for 45 minutes. Serve hot. Origin:
  Larissa Shelkevskaya, Kiev, Ukraine, circa 1995 Submitted By DON
  HOUSTON   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cossack Chicken & Mushrooms
 Categories: Ukrainian, Poultry, Main dish, East europe
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 oz Chicken boneless & skinless
      5 tb Butter
      1 ea Garlic clove minced
      1 ea Onion lg.
    1/2 ts Nutmeg ground fine
    1/2 c  Swiss cheese grated
    1/2 c  Feta cheese crumbled
      3 tb Sour cream or plain yogurt
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, fresh, washed &
           -coarsely chopped
 
  Cook the onion & mushrooms together in 4 T of the butter. Mince the
  onion/mushroom mixture and the chicken together. Add the garlic & the
  chicken-mushroom mixture and cook for 5 minutes adding salt & pepper
  to taste. Remove from heat and stirin the yogurt and nutmeg. Preheat
  the oven to 400 degrees F. Pour the chicken mixture into a baking
  dish and sprinkle with grated cheese. Bake for 15 minutes. Origin:
  Galina Moreshnko - Kiev, Ukriane, circa 1995
  Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cossack Braised Lamb]
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Ukrainian, East europe
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
 3 1/16 lb Lamb shoulder cubed 1/2"
      2 ea Onion, chopped
      1 tb Tarragon
    1/2 tb Paprika
      2 ea Garlic cloves minced
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Beef stock
      1 c  Yogurt, plain
      2 ea Apples, cored, peeled, &
           - cubed 1/2"
 
  Brown lamb slowly in butter, add additional butter if necessary. Add
  onion, paprika, & tarragon. Saute for 4-5 minutes, add vinegar, salt,
  pepper, & stock. Cover & simmer until meat is tender, about 1 hour.
  Stir in the yogurt and apples and simmer for 15 minutes more. You may
  want to serve this dish with rice or noodles. Origin: Tanya
  Poreshemov, Kiev, Ukraine circa 1995
  Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Substitutions for Wheat Flour
 Categories: Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           The following flours and
           -meals may be substituted
           -for 1 cup of wheat flour

MMMMM---------------------SUBSTITUTE FLOURS--------------------------
    1/2 c  Barley flour
  1 1/4 c  Rye flour
      1 c  Rye meal
  1 1/3 c  Ground rolled oats
    1/2 c  Rye flour and 1/2 cup
           -potato flour
    2/3 c  Rye flour and 1/3 cup
           -potato flour
    5/8 c  Rice flour and 1/3 cup rye
           -flour

MMMMM----------------ORIGIN: THE ALLERGY COOKBOOK---------------------

MMMMM----------------SHARED BY: SHARON STEVENS, J---------------------
 
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gluten Free Substitutes for Flour
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Corn flour
    3/4 c  Coarse corn meal
      1 ea Scant cup of fine corn meal
    5/8 c  Potato flour (often called
           -potato starch)
      1 ea Scant cup wheat starch
    7/8 c  Rice flour and 1/3 cup
           -potato flour
      1 c  Soy flour and 3/4 cup
           -potato flour

MMMMM----------------ORIGIN: THE ALLERGY COOKBOOK---------------------

MMMMM----------------SHARED BY: SHARON STEVENS, J---------------------
 
  The above mixtures may be substituted for one cup of wheat flour.
  
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gluten Free Flour Mix
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           This can be kept on hand
           -for use for substituting
           -directly into any
           Recipe calling for all
           -purpose wheat flour.  If
           -the recipe calls for 1 cup
           -of flour, use 1 cup of the
           -mix.

MMMMM-------------------GLUTEN FREE FLOUR MIX------------------------
           Sift together SIX times
      2 c  Wheat starch
    3/4 c  Potato flour
    3/4 c  Corn flour
    1/4 c  Soy flour
      1 c  Rice flour
      6 tb Arrowroot flour
      6 tb Tapioca flour
 
  If you use this combination for baking, the time should be longer and
  the over cooler than the original recipe calls for.  Blend together
  thoroughly. Use this in any recipe calling for all purpose flour
  EXCEPT for bread, gingerbread, doughnuts, fritters or shortbread,
  unless you have a special gluten free recipe. Origin: The Allergy
  cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sugar in Baking
 Categories: Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Sugar is an essential
           -ingredient in traditional
           -baking.  Besides
           Contributing a sweet taste,
           -sugar causes browning,
           -initiate the action
           Of yeast, helps increase
           -the size of cakes, and
           -makes baked goods more
           Tender.
 
  Sugar can be made from cane or beet, and comes in several forms
  besides the usual granulated form.  Icing sugar, somtimes known as
  powdered or confectioner's sugar, is sifted sugar and contains corn
  or wheat starch or corn flour to keep it free flowing.  Berry or
  castor sugar in finely granulated so it can be used in a shaker on
  shortbread or fruit.  Party sugar comes in large granules and is
  sometimes artificially coloured for special effects in the sugar
  bowl.  Brown sugar is color graded by names: light yellow, golden
  brown, old fashioned, or dark.  Demerara sugar is a coarse brown
  sugar with a slight rum flavour.  Molasses in a by product of sugar
  refining.  Sorghum is made from sorghum grass and is thinner than
  molasses and has a slightly more sour flavour. Origin: The Allergy
  Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meats, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Diced celery
  1 1/4 ts Dried basil
    3/4 ts Dried oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Celery salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ea Lg garlic clove, crushed
      2 tb Cider vinegar
  1 1/2 lb Ground round
    1/2 c  Dry bread crumbs
  1 1/2 c  Fresh corn kernels, divided
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1 ea Egg
        x  Vegetable cooking spray
    1/4 c  Tomato sauce
 
  Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat.  Add the onion
  and celery; saute 5 minutes or until tender and lightly browned.  Add
  basil and the next 5 ingredients (basil through garlic); cook 2
  minutes. Remove from heat; stir in vinegar.  Combine onion mixture,
  meat, bread crumbs, 1/2 cup corn, and parsley in a large bowl; set
  aside.
  
  Place the remaining corn and egg in a food processor, and process
  until almost smooth.  Add to meat mixture; stir well (mixture will be
  wet).
  
  Shape meat mixture into a 9 x 4-inch loaf.  Place meat loaf on a
  broiler pan coated with cooking spray.  Bake at 350 degrees F. for 30
  minutes. Brush tomato sauce over meat loaf; bake an additional 35
  minutes. Let stand 5 minutes before slicing.  Yield:  6 servings
  (serving size: 1 slice).
  
  CALORIES 293 (32% from fat); PROTEIN 28.8g; FAT 10.4g (sat 3.2g, mono
  4.7g, poly 1g); CARB 21.3g; FIBER 3.3g; CHOL 107mg; IRON 3.8mg;
  SODIUM 601mg; CALC 66mg
  
  From COOKING LIGHT magazine, July/Aug. 1995.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Mashed Potatoes
 Categories: Potatoes, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  6 1/2 c  Cubed peeled baking potato
           -(about 2 3/4 pounds)
      2 ea Garlic cloves, halved
    1/2 c  1% low-fat milk
    1/2 c  Low-fat sour cream
      2 tb Minced fresh parsley
      2 tb Minced fresh oregano
      1 tb Minced fresh thyme
      1 tb Margarine
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Place potato and garlic in a large saucepan; cover with water and
  bring to a boil.  Cook 20 minutes or until very tender; drain.
  
  Return potato mixture to pan.  Add milk and remaining ingredients;
  beat at medium speed of a mixer until smooth.  Yield:  6 servings
  (serving size: 1 cup).
  
  CALORIES 184 (23% from fat); PROTEIN 4.8g; FAT 4.7g (sat 2.1g, mono
  1.6g, poly 0.8g); CARB 31.8g; FIBER 2.8g; CHOL 8mg; IRON 1.6mg;
  SODIUM 344mg; CALC 71mg
  
  From COOKING LIGHT magazine, July/Aug. 1995.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cucumber Raita
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Nonfat Plain Yogurt
      2 sm Cucumbers; Peeled, Seeded
           -And Finely Diced (About 2
           -Cups)
      2 md Green Onions W/Tops; Finely
           -Chopped, About 4 T.
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
 
  In a bowl, whisk the yogurt until smooth.  Add the remaining
  ingredients. Blend well, cover, and chill until ready to serve.  Can
  be made up to 2 hours in advance.
  
  Nutrition Per Serving:
  
  Calories  111 Calories  Protein  11 Grams  Carbohydrates  16 Grams
  Total Fat  0 Grams  Saturated Fat  0 Grams  Polyunsaturated Fat  0
  Grams Monounsaturated Fat  0 Grams  Cholesterol  4 Milligrams  Sodium
  141 Milligrams  Potassium  563 Milligrams  Calcium  377 Milligrams.
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Grapefruit Salad
 Categories: Fruit, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Orange; Preferably Navel,
           -Peeled And Sectioned
      1 lg Grapefruit; Peeled And
           -Sectioned
      1 lg Green Onion W/Top; Chopped
      1 tb Vegetable Oil From List
      1 tb White Vinegar
      4 lg Lettuce Leaves
 
  In a medium bowl, combine the orange and grapefruit sections with the
  green onion.  Cover and chill.  When ready to serve, mix the oil and
  vinegar together with a fork and toss lightly with the fruit mixture.
  Divide the fruit mixture into 4 portions and serve on lettuce leaves.
  
  Nutrition Per Serving:
  
  Calories  154  Protein  7 Grams  Carbohydrates  25 Grams  Total Fat  5
  Grams  Saturated Fat  1 Gram  Polyunsaturated Fat  3 Grams
  Monounsaturated Fat  1 Gram  Cholesterol  0 Milligrams  Sodium  51
  Milligrams Potassium 1111 Milligrams  Calcium  136 Milligrams.
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Julekake-Norwegian Christmas Bread
 Categories: Breads, West europe, Holiday
      Yield: 2 loaves
 
      2 pk Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water
      1 ts Sugar
      1 c  Milk, scalded
    1/2 c  Butter
      1    Egg, beaten
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Cardamom
      5 c  Flour, approximately
    1/2 c  Citron cut up
    1/2 c  Candied cherries cut up
    1/2 c  White raisins
 
  Dissolve yeast in warm water with a little sugar.  Scald milk and add
  butter;  cool to lukewarm.  Add egg and then yeast mixture.  Add
  sugar, salt and cardamom.  Beat in 2 cups flour and mix well.  Mix
  fruit with a little of the remaining flour so it doesn't stick
  together and add. Stir in rest of flour. Knead on floured cloth until
  smooth. Place in greased bowl. Cover and let rise until doubled.
  Divide into two parts and form round loaves.  Put on greased cookie
  sheets or pie pans. Let rise until nearly double. Bake at 350 degrees
  for 30 to 40 minutes. While warm brush with soft butter or decorate
  with powdered sugar icing mixed with almond flavoring, then almonds
  and more candied cherries.
  
  from Notably Norwegian by Louise Roalson
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   06-30-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Refried Beans 1
 Categories: Vegetables, Tex/mexican, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lard Or Vegetable Oil
      2 c  Cooked Pinto Beans
      2 tb Chile Powder
      1 tb Cumin; Ground
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- Heat the lard in a 10-inch skillet over medium heat until hot.
  Add the pinto beans and cook for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
  Mash the beans then stir in the remaining ingredients.  Add oil to
  the skillet if necessary then cook and stir until a smooth paste
  forms, about 4 minutes. Garnish with shredded cheese, if desired and
  serve, Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Harira Souiria (Lamb and Chicken Soup)
 Categories: Moroccan, Soup/stew, Meats, African
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Lean lamb
      1 oz Butter
      1 md Onion; chopped
      1 tb Parsley; chopped
      2 ts Sweet paprika
      1 ts Powdered saffron
           Salt
           Black pepper;freshly ground
      3 l  Water
     50 g  Chick-peas; soaked overnight
     50 g  Brown lentils
    2/3 kg Tomatoes
      6 tb Lemon juice
     50 g  Rice
     50 g  Flour
      1    Egg
 
  Cut the lamb into 1/2-inch cubes. Blanch the tomatoes, peel and chop
  finely or puree them. Put the meat into a large saucepan with the
  butter, onion, parsley, paprika, saffron and salt and pepper to
  taste. Cook gently, stirring frequently, for 5 minutes. Add the
  water, chick-peas, lentils, tomatoes and lemon juice. Cover the pan
  and cook for 1 1/2 hours. Add the rice and cook for 15 to 20 minutes,
  or until the rice is cooked. Meanwhile, put the flour into a bowl and
  slowly add cold water until you have a thin paste the consistency of
  single cream. Stir the flour mixture into the pan and cook for a
  further 15 minutes. Break open one end of the egg, hold it above the
  soup and let it drop slowly into the soup, stirring constantly. Pour
  the soup into a heated serving dish and serve immediately.
  
  "This rich Moroccan soup, especially prepare and eaten during
  Ramadan, is usually served accompanied by dates."
  
  Source: Jane Grigson (ed.): The World Atlas of Food. A Gourmet's
  Guide to the Great Regional Dishes of the World. Mitchell Beazley
  Publishers 1974. This edition: Spring Books, London 1988. ISBN 0 600
    55929 7. Typed by Heiko Ebeling.
  Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Panckoecken (Medieval Dutch pancakes)
 Categories: West europe, Medieval, Breads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Flour
    7/8 oz Fresh yeast
  1 1/4 c  Tepid milk
      1    Egg
    7/8 oz Melted butter
    1/3 oz Salt
 
  Make a dough from the ingredients and knead it, preferably with your
  hands. After you've done that, let the dough raise for one hour.
  Then roll it out as thinly as you can manage (stop when small holes
  appear) on a flour-dusted surface.  In the middle ages, people
  deep-fried the panckoecken in rapeseed oil.
  
  For special occasions they sometimes added a few raisins or small
  pieces of apple (used as a cake for Lent). At what stage of the
  preparation is not known, but I assume they added them to the dough
  before rolling it out. This way, the pancakes turn out thicker, but
  that's what is needed to keep the raisins or pieces of apple from
  falling out. Since this is a medieval recipe, it didn't have a list
  of ingredients, only instructions. The amounts of the ingredients
  mentioned in this recipe are educated guesses by the Dutch cookbook
  author Annie van't Veer.
  
  Recipe translated and typed by Heiko Ebeling.
  Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Pea Guacamole+
 Categories: Dips/spread, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1    Pk. frozen green peas, (10
           -oz.)
      1 c  Avocado, peeled and cubed
    1/2 c  Sour cream, nonfat
           -alternative
    1/4 c  Chopped scallions
      2 tb Fresh cilantro
  1 1/2 tb Fresh lime juice
      1 tb Canned green chiles, drained
           -and chopped
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 sm Garlic clove, minced
 
  Cook peas according to package directions; drain. Place peas and
  remaining ingredients in food processor and process till smooth.
  Spoon into bowl; cover and chill. serve with no-oil tortilla chips.
  
  Mary Riemerman
  Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   06-27-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asian Noodles+
 Categories: Asian, Pasta
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
MMMMM------------------------BASIC RECIPE-----------------------------
           Noodles cooked al dente
           Soy sauce
           Toasted sesame oil

MMMMM-------------------------VARIATION------------------------------
           Peanuts, coarsely chopped
           Fresh chives, chopped
 
  This recipe is so simple that one remembers that less can be more
  sometimes.
  
  Vary the pasta any way you wish, just make sure that it is al dente.
  
  To prepare: Toss the noodles with soy sauce and Asian (toasted)
  sesame oil to taste.
  
  Variation: Asian peanut and chive pasta
  
  Serve Asian pasta, as above, garnished with coarsely chopped peanuts
  and chopped fresh chives.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Muffaletta+
 Categories: Sandwich, Poultry, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 mini meals
 
MMMMM------------------------OLIVE SALAD-----------------------------
      1 c  Green olives with pimentos,
           -chopped
      1 lg Garlic clove, minced
      2    Anchovy fillets, minced
      1 tb Capers
    1/3 c  Celery, finely chopped
    1/3 c  Fresh parsley, chopped
      1 ts Dried oregano leaves
    1/2 c  Fruity olive oil
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM-----------------OTHER SANDWICH INGREDIENTS----------------------
      4    Skinless, boneless 4 oz.
           -chicken breasts
      1 tb Chile powder
      1 ts Salt
      4    Kaiser rolls, split and
           -toasted
           Leaf lettuce
 
  This recipe originated and is still presented at the Central Grocery
  in New Orleans. The olive salad is usually heaped on layers of deli
  meats and provolone. The cookbooks author (from whose cookbook I
  typed out the recipe) prefers a chile rubbed breast of chicken,
  grilled to perfection. She says "Sazerac anyone."
  
  O.K. the recipe now-
  
  1. Mix all the ingredients for olive salad in bowl. Cover and
  refrigerate.
  
  2. Dust chicken on both sides with chile powder and salt. Broil 2 to 3
  minutes on each side until done but juicy.
  
  3. Put leaf lettuce on bottom half of each roll. Top with a warm
  chicken breast and lots of olive salad.
  
  4. Cut the sandwich in half. Serve with carrot sticks and Cajun potato
  chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Steamed Veal Roll
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Rice vinegar
      2 tb Low-sodium soy sauce
    1/4 ts Grated peeled gingerroot
      2 lg Napa(Chinese) cabbage leaves
    3/4 lb Lean ground veal
      1 tb Pine nuts
      2 tb Low-sodium soy sauce
      1 ts Chopped fresh or 1/2 tsp
           -dried basil
      1 ts Grated peeled gingerroot
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White pepper
      3 lg Shrimp, peeled and chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 ea Egg
      4 c  Hot cooked rice
 
  Combine first 3 ingredients in a bowl; stir well.  Set aside.
  
  Steam cabbage leaves, covered, 3 minutes; set aside.
  
  Combine veal and next 9 ingredients (veal through egg) in a bowl; stir
  well.  Place cabbage leaves side by side, slightly overlapping.
  Spoon veal mixture onto stem end of leaves.  Starting at stem end,
  roll up to form a 9 x 3-inch roll.
  
  Steam veal roll, covered, 25 minutes or until done.  Cut crosswise
  into 8 slices; serve with vinegar mixture and rice.  (Serving size: 2
  slices veal roll, 1 tablespoon vinegar mixture, and 1 cup rice).
  
  CALORIES 422 (18% from fat); PROTEIN 24g; FAT 8.4g (sat 2.6g, mono
  3g, poly 1.6g); CARBOHYDRATES 3.1g; FIBER 0.3g; CHOLESTEROL 128mg;
  IRON 3.7mg; SODIUM 643mg; CALCIUM 31mg.
  
  Recipe by Marja Samsom in COOKING LIGHT magazine, April 1995.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Divan 2
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables, Alcohol, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 4 SERVINGS--------------------------
      2 c  Frozen chopped broccoli
      3 ea Tb Margarine or butter
      3 ea Tb All-purpose flour
    1/8 ts Pepper
           Ds Ground nutmeg
    3/4 c  Light cream or milk
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
      2 ea Tb Dry white wine
  1 1/2 c  Cubed cooked chicken or
           -turkey
      3 ea Tb Grated Parmesan
           Paprika
 
  Cook broccoli according to package directions; drain.  Arrange in a
  10x6x2 inch baking dish. Meanwhile, for sauce, in a medium saucepan
  melt margarine or butter. Stir in flour, pepper and nutmeg. Add cream
  or milk and chicken broth all at once.  Cook and stir till thickened
  and bubbly.  Add Swiss cheese and wine, stirring till cheese melts.
  Pour half of the sauce over broccoli.  Top with chicken or turkey,
  then the remaining sauce. Sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and paprika.
  Bake in a 350F oven about 20 minutes or till heated through.
  
  Submitted By RON ALLARD   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ramen Vegetable Steak Stir-Fry
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables, Meats, Main dish, Wok
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef tip steaks (1/4" thick)
           -cut crosswise into 1" wide
           -strips
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      1 tb Sesame oil
    1/4 ts Ground red pepper (cayenne)
      1 pk (3 oz) Oriental Ramen
           -noodle soup *
      1 pk (16 oz) Green Giant American
           -Mixtures, San Francisco
           -Style Frozen Broccoli,
           -Carrots, Water Chestnuts &
           -Red peppers
      1 ts Cooking oil
      1    Jar (4.5 oz) Whole mushrooms
           -drained
      1 tb Soy sauce *
      4    Green onions
 
  * Soy sauce and ramen noodle soup flavor this quick entree
  
  In a medium sized bowl, combine beef strips, garlic, 1 tablespoon of
  sesame oil and ground red pepper, toss to coat.  Set aside
  
  Remove noodles from package; reserve seasoning package.  Bring water
  to boil in a large saucepan.  Break block of noodles into 3 pieces
  and add to water with frozen vegetables; return to a boil. Reduce
  heat; simmer uncovered 2 to 3 minutes or until vegetables are
  crisp-tender stirring occasionally.  Drain Well.  Return vegetable
  mixture to saucepan and stir in seasoning package from noodles. Cover
  and keep warm.
  
  Rub 1 teaspoon cooking oil over large skillet or wok; heat over
  medium-high heat until hot.  Add steak; cook and stir for 1 to 2
  minutes or until meat is no longer pink.  Stir in vegetable mixture,
  mushrooms, and soy sauce; heat thoroughly.
  
  Garnish with green onions.  Makes 4 (1 1/2 cup servings)
  
  Nutritional information:  1 1/2 cup per  serving. 330 calories; 26g
  protein; 25g carbohydrate; 4g dietary fiber; 13g fat (polyunsat 2gr;
  saturated 4g); Cholesterol 58mg; sodium 840mg; 620 mg potassium.
  
  Dietary Exchanges: 1 Starch, 2 1/2 lean meat; 2 vegetable, & 1 fat.
  
  Original recipe submitted by Linda Morten, Katy, Texas to "Classic
  Pillsbury Cookbooks" March 1994; No. 157
  
  Typos and Meal-Master formatting courtesy  Vince Gordon,  Aug 1994
  Tried, and enjoyed by the Gordon family in Beautiful Spring, Texas
  Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macadamia Nut-Rice Pilaf
 Categories: Rice, Side dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 ts Olive oil
    2/3 c  Uncooked jasmine or other
           -long-grain rice
      4 ea Garlic cloves, minced
  1 2/3 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Thinly sliced green onions
      2 tb Chopped macadamia nuts,
           -toasted
 
  Heat oil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat.  Add the rice,
  and saute 2 minutes.  Add garlic, and saute 2 minutes.  Gradually
  stir in water and salt; bring to a boil.  Cover, reduce heat, and
  cook over medium-low heat 13 minutes or until iquid is absorbed.
  Remove from heat; fluff with a fork.  Stir in sliced green onions and
  macadamia nuts. Serving size: 1 cup.
  
  CALORIES 318 (26% from fat); PROTEIN 5.6g; FAT 9.1g (sat 1.4g, mono
  6.9g, poly 0.4g); CARB 53.3g; FIBER 1.2g; CHOL 0mg; IRON 3.1mg;
  SODIUM 321mg; CALC 43mg
  
  From COOKING LIGHT magazine, April 1995.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Mint Relish
 Categories: Relishes, Tomatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Whole Tomatoes; peeled
    1/2 c  Red Onion; minced
      1 c  Red Wine Vinegar
    1/2 c  Light brown Sugar
      2 ts Fresh Mint; chopped
      1 ts Cumin; ground
      1 ts Coriander; ground
      1 ts Black Mustard Seeds
      1 ts Gingerroot, fresh; peeled;
           -minced
      2 ea Garlic Cloves; minced
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/2 ts Sea Salt
 
  TOMATO MINT RELISH
  
  [By: Tracy Pikhart Ritter] [Makes 1 1/2 cups]
  
  Place all ingredients in a nonreactive saucepan. Bring to a boil,
  reduce to a simmer, and cook for 30 minutes over low heat. Cool
  before serving.
  
  SERVING SIZE: 2 tablespoons
  
  18 calories 0.2 gram fat 0 milligrams cholesterol 40 milligrams sodium
  
  From: Eat More, Weigh Less by Dean Ornish
  
  Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn, Orange And Tomato Relish
 Categories: Relishes, Vegetables, Fruit, Tomatoes
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Corn Kernels (1 large ear),
           -fresh
      1 lg Orange
    3/4 c  Tomatoes; diced
    1/4 c  Red Bell Pepper; diced
      1 tb Cilantro, fresh; chopped
      1 sm Jalapeno Pepper; finely
           -minced
      1 tb Seasoned Rice Vinegar
      1 tb Lime Juice, fresh
           X  Freshly ground black
           -pepper
           X  Salt
 
  CORN, ORANGE AND TOMATO RELISH
  
  [Jean-Marc Fullsack] [Makes 2 cups]
  
  Bring 6 quarts of water to boil. Add the corn. Allow the water to
  return to a boil and blanch the corn for 1 minute, or just until
  tender. Drain and refresh under cold running water. Drain well and
  set aside.
  
  Peel the orange including the white pith and the membrane between
  segments. Cut each segment into quarters.
  
  In a large bowl, combine the corn, orange pieces, tomatoes, red bell
  pepper, cilantro and jalapeno. Pour the vinegar and lime juice over
  the vegetables and toss well. Season to taste with pepper and salt.
  Serve at room temperature.
  
  SERVING SIZE: (1/4 cup)
  
  38 calories 0.3 gram fat 0 milligram cholesterol 39.6 milligrams
  sodium without added salt.
  
  ~-- * VbReader 2.22 #549 * Young at heart...slightly older in other
  places!
  
  ~-- QScan/PCB v1.17 b / 01-0348 * Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online,
  Toronto, Ontario (1:229/15)
  
  Packet: JNS Date: 07-04-95 (08:27) Number: 1380 From: BILL JERNIGAN
  Refer#: NONE To: SHARON STEVENS Recvd: NO Subj: bread... Conf: (14)
  (E)HomeCooki
  
  hi Sharon!
  
  just wanted to thank you for a recipe for italian sourdough
  bread...made some yesterday and it is GREAT!...
  
  for those who missed it:
  
  ~Begin Recipe Export- QBook version 1.00.14
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fry Broccoli Medley
 Categories: Wok, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Pineapple juice
      4 c  Broccoli florets
      4    Sweet peppers, thin sliced
      1    Onion, thin sliced
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Low-sodium soy sauce
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
    1/4 c  Crushed pineapple
      6 c  Hot cooked rice
 
  Get the pineapple juice boiling in the wok. Add broccoli, peppers, and
  onions. Toss to coat and stir-fry for 5 min.
  
  Now, add oyster sauce, soy sauce, and garlic and stir-fry for 2 min.
  Add the pineapple and heat though.
  From: Ron Allard                      Date: 07-04-95 (10:05) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Monterey Jack Tequila Fondue
 Categories: Appetizers, Alcohol, Tex/mexican, Cheese/eggs, Dips/spread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10 oz Chicken broth
    1/3 c  Tequila
      1 lb Monterey Jack cheese,
           -grated
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
 
  Bring the broth and tequila to boil.  Reduce heat and add the grated
  cheese, stirring until smooth.  Stir in cornstarch and continue to
  cook until thick and bubbly.  Pour into fondue pot and set over low
  heat. Serve with vegetables dippers and salsa.  Makes 6 servings.
  
  Origin: KRAFT What's Cooking Magazine, 10th issue. Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens, Dec/94.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-04-95 (00:00) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Lactose-Free Cheese Spread
 Categories: Allergy, Cheese/eggs, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Lecithin
    3/4 lb Cheddar cheese
 
  Mix in processor until desired consistency.  Scrape into jar and
  refrigerate.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-04-95 (00:00) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Granola Cereal
 Categories: Allergy, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 c  Rolled oats
      1 c  Unsalted raw sunflower
           -seeds
      1 c  Sesame seeds or flax seeds
      1 c  Sliced almonds or other
           -nuts
      1 c  Raw wheat germ or corn
           -grits
      1 c  Dessicated coconut OR 1 cup
           -lecithin granules
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Powdered skim milk
      1 c  Vegetable oil
      1 c  Liquid honey, or corn syrup
      2 c  Raisins or currants
 
  Mix dry ingredients (do not add raisins)  Blend in oil and honey.
  Bake on broiler tray at 250F for 1-1/2 hours, stirring every half
  hour.  Add raisins after cooking, while still warm. If you use salted
  sunflower seeds, do not add extra salt.
  
  Origin: Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-04-95 (00:00) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Pineapple Rye Muffins
 Categories: Allergy, Muffins, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Rye flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb Sugar
      5 ts Baking powder
      4 tb Crushed pineapple, drained
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Water or pineapple juice
      4 tb Fat, melted
 
  Preheat oven to 400F.  Sift dry ingredients; add drained crushed
  pineapple. Combine beaten egg, water and melted fat.  Add to dry
  ingredients and stir until just combined.  Fill greased muffin pans
  2/3 full and bake for 35 minutes.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-04-95 (00:00) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Non Peanut Nut Butter
 Categories: Allergy, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 tb A tolerated oil (or water)
      1 c  Any tolerated seeds or nuts
           Salt to taste
 
  Blend in processor until smooth consistency.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-04-95 (00:00) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Cottage Cheese Pancakes
 Categories: Allergy, Pcake/waffl, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Cottage cheese
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
      2 tb Potato flour
    1/4 c  Rice flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
      1 tb Melted butter
 
  Mix together the cottage cheese, eggs, flours, baking powder, and
  butter. Fry on a hot, oiled griddle.  Serve with apple sauce.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  From: Sharon Stevens                  Date: 07-04-95 (00:00) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Turkey
 Categories: Poultry, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 lb Butter
    1/2 sm Bottle of garlic juice
    1/2 sm Bottle onion juice
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce
      4 tb Fajita sauce
    1/2 c  White wine
      1 ts Mustard
    1/2 cn Chicken broth
 
  Ingredients and amounts may be varied according to individual taste.
  
  Blend all ingredients (except broth) in a large sauce pan over low
  heat. Add chicken broth to pan which will approximately double amount
  of mixture. Let simmer for 5 minutes then cool to room temperature.
  
  Wash turkey thoroughly.  Using a large syringe, inject cooled mixture
  into all meaty areas of turkey (breast, wings, drumsticks, thighs,
  etc.).  Let marinate in refrigerator overnight.
  
  To Cook:  Heat 5 gallons of cooking oil (preferably peanut oil) to 300
  degrees F. in large boiling pot (35 to 45 qts.)  Lower whole turkey
  into hot oil SLOWLY and CAREFULLY.  Cover pot checking oil
  temperature every few minutes maintaining a 280-310 degree range.
  Cook for exactly 3.5 minutes per pound of turkey weight  (i.e. a 10
  lb turkey will cook in 35 minutes) As soon as time is up, remove
  turkey, wrap in aluminum foil. After at least 15 minutes, slice
  turkey as you would a baked one.
  
  Once you have tasted, you will NEVER want to bake another turkey.
  
  From: BARRY STRITTMATTER
  From: Pat Stockett                    Date: 07-04-95 (06:38) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pastrami
 Categories: Can/preserv, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    4 to 5 pound lean beef
           Brisket
 
  Into a LARGE plastic bag combine: 2 1/3 cups pickling salt 1 Tbs.
  potassium nitrate 1/8 Tbs liquid smoke 1 1/2 Tbs sugar 12 large
  garlic cloves, crushed 4 quarts cold water
  
  Mix until dissolved then add brisket and seal bag. Place in cool spot
  for 5 days.  Gently agitate bag once or twice a day.
  
  Prepare spice mixture of 2 parts black peppercorns and 5 1/2 parts
  coriander seed.  Coarsely crush and set aside.
  
  Remove meat from brine and coat with spice mixture. Place on cookie
  rack and cookie sheet in oven at 130 degrees for 1 hour, then raise
  heat to 220 degrees for 4 hours. Cool for 2 hours or overnight.
  
  To cook, bring 10 quart pot of fresh water to a boil and add meat.
  Simmer for about 2 3/4 hours.
  
  Serve hot or chill and eat cold.
  
  From: STEVE SHANKER
  From: Pat Stockett                    Date: 07-03-95 (06:43) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Christmas Barshch With Mushroom Pockets
 Categories: Polish, Vegetables, Holiday
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Carrots, cut up
      2    Celery stalks
      2    Parsley roots
      2    Onions, quartered
    1/4    Head savoy cabbage
      5    Peppercorns
           Salt to taste
      2 qt Water
      8 md Beets
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Pepper
        ds Garlic powder
 
  Simmer the vegetables with peppercorns and salt in water for 30
  minutes. Strain. Wash and bake the beets for 1/2 hour in moderate
  350F oven. Peel, grate coarsely, and add to broth. Simmer 5 minutes.
  Add lemon juice. Season. Serve with Mushroom Pockets.
  
  MUSHROOM POCKETS
  
  STUFFING 2 ounces dried mushrooms OR 4 ounces fresh mushrooms,
  chopped 1/2 c. water 1 large onion, diced 2 T butter 1 slice white
  bread, soaked in water and squeezed 2 T bread crumbs salt and pepper
  
  DOUGH 1 1/2 c. sifted flour dash salt 1 egg 1/2 c. water
  
  Wash dried mushrooms well. Soak in 1/2 cup water 4 hours. Bring to
  boil, simmer 1 hour, OR fry fresh mushrooms in 1 talblespoon butter.
  Fry the onions in butter till golden. Grind the mushrooms, onions,
  and bread. Add bread crumbs, salt, and pepper. Combine the flour with
  salt and egg mixed with water. Knead into elastic, shiny dough. If
  needed add water or flour; it should roll out easily. Roll out as
  thin as possible without tearing. Cut into 1 1/2 to 2 inch squares.
  Lay 1 teaspoon stuffing in the centre. Fold diagonally, forming a
  triangle. Seal the edges with fingers. Lift the two long corners of
  the triangle up, and seal them together. Cook in a large kettle of
  boiling water. Remove with colander spoon, add to the soup, and serve
  immediately. Serves 6
  
  From: TERESA STALIS
  
  From: Pat Stockett                    Date: 07-04-95 (06:42) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vernon's Jerk Pork
 Categories: Meats, Salsa/sauce, Chilies, Hot/spicy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lg Onions
      2 tb Ginger
      2 ts Allspice
      2 tb Garlic
     12 ea Scotch bonnet peppers
           -crushed or any hot pepper
      1 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Black pepper
      2 c  White vinegar
 
  Grind onions and peppers in food processor. Add remaining ingredients
  in mixing bowl. Marinate 4 - 6 slices fresh ham or fresh butt
  overnight. Next day cook in oven for 1 1/4 hr. Put on grill for 15 -
  20 minutes, brushing with sauce.
  
  From Vernon's Jerk Palace.
  
  From: Roger Martin                    Date: 07-04-95 (16:53) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burbon Baked Beans
 Categories: Side dish, Main dish, Vegetables, Alcohol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4    16oz cans Boston Baked Beans
      1 cn 16oz crushed pineapple
           - drained
      1    12oz jar chili sauce
    1/2 c  Strong brewed coffee
    1/2 c  Bourbon
    1/4 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
      1 tb Mollasses
    3/4 ts Dry mustard
 
  Combine beans and remaining ingredients in a Crock-Pot or other slow
  cooker.  Cover and cook on high 2 hours; uncover and cook to desired
  consistency.  Serve with a slotted spoon.
  
  NOTE:  To make strong coffee, dissolve 1 teaspoon instant coffee
  granules in 1/2 cup hot water.
  
  From Southern Living
  
  From: Roger Martin                    Date: 07-04-95 (16:53) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Peach Dream Pie
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------PIE FILLING-----------------------------
      1    9" graham craker crust pie
           -shell
      2    Envelopes Dream Whip Whipped
           Topping mix
  2 3/4 c  Cold skim milk divided
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 pk (4 serving size) vanilla
           -flavored Jell-o instant fat
           -free pudding and pie fillng
      1 c  Fresh peaches (diced)

MMMMM------------------------PIE TOPPING-----------------------------
    3/4 c  Fresh peaches cut up
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Cornstarch
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Honey
 
                                 Pie Filling 1. Beat whipped topping
  mix, 1 cup of the milk, and vanilla in a large CS> Hi! Some days ago
  I read a recipe for Mexican refried beans CS> in this area but I'm
  afraid I deleted it ... So if someone CS> could be so kind to post it
  again ... Greetings from Germany CS> and thanks in advance .....
  
  Was this it?
  
  From: Roger Martin                    Date: 07-04-95 (16:53) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Re-fried Beans From Scratch
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Dried Pinto Beans
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 c  Bacon Drippings
      3 ea Garlic Cloves
    1/4 c  Bacon Drippings
 
  :     Pick over beans to remove rocks and bad beans.  Wash and put in
  large pot with sugar.  Add enough cold water to cover at least twice
  as deep as beans and heat to boiling. Cover and simmer for 3 hours or
  until beans are soft, adding additional water when necessary during
  cooking.  Add 1/2 cup bacon drippings, salt and garlic.  Cook at
  least 1 hour more, stirring occasionally. Can be cooked for more than
  4 hours or overnight if there is enough water or using a slow cooker.
  To re-fry the beans: Place beans in heavy fry pan, stir frequently,
  until beans are reheated. Mash with a fork or potato masher.  Brown
  beans until dry and a little crusty, stirring frequently.  Add salt,
  if needed, to taste. Note: Bacon drippings or lard give the best
  flavor, but for those concerned with cholesterol levels, vegetable
  oil may be substituted. If desired, one or more of the following may
  be added to beans during frying. :    Grated cheese to taste
  :    Chopped chiles
  :    Diced onion
  :    Crisp, crumbled bacon If beans become too thick, thin with a
  little milk.
  
  From: Dorothy Flatman                 Date: 07-04-95 (08:29) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Frijoles Refritos
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetables, Cheese/eggs, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Lard or bacon grease
      2 c  Cooked pinto beans
  1 1/2 c  Beef broth
      2 c  Shredded cheese
 
  Heat lard or bacon grease in skillet until almost smoking. Add pinto
  beans and fry. Add beef broth and stir thoroughly to avoid scorching.
  Add cheese and blend. When cheese is melted and blended, re-fried
  beans are ready.
  
  From: Dorothy Flatman                 Date: 07-04-95 (08:29) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swiss Steak
 Categories: Meats, Crockpot
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Round steak, cut 3/4" thick
      2 tb Flour
           Salt and Pepper to taste
      1 md Onion, sliced
      1    Carrot, chopped
      1 sm Stalk celery, chopped
      1    15 ounce can tomato sauce
 
  Cut round steak into serving pieces. Season flour with salt and
  pepper. Dredge meat in seasoned flour. Place onions in bottom of
  CROCK-POT; add meat. Top with carrots and celery and cover with
  tomato sauce. Cover and cook on Low 8 to 10 hours (High 3 to 5 hours)>
  
  Creamy Swiss Steak: Place onions and meat in CROCK-POT as directed.
  Spread 1 10-ounce can Cream of Mushroom soup over meat. Cook as
  directed. From: Ron Allard                      Date: 07-04-95
  (09:31) (19) (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crockpot Chicken And Rice
 Categories: Poultry, Crockpot, Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, fresh
    1/2 c  Onions, chopped
      2 lb Chicken, raw
      1 ts Chicken bouillon
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Water
    3/4 c  Rice, uncooked
 
  Preparation: Slice mushrooms. Remove skin from chicken. Spray 12"
  skillet with nonstick spray coating. Brown mushrooms, onion, and
  chicken pieces on all sides over medium heat about 15 minutes. Stir
  in seasonings and transfer to crockpot. Can be refrigerated overnight.
  
  Start crockpot on LOW. When ingredients are heated, add rice. Cook
  until done.
  From: Ron Allard                      Date: 07-04-95 (09:31) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PACIFIC SALMON with Hot Cucumber Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Microwave
      Yield: 4 serving
 
  1 1/2 lb Pacific Salmon steak
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Cucumber, chopped
      2 ts Green onion, chopped
    1/2 ts Dill weed
    1/2 ts Salt
        pn Pepper (white preferred)
 
  Description:
  
  Moist and Flavourful Salmon Steaks with a creamy, nicely textured
  sauce in 10 minutes flat.
  
  Instructions:
  
  In a 12X8X2" microwave baking dish arrange slamon steaks with thickest
  parts in the corners.  Dampen 4 squares of paper towel.  Layering one
  over the other, cover the dish.  Microwave at HIGH for 6-7 min.  Let
  stand. Test for doneness.  Juices should run clear and flesh should
  be opaque when fork-tested.  Meanwhile combine remaining ingredients
  in a small microwave-safe bowl.  Micowave at 50% power for 2 1/2 min.
  or until evenly heated, stirring twice during cooking period.  Pour
  hot sauve over slamon and serve immediately.
  
  Source/Author: Fisheries Council of B.C. / typo Bob Shiells
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Garden Stuffing
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 /2 c  pota
 
           -chopped
    1/4 c  Tomato, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Cucumber, finely chopped
      2 tb Green Pepper, fine chopped
      2 tb Onion, finely chopped
      4 oz Pacific Shrimp or Crabmeat
           -(optional)
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Fresh dill, finely chopped
           Salt And Pepper
      1 tb Butter, melted
 
  Description:
  
  Sufficient for whole Pacific Salmon approx 3 lbs
  
  Instructions:
  
  In a bowl combine all ingredients, tossing gently but thoroughly to
  distribute evenly.  Stuff salmon cavity lightly.  Any remianing
  stuffing may be wrapped in foil and cooked alongside salmon.  Or, if
  desired, stuffed salmon may be baked; measure at thickest point,
  including stuffing, and bake at 450F for 10 min. per inch thickmess
  or until juices run clear and flesh, fork-tested along the backbone,
  is opague.
  
  Source/Author: Fisheries Council of B.C. / typo Bob Shiells
  
  Notes:
  
  See Barbequed Pacific Salmon; this is a great stuffing for the salmon.
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Information
 Categories: Information, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  Fresh or frozen crab is prized for its delicately flavored, white,
  sweet meat. To taste it at its best, prepare crab simply and serve it
  with mild seasonings. For example crab is often steamed and served
  with melted butter for dipping. There are six major kinds of crab,
  depending on time of year and location.
  
  BLUE: They are caught primarily along the East Coast and have a hard
  or soft shell, depending on the season. With soft shells, the whole
  crab is edible except for the face, intestines and gills.
  
  DUNGENESS: These West Coast favorites weigh from 1 1/2 to 3 1/2
  pounds. They usually are sold as whole cooked crab. The meat from the
  body is white and from the claws and legs it's reddish.
  
  KING: Alaskan crabs weigh from 6 to 20 pounds. Their legs, up to 3
  feet long, have long pieces of red-flecked white meat. SNOW: About
  half the size of king crabs, snow crabs have long spindly legs
  containing meat. They're also known as spider, tanner or queen crabs.
  
  ROCK: These small crabs are native to New England and California. They
  weigh only 5 to 8 ounces and have brownish meat.
  
  STONE: These are found primarily in the waters off the Florida coast.
  Only the meat from the claws is eaten.
  
  You can buy whole crabs live, cooked and frozen. Legs and claws are
  also available cooked and frozen. Cooked crab meat comes frozen,
  pasteurized (which requires refrigeration) and canned. Canned crab is
  available as claw meat, lump meat or flaked meat. Live crabs should
  be active in the holding tank and heavy for their size. Their shells
  should feel hard (except for soft-shell crabs). Frozen crabs should
  be wrapped well without evidence of ice or frozen juices. Crab and
  meat should smell sweet, not fishy. If possible, cook live crabs the
  same day you buy them.
  
  Source: Sacramento Bee, 10/12/94 Shared by: David Knight
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Soup Hints
 Categories: Allergy, Information, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------MEATS--------------------------------
           Beef and poultry are used
           -sparingly as they have a
           -strong flavor.  Pork is too
           -sweet to make a good soup.
 
  FILLER:  There are may ingredients which make soups heartier - try any
  one... rice, potato, beans, barley, lentils, peas or noodles.
  
  VEGETABLES: Tomatoes, both canned and fresh, onions, parnsips, leeks
  or celery make good soup.  Turnips, broccoli stems and lima bean
  should be used sparingly because of strong flavour.  Peas, corn and
  carrots are too sweet to be used alone.
  
  THICKENING: Add the following per cup of soup liquid: 1 tsp barley, 1
  tsp rice, 1 tsp oatmeal, 2 tbsp wheat germ, 2 tbsp soy flour or 1-1/2
  tsp flour. These work best when mixed in cold water and then added to
  the soup. Leftover gravy is an excellent soup thickener.
  
  SEASONINGS: Salt, pepper and a selections of peppercorns, paprika,
  thyme, bayleaf, barley, cayenne, mace or allspice are generally used
  in seasoning soups. Season lightly in the beginning, adding more
  seasoning immediately before serving. Soup is best one day old whe
  nit's flavor has intensified. Grease forms a cake that is easily
  removed from cold soup.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Some General Suggestions for living with Allergies
 Categories: Allergy, Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  1.  Batters adjusted with substitutions may remain runny, so bake in
  a pan with a rim to protect your oven; do not fill to the top.
  
  2. Cakes which have been made with substitutes are very delicate.  For
  easier removal, grease pan, line with waxed paper, grease and flour
  the waxed paper with allowed substitutes for the grease and flour.
  
  3. Always be on the lookout for recipes that do not use the allergenic
  food, or that need so little of the allergenic food that substitution
  is easy.
  
  4. When cooking for allergic children, think of their food in terms of
  substitutes for the ordinary food the rest of the family is having.
  The closer in appearance an allergic child's food look to the family
  food, the more satisfied and appreciative he will be.  This is even
  more important when a child goes to a party.  Most hostesses are very
  cooperative about their menu, so that you can match the food served
  as nearly as possible with your child's special foods.
  
  5. Be creative. If you can't use a traditional birthday cake, invent
  one - either a mock one out of cardboard or say, a brick of ice
  cream, frosted with whipping cream or drizzled with chocolate sauce,
  topped by lighted candles.
  
  6. Look into Chinese wok cookery or East Indian cooking as these do
  not use traditional North American and European ingredients.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miscellaneous Allergy Hints
 Categories: Allergy, Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------NO INGREDIENTS----------------------------
 
  1.  For spice allergies, simply remove the spice in question.  The
  same is true for herbs and mustard.
  
  2.  To substitute for semi-sweet chocolate or chocolate morsels
  (which may contain gluten) in a recipes, use 2 level tbsp cocoa and 2
  level tbsp of butter, margarine or shortening for each one ounce
  square of chocolate called for in the recipe.
  
  3. For those allergic to gluten or soy products, make your own soy
  sauce by experimenting with salt, hot water, molasses or caramel.
  The flavour is affected by the heat of the water.
  
  4. Canned junior meats make a handy sandwich filling either on bread
  or bread substitute.
  
  5. Adding mashed bananas to mixtures in which there have been
  substitutions helps hold the mixture together and also adds flavour.
  
  6. Tapioca is very well tolerated by persons with food allergies.  To
  minute tapioca and soy milk, add a little vanilla and sugar, cook to
  pudding form, then add a little corn syrup on top.
  
  7. Ground lamb can be just as versatile as beef.  Use to make
  hamburgers, shepherd's pie, meat loaf. Not all stores will grind lamb
  for you. When you convince one to do so, have them put a bit of lamb
  fat through the grinder first. This removes all traces of any other
  meat ground previously. Don't forget that lamb livers and kidneys can
  be used to provide variety. A good sandwich spread can be made by
  grinding up liver with whatever else can be tolerated and moistened
  with soy milk substitute. Also, one kidney and one liver ground into
  10 pounds of meat yields a delicious, nutritious variation.
  
  8. Use carob powder in recipes in place of chocolate or cocoa by equal
  substitution. Carob looks like chocolate or cocoa and can be
  purchased at health food stores.
  
  9. If you are unable to use lemon juice or ascorbic acid to prevent
  discoloration of fruit, a mild salt solution with do the job.
  
  10. Baking powder may contain corn so check the ingredient listing on
  the container carefully.  A drug store will make up substitute baking
  powder. It is possible to substitute 1 tsp baking powder for 1 egg in
  quick bread recipes, but do not use this substitute in cake recipes.
  
  11. The content of corn in baking powder is so infinitesimal that most
  tartrate baking powders are acceptable, except in extremely unusual
  cases. The following is a corn-free baking powder: 1 part baking
  soda, 1 part cream of tartar, 1 part potato starch.  Make up in any
  quantity and substitute directly.
  
  12. Sometimes merely using equal amounts of cream of tartar and baking
  soda is sufficient, especially for heavy batters such as Christmas
  cake. For example, if the recipe calls for 1 tsp baking poweder, use
  1 tsp cream or tartar and 1 tsp baking soda.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sugar Substitutes in Baking
 Categories: Allergy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Not all recipes lend
           -themselves to substituting
           -sugar.  This is a suggested
           -list of equivalent
           -substitutes for one cup of
           -white or brown sugar:
 
  * 3/4 cup maple syrup and reduce the liquid called for by 2 tbsp
  * 1 cup honey and reduce liquid called for by 1/4 cup
  * 1 cup molasses and reduce liquid called for by 1/2 cup and add 1/2
  tsp
    baking powder
  * 1-1/2 cups sorghum and reduce liquid called for by 1/2 cup
  * 1 cup corn syrup (if pure) and reduce liquid called for by 1/2 cup.
  
  1. When a liquid is substituted in a recipe for sugar, omit 1/2 or
  1/4 cup of the liquid specified in the recipe.  If your diet allows,
  only substitute half the sugar for the liquid sweetener.  This is
  especially helpful when baking with rye and oat flours.  Leave baking
  a day to develop a better flavour.
  
  2.  For those is disaccharide intolerance, sucrose free baby formulas
  can be used as a milk-like drink.
  
  3. Goat's milk combine with sucrose-free soy milk makes a richer
  cooked product.
  
  4. Aspartame (trade name Equal) can be sustituted sparingly for sugar
  for table top use. It does not work in the heating process.
  
  5. Use the juice from unsweetened fruit such as pineapple or fruits
  packed in pear juice instead of a sugar syrup.
  
  6. Consider elimination sugar in June and July if you are allergic to
  grass, as cane sugar and grass are related botanically.
  
  7. Club soda contains no sweetening and makes a refreshing drink if
  you add peppermint, rum or raspberry flavourings. People with
  hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) must NOT use any of the above
  sweeteners. Instead, they must use artificial sweeteners in liquid,
  granulated or tablet form.
  
  LIQUID EQUIVALENTS:
  
  Liquid: 1/4 tsp   1 ml 1 tsp   5 ml    2 tsp  10 ml    1 tbsp    5 ml
  Sugar:    2 tsp  10 ml 8 tsp  40 ml  1/3 cup  75 ml  1/2 cup   125 ml
  Tablet: 1/4 gram = 1 tsp sugar 1/2 gram = 2 tsp sugar
  
  Be sure to check labels for other allergens. Some brands are not milk
  free. When using artificial sweeteners, be careful not to add too
  much or your food with have a bitter taste. It is best to start off
  with a very small amount of sweetener and increase it next time, if
  necessary. Tablets are cheaper than liquid, but liquid is less bitter
  for cooking. When possible, add the sweetener AFTER cooking (ie for
  rhubarb or applesauce) Remember that ordinary sugar preserves, adds
  bulk, stabilizes and sweetens, whereas artificial sweeteners merely
  sweeten. When replacing sugar with artificial sweeteners (especially
  a large quantity such as 1/2 cup, you must adjust the other
  ingredients to make up for the loss of the sugar properties. Cereal,
  fruit and decaffeinated coffee, which usually call for a little
  sugar, can with perseverance, be enjoyed without any sweetener at
  all. Anyone with hypoglycemia can carry gelatin capsules when away
  from home. The proide protein when a snack is impossible to obtain.
  Keep them by your bedside and take during the night if you wake up
  with any low blood sugar sympoms. Capsules are available at drug
  stores.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Hock, Stock and Barley Soup
 Categories: Allergy, Nuts/grains, Potatoes, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           * Macaroni can be
           -substituted for corn
           -macaroni if wheat is a
           -problem.
      2 lb Soup bones
    1/2 c  Split peas
    1/4 c  Lentils
    1/4 c  Pot barley
      2 ea Onions, choppped
      4 ea Celery stalks, chopped
      1 lg Potato, chopped
      2 ea Carrots, chopped
    1/2 c  Macaroni * (alphabet
           -letters)
      2 c  Tomato juice
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Rinse off bones quickly in cold water and trim off all excess fat.
  Place in large soup pot and cover with cold water.  Bring to a boil
  and simmer for at least one hour.  Cool.  Skim off fat and scum.
  Meanwhile, put the split peas, lentils and the barley into a bowl.
  Cover with boiling water and allow to soak for an hour or so while
  the bones are cooking. Drain them and add to soup pot.  Simmer an
  additional hour. Add the onion, celery, potato, carrots, macaroni,
  juice, salt and pepper and worchestershire sauce. Simmer another hour
  occassionally stirring to prevent lentils, barley and peas from
  sinking to the bottom and scorching. Remove bones, pick off meat and
  return meat to soup pot.  If possible, allow to cool and sit
  overnight as the flavour will be better the next day. Origin: The
  Allergy Cookbook Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Scones
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
      8 ts Baking powder
      2 ea Eggs, beaten
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Milk
           Milk for brushing tops
           Sugar for sprinkling
 
  Combine flour, sugar, baking powder and salt. Stir
  
  In another bowl, beat eggs until frothy. Add to flour mixture along
  with cream and milk.  Stir until a soft ball of dough is formed. Turn
  out on a lightly floured surface.  Knead 8 - 10 times.  Pat or roll 1
  inch thick. Cut with round cookie cutter.  Arrange on an ungreased
  cookie sheet (close together for soft sides and 1 inch apart for crip
  sides). Brush tops with milk and sprinkle with sugar.  Bake 425F for
  15 minutes until risen and browned. Source: Company's Coming!
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  24 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 15mn Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gak Recipe
 Categories: Kids
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------JEANNE LUPIEN   (DNDG63B)----------------------

MMMMM-------------------------SOLUTION A------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Warm water
      1 c  Elmer's white glue
           Food coloring
           Mix together until
           --completely dissolved

MMMMM-------------------------SOLUTION B------------------------------
      4 ts Borax
  1 1/3 c  Cups warm water
           Mix together until
           --completely dissolved
 
    Pour solution A into Solution B. Do not mix!
    Lift Gak out and knead into shape.
  
    Here are some tips: Borax can be found in the laundry detergent
  section
    of a grocery store- such as "20 Mule Team"
  
  If you are going to half the recipe... use only half of Solution A and
  mix the whole amount of Solution B.  The results will be the same.
  This is important..This is the only way you can half the recipe. Do
  not double the recipe and do not reuse Solution B (the borax and
  water), use only Elmer's glue.
  
  (Copied from Jean Lockhart who credits this from Lynn Daly over a year
  ago)
  
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Face Painting
 Categories: Kids
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           1 tsp cornstarch
           1/2 tsp water
           1/2 tsp cold cream
           Food coloring
           Muffin pan
 
    In each cup of muffin pan, combine your ingredients using a
  separate cup for each color.
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Classroom Paste
 Categories: Kids
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Non-self-rising wheat
           -flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Cold water
      4 c  Boiling water
      1 ts Powdered alum
    1/2 ts Oil of cinnamon
           -(optional)
 
  1.  Combine flour and sugar in a large pot.  slowly stir in cold
  water to form a paste.
  
  2. Slowly addboiling water, stirring vigorously to bread up lumps.
  
  3. Bring mixture to a boil, stirring constantly, until thick and
  clear.
  
  4. Remove from heat and add alum. Stir until well mixed. 5. Add oil of
  cinnamon if paste will not be used immediately.
  
  Makes about 1-1/2 qts.
  
  How to Use It:  Classroom paste is a good all-purpose paste,
  especially appropriate for work with children.  It is also excellent
  for papier-mache projects. Stored in a closely capped jar, this paste
  will keep for several weeks.  It keeps longer than Paper Paste and is
  a little softer. If it gets too thick it can be thinned with hot
  water for easy spreading.
  
  Source:    NANCY CHRIST   (KRXW62B) Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On
   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Potato Salad 2
 Categories: Diabetic, Vegetables, Salads, Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 sl Bacon; crispy fried
  1 1/2 c  Cold water;
      3 tb Flour;
      1 md Onion;
      3 tb Sugar replacement;
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      6 md Potatoes; boiled sliced
 
  Remove excess grease from bacon with paper towel.  Break bacon into
  small pieces.  Blend cold water and flour.  Pour into saucepan.  Add
  onion, sugar replacement, and vinegar.   Heat, stirring, until
  thickened. Add bacon and potatoes while still from boiling and
  frying. Food Exchange per serving: 1 STARCH/BREAD EXCHANGE + 1 FAT
  EXCHANGE CAL: 113
  
  Source:  The Complete Diabetic Cookbook by Mary Jane Finsand Brought
  to you and yours via Nancy O'brion and her Meal-Master
  Submitted By MARGARET YOUNG   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Meatballs
 Categories: Meats, Fruit, Crockpot, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------FROM: CINDY TARSI--------------------------
           Take 1 can each whole and
           -crushed cranberry sauce
           -and 8 oz tomato sauce.  Put
           -all in a dutch oven and
           -heat.
           Combine 1 lb ground beef
           -with 1 egg and enough
           -bread crumbs so that the
           -meatballs will hold
           -together firmly.  (I used
           -about 1/2 cup, I think it
           -needed a little more).
           You should be able to get
           -about 25 meatballs to the
           -pound (She swears she has
           -this down to a science).
           When she showed me, I got
           -26.  I always was an
           -overachiever ++ Grin!)
           Chop up 1 small or medium
           -onion (about 1/2 - 1 cup)
           Heat some oil (enough to
           -cover bottom of frying pan,
           -or less, as desired and
           -depending on the pan).
           Begin to brown the onions
           -in the pan.  Add as many
           -meatballs as will
           "comfortably" fit; brown
           -meatballs.  When meatballs
           -are browned, add to
           -cranberry mixture.  Add
           -more oil as necessary and
           -continue adding/browning
           -meatballs until all are
           -brown and put in cranberry
           -mix.  Remaining browned
           -onions, drained, may be
           -added, as well.
 
  Simmer over low heat for about 20 minutes or until thoroughly
  cooked/heated through.  Serve, preferably with lots of bread for
  dipping available. Family favorites for dipping are hard-crusted,
  Jewish rye bread or challah.
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Potato Salad 3
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads, Potatoes, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 8 SERVINGS--------------------------
      5 ea Bacon strips
    3/4 c  Onion, chopped
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Cider vinegar
  1 1/3 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      6 c  Potatoes, sliced, cooked
           -and peeled
 
  In a large skillet, fry bacon until crisp; remove and set aside.
  Drain all but 2-3 tablespoons of drippings; cook onion until tender.
  Stir in flour; blend well.  Add vinegar and water; cook and stir
  until bubbly and slightly thick.  Add sugar and stir until is
  dissolves. Crumble bacon; gently stir in bacon and potatoes. Heat
  through, stirring lightly to coat potato slices.  Serve warm.
  
  Submitted By ROGER MARTIN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Browned Green Beans
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Green beans
      1 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Low-salt chicken broth
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 tb Fresh lemon juice
 
  Trim ends from beans and remove strings.  Cut beans in half
  lengthwise, slicing through the seam on each side of beans.
  
  Heat oil in a large skillet over high heat.  Add beans, and cook 5
  minutes or until lightly browned, stirring frequently.  Reduce heat
  to medium and gradually add broth, salt and pepper; cook 2 minutes.
  Remove from heat; stir in lemon juice.  Yield:  6 servings (serving
  size: 3/4 cup).
  
  CALORIES 53 (42% from fat); PROTEIN 1.9g; FAT 2.5g (sat 0.4g, mono
  0.7g, poly 1.4g); CARB 7.3g; FIBEWR 2g; CHOL 0mg; IRON 1.1mg; SODIUM
  110mg; CALC 36 mg.
  
  From COOKING LIGHT magazine, July 1995.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan Fried Coleslaw
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 sl Sweet hickory-smoked bacon
      6 c  Very thinly sliced green
           -cabbage (about 1 pound)
      1 tb Sugar
      3 tb Cider vinegar
      2 tb Water
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Celery seeds
 
  Cook bacon in a large skillet over medium-high heat until crisp;
  remove bacon from skillet, reserving drippings in skillet.  Set bacon
  aside.
  
  Cook cabbage in drippings over medium-high heat 6 minutes or until
  browned, stirring frequently.  Add sugar, vinegar, water, salt, and
  celery seeds and cook 1 minute, stirring constantly.  Remove from
  heat; crumble bacon, and stir into cabbage mixture.  Serve warm.
  Yield: 6 servings (serving size: 1/2 cup).
  
  CALORIES 40 (29% from fat); PROTEIN 1.7g; FAT 1.3g (sat 0.4g, mono
  0.6g, poly 0.2g); CARB 6.3g; FIBER 1.7g; CHOL 3mg; IRON 0.5mg; SODIUM
  263mg; CALC 38mg.
  
  From COOKING LIGHT magazine, July 1995.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Delicate Snow Pea Soup
 Categories: Healthy, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Finely chopped bok choy
    1/4 c  Thinly sliced mushrooms
      2 oz Tofu, cut in small cubes
      1 cl Garlic, minced
    3/4 ts Grated ginger
      1 ts Low sodium soy sauce
      1 c  Fresh snow peas
    1/4 c  Diced green onions with
           -tops
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten,
           -optional
 
  Bring all ingredients except snow peas, green onions and egg whites.
  Simmer 20 minutes. Add snow peas and green onion. cook 5 minutes;
  slowly stir in egg   white, if desired, to make a ribon effect. Makes
  6 servigs.
  
  Variation: For a creamy soup, add 1 heaping teaspoon cornstarch mixed
  incold   water plus 1/2 teaspoon light soy sauce. Add to soup, heat
  until thick and bubbly.
  
  Calories: 37 Protein: 3g Carbohydrates: 4g Fat: 0.5g, 12% Sodium: 45mg
  Cholesterol: 0mg
  
  Cooking for Good Health by Gloria Rose ISBN: 0-89529-577-6 Entered by
  Carolyn Shaw 3-95
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Fried Turkey
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry, Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    10-12 lb Turkey
      4 tb Unsalted butter
    3/4 c  Finely chopped onions
    1/4 c  Finely chopped celery
      3 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Cayenne
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Basic stock
      2 tb Worchestershire
      5 ga Oil for frying
 
  Prepare the turkey: Use a non-butter injected bird. One with no
  seasonings pre-added. If turkey comes with a metal prong that holds
  the cavity closed, remove it and put aside. Remove the neck and
  gibblets from the turkey. Place turkey and neck in a large pan. If
  turkey comes with a plastic "pop-up" doneness indicator, remove and
  discard it. Set pan aside. In a large skillet heat butter over high
  heat until half melted. Add the onions and saute about 3 minutes,
  stirring occasionally Add the celery and garlic, salt, red pepper and
  black pepper. Add cayenne peppers and cook until the mixture is a
  golden brown, about 3 minutes, stir and scrape the pan bottom
  frequently. Add the stock and Worchestershire and bring to a boil,
  stirring constantly. Remove from heat and immediately transfer to a
  blender; blend on highest speed until the mixture is a very smooth
  puree. Rinse and drain turkey well. While puree is still hot, pour it
  into a food injector and inject the puree into the turkey; insert to
  the bone or to the depth of the injector needle, without piercing
  through the cavity. Make injections about 2" apart, using most of the
  puree in the meatiest areas. pour remaining puree, if any, into the
  cavity of the bird and rub it over the inner surface. Set turkey
  aside. Sprinkle a mixture of 2 t salt and 2 t cayenne evenly over the
  bird and inside the cavity. Place the neck inside the cavity. Close
  the legs together and either use the metal prong to hold, or tuck
  legs under the skin flap. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Equipment:
  ~Butane burner with adjustable control, capable of producing a strong
  flame. ~A very deep pot (8 gal or larger) so turkey will be totally
  submerged in hot oil with room left over. Make sure pot is large
  enough to prevent oil from bubbling over. ~A large enough fry-basket
  to fit the turkey in with room to spare that fits the pot; the turkey
  will be slipped into and lifted from the hot bubbling oil in this
  basket. ~A thermometer that reads up to at least 400 deg F and has a
  long probe and clip so that it can be left in the hot oil while the
  turkey fries. ~Two strong heatproof utensils or two 20" or longer
  barbecue forks to use to turn the turkey over in the oil in case it
  doesn't stay submerged while cooking. ~A large platter or pan lined
  with several layers paper bags to absorb oil after turkey is removed
  from the cooker. ~Lots of pot-holders. ~Old towels around the cooker
  on the ground to absorb any spilled oil. Heat oil to 400 deg F.
  Slowly and carefully lower the basket with the turkey in, into the
  hot oil. Adjust flame to maintain temp. as close to 350 deg F as
  possible. Keep bird submerged, or turn carefully so as not to slosh
  oil every 10-15 minutes. Let bird fry until juices run clear when a
  skewer is inserted into breast meat. Total cooking time should be
  35-45 minutes. The bird will look dark brown when done properly.
  Don't worry that it is burning or has burned. Remove basket and bird
  from oil and place turkey BREAST SIDE DOWN, on the paper-bag lined
  platter.  Let drain 5 minutes, turn over and drain and cool 15
  minutes. Carve as normal; serve immediately. Submitted By ALAN
  BURGSTAHLER   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Loganberry Refresher
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      7 c  Loganberries
      2 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Cold water
 
  Combine sugar and water in a small saucepan and cook over medium high
  heat until sugar is dissolved, stirring contantly; remove from heat
  and chill.
  
  Mash berries, then press through a strainer to remove seeds. Combine
  berries with orange juice and lemon juice, and add sugar syrup. Chill
  until very cold. Bevore serving, add cold water.
  
  Makes 8 servings
  
  Per serving: Calories: 150 (6% from protein, 92% from carbohydrate,
  2% from fat) Protein: 2 grams Fat: 0-1 gram Cholesterol: 0
  Carbohydrate: 37 grams Sodium: 4 mg Exchanges: 2 fruit
  
  Source: The Berry Cookbook by Kyle D Fulwiler as published in the
  Oregonian FoodDay June 1995
    Typos by Dorothy Flatman
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Freezer Apricot Nectarine Spoon Marmalade With Cinnamon
 Categories: Fruit, Dips/spread
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh apricots (4 cups)
           -halved and pitted
      3 ea Fresh nectarines, skin on
           -diced and pitted
      3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice (1 lemon)
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      3 ea Cinnamon sticks
 
  If you're leery of making jam because you don't want to go to the
  trouble of canning, consider this easy to make freezer jam. Cook the
  fruit with sugar and spice, spoon it into freezer containers and put
  it away. A few months down the road and you'll be glad you did!
  
  Combine apricots, nectarines, sugar and lemon juice in a medium
  saucepan over medium high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves.
  Continue cooking until jam thickens, about 30 to 35 minutes.
  
  Remove from heat and stir in ground cinnamon. pour jam into plastic
  freezer containers and place a cinnamon stick in the center of each.
  Let stand until cool. Cover jam and store in freezer.
  
  Source: Dungeness Crabs and Blackberry Cobblers by Janie Hibler Typos
  by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb And Orange Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit, Dips/spread
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      2 lb Rhubarb stalks; trimmed and
           -cut into chunks.
           -(About 6 quarts)
    2/3 c  Water
      1 ea Orange; reserve peel
           -Thinly slice orange
           -Finely chop peel
      2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Light rum
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Wash 6 half-pint jars. Keep hot until needed. Prepare lids as
  manufacturer directs.
  
  Place the rhubarb in a nonaluminum pot with water; cover and cook
  gently for about 15 minutes or until tender. Drain and puree through
  a sieve, food mill or food processor. Return to saucepan. Add sugar,
  orange slices and chopped peel.
  
  Cook the mixture over medium heat, stirring often, until the jam
  thickens somewhat and reaches 220 degrees F at sea level to 999 feet
  (218 degrees F at 1,000 feet; 216 degrees F at 2,0000 feet, etc.)
  
  Ladle the hot jam into one hot jar at a time, leaving 1/4 inch head
  space. Wipe jar rim with a clean, damp cloth. Attach lid. Fill and
  close remaining jars. Process in a boiling water bath canner for 10
  minutes (15 minutes at 1,001 to 6,000 feet; 20 minutes above 6,000
  feet).
  
  Makes 5 to 6 half pint jars.
  
  Source: Adapted from Preserving by the editors of Time-Life Books
  Published in the Oregonian FoodDay June 13, 1995
    Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry And Pineapple Conserve
 Categories: Can/preserv, Dips/spread, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 md Pineapple, trimmed, peeled
           -quartered, cored and cut
           -into small pieces to
           -measure about 2 cups
      6 c  Granulated sugar
      3 lb Strawberries; gently crush
           -to measure about 2 quarts
 
  Wash 6 half pint jars. Keep hot until needed. Prepare lids as
  manufacturer directs.
  
  Combine the pineapple and sugar, simmer over low heat for 10 minutes.
  Add the strawberries and cook slowly for about 15 minutes, or  until
  the mixture is thick and reaches 220 degrees F at sea level to 999
  feet (decrease temperature for 2 degrees for each 1,000 feet in
  altitude.)
  
  Ladle the hot jam into one hot jar at a time, leaving 1/4 inch head
  space. Wipe jar rim with clean, damp cloth. Attach lid. Fill and
  close remaining jars. Process in a boiling water bath canner for 10
  minutes (15 minutes at 1,001 to 6,000 feet; 20 minutes above 6,000
  feet.)
  
  Source: Adapted from Preserving by the editors of Time Life Books
  Published in the Oregonian FoodDay June 13, 1995
    Typos by Dorothy Flatman
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fabulous Apricot Preserves
 Categories: Can/preserv, Dips/spread, Fruit
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      4 lb Ripe apricots; divided
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice; strained
      6 c  Granulated sugar
      2 ts Butter
 
  Scald half the apricots in batches by placing them in boiling water
  about 15 seconds, then removing them with a slotted spoon and
  dropping them into a bowl of ice water. Drain apricots, strip off
  their skins and quarter them; set aside.
  
  Halve and quarter the remaining apricots.
  
  Combine apricots and lemon juice ina nonaluminum bowl; mix gently
  with a rubber spatula to distribute the lemon juice. Add sugar and
  mix again. Set the mixture aside for several hours, or for as long as
  2 days in the refrigerator, stirring gently a few times. Most of the
  sugar will be dissolved at this point and the entire mixture will
  appear quite juicy.
  
  When ready to proceed with the recipe, wash 7 half pint jars. Keep hot
  until needed. Prepare lids as manufacturer directs.
  
  Transfer the apricot mixture to a large pot and set the pot over
  medium heat. Add butter and bring mixture to a boil; lower heat and
  simmer, uncovered for 15 minutes, stirring fairly constantly to keep
  the bottom from scorching. Quite a bit of foam is produced and should
  be skimmed off with a spoon.
  
  Now you have to use a bit of judgement: After 15 minutes, if the
  surface of the jam is beginning to look very "glisteny" and the
  bubbles seem thick and shiny, remove from heat. Otherwise, give the
  mixture up to 5 more minutes over the burner, remove from heat and
  skim off additional foam if necessary.
  
  Let the preserves sit about 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Ladle
  preserves into one hot jar at a time, leaving 1/4-inch head space.
  Wipe rim with a clean, damp cloth. Attach lid. Fill and close
  remaining jars. process in a boiling water canner for 10 minutes (15
  minutes from 1,001 to 6,000 feet; 20 minutes above 6,000 feet.
  
  Source: Oregonian FoodDay June 1995 Typos by Dorothy Flatman
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Super Cherry Apple Pie
 Categories: Fruit, Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Pitted fresh sweet cherries
      3 c  Granny Smith apples
           -pared, cored and sliced
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar
      2 tb All purpose flour
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
      2 ea Pastry for 9" pie
      2 tb Butter or margarine
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
  
  Combine cherries and apples in a large bowl. Add sugar, flour,
  vanilla, cinnamon and ginger; mix well. Place mixture in pastry lines
  pie plate; dot with butter. Roll and cut remaining pastry into 3/4"
  strips, weave over fruit, lattice fashion, then seal and flute edges.
  
  Bake 25 minutes, then reduce heat to 400 degrees F and bake 20 minutes
  longer or until fruit is tender and filling begins to bubble. If
  necessary, cover edges of pie with foil partway through cooking time
  to prevent over browning.
  
  Makes 8 servings
  
  Per serving: Calories: 393 (3% from protein, 54% from carbohydrates,
  42% from fat) Protein: 3 grams Fat: 19 grams Cholesterol: 23 mg
  Carbohydrate: 55 grams Sodium: 239 mg Exchanges: 1/2 fruit, 1-1/2
  bread, 3-1/2 fat
  
  Source: Oregonian FoodDay Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Raspberry Scones
 Categories: Fruit, Breads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  All purpose flour
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar PLUS
      1 tb Granulated sugar; divided
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 c  Butter; chilled
           -cut into small pieces
    1/2 c  Milk; 2 percent
      1 ea Egg
      1 ts Lemon peel; grated
    3/4 c  Fresh raspberries
           -OR blueberries
      1 tb Butter; melted
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
  
  In large bowl, combine flour, 1/4 cup sugar, baking powder, salt and
  nutmeg. Cut in the 1/2 cup butter with pastry blender or two knives
  until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Combine milk, egg and lemon
  peel; mix well. Add milk mixture to dry ingredients mixing with fork
  just until dry ingredients are moist and a soft dough forms. Gently
  stir in raspberries (or blueberries).
  
  Gather dough into a ball and gently knead on lightly floured surface
  8 to 10 times. Place dough on lightly buttered baking sheet. Pat into
  9 inch circle, 1/2 inch thick. With sharp knife, cut through dough to
  form 8 wedges; do not separate. Brush top of dough with the melted
  butter; sprinkle with remaining sugar. Bake until golden brown, 20 to
  22 minutes. Cut through scsones, separating wedges; serve warm.
  
  Makes 8 scones
  
  Per serving: Calories: 282 (7% from protein, 48% from carbohydrate,
  45% from fat) Protein: 5 grams Fat: 14 grams Cholesterol: 63 mg
  Carbohydrate: 34 grams Sodium: 328 mg Exchanges: 2 bread, 2-1/2 fat
  
  Source: Oregonian FoodDay June 1995 Typos by Dorothy Flatman
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tortilla Food Tip
 Categories: Breads, Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------TORTILLA TIPS----------------------------
 
  Tortillas, the bread of Mexican cooking, have become a staple in many
  kitchens. They're the emergency fast food for a quick dinner. With a
  can of refried beans in the cupboard and grated cheese in the
  refrigerator, dinner can be ready in minutes. With a few essentials
  in the pantry, you have the versatility to create all kinds of filled
  tortillas.
  
  Tortillas are used for tacos, burritos, chimichangas, fajitas,
  enchiladas, flauta, quesadillas and many other Mexican foods.
  
  While sizes and names vary, tortillas fall into one of two categories:
  flour, made with wheat flour, water and fat; and corn, made with
  masa, a soft flour made from cornmeal treated with lime water.
  
  STORING TORTILLAS Tortillas stored at room temperature will maintain
  good quality for about 10 days. They will keep much longer stored in
  the refrigerator. Even though they are kept at room temperature at
  some supermarkets, most packages call for refrigerating after
  purchase. They are OK to use as long as they do not have mold on them
  or are not too dry.
  
  Frozen tortillas will keep for several months with little or no loss
  of flavor. To use, simply separate the number you want and place them
  on the counter a few minutes to thaw before using as desired. Be sure
  to remove any ice crystals and blot any moisture before heating them;
  this helps prevent soggy spots.
  
  WARMING TORTILLAS Cold corn and flour tortillas can be brittle. They
  are easier to use if they are at room temperature or warm, especially
  if they will be folded or rolled.
  
  There are several ways to heat or soften them: heat a dry skillet,
  saute pan or griddle over medium heat. Warm a tortilla about 30
  seconds, or until the heat from the pan causes them to puff up. Turn
  tortilla and heat the second side about 15 seconds. Fold or roll
  immediately.
  
  To warm in the microwave, place a stack of tortillas between two
  slightly dampened paper towels; microwave 30 seconds to 1 minute
  depending on number of tortillas. Keep wrapped until ready to serve.
  
  To heat in conventional oven, wrap the tortillas in aluminum foil and
  seal completely. Place in preheated 250 degree to 300 degree F oven;
  warm 5 to 10 minutes or until the tortillas are heated through.
  
  For corn tortillas, you can also pour 1 teaspoon vegetable oil in a
  heavy frying pan or griddle. When the oil begins to smoke, add the
  tortilla and fry about 1 minute until it begins to puff. Turn and fry
  on the other side for 1 minute longer.
  
  FOLDING A BURRITO Place an 8 or 10 inch tortilla on a flat surface.
  Spoon the desired filling in the center of the tortilla, mounding
  lengthwide; be careful not to use too much or the tortilla might rip
  open when rolled.
  
  Then fold the right and left sides of the tortilla in toward the
  center so they just touch the edges of the filling. Holding the sides
  in place with your fingers, roll up the bottom edge of the tortilla
  over the filling and toward the top. Place the burrito seam side down
  in a pan or dish before heating or serving if necessary.
  
  Source: Sharon Maasdam, FoodDay home economist Typos by Dorothy
  Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Helpful Hints for Handling Phyllo Dough
 Categories: Pastry, Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------HANDLING PHYLLO DOUGH------------------------
 
  If possible, buy phyllo that has not been frozen. It can be found in
  the refrigerator section of most Greek and some Middle Eastern delis.
  
  Let the package come to room temperature before opening it. The
  sheets are easier to work with at room temperature.
  
  Remove the sheets you are working with and spray or brush them with
  oil, butter or nonstick cooking spray as quickly as possible. Keep
  the unused portions covered with a towel or plastic wrap. Work
  quickly; do not expose reserved sheets to the air or they will dry
  out and disintegrate.
  
  Sprinkle bread crumbs between the layers to keep them from sticking
  together when they bake; this is particularly helpful if you plan to
  refrigerate or freeze the recipe before baking.
  
  Some cooks work on a lightly dampened towel, but I find it makes the
  dough soggy.
  
  Source: Marlene Sorosky Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steps To Perfect Muffins
 Categories: Information, Muffins
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------MUFFIN TIPS-----------------------------
 
  Muffins are simple and quick to make. Most can be prepared in 10 to 15
  minutes and baked in 20 to 25 minutes. They are a perfect
  accompaniment for any meal.
  
  Preheat the oven. Most muffins are best when baked at 375 to 425
  degrees F. Make sure your oven rack is placed about one third up from
  the bottom.
  
  Prepare pans: Grease muffin cups well or line with cupcake liners. A
  nonstick baking pan can be sprayed with nonstick cooking spray.
  
  Assemble ingredients: Have things chopped and grated before you begin
  to mix. Have eggs, liquid and fat at room temperature if possible.
  
  Assemble utensils: you will need one large bowl, approximately 10
  inches in diameter; one medium bowl, approximately 8 inches in
  diamter; measuring cups for dry ingredients; a glass measuring cup to
  liquid ingredients; a set of measuring spoons; a wire whisk or fork;
  one spatula; and a large spoon.
  
  Measure ingredients: Add egg(s), liquids and oil or other fat to
  medium bowl. Measure dry ingredients into large bowl; stir well to
  combine.
  
  Mix: Add wet to dry ingredients, mixing just until the dry
  ingredients are moistened, 15 to 20 light strokes with a spoon. There
  should be some lumps. (Do not over mix or muffins will have elongated
  holes, called tunnels, and peaked tops; they will turn out tough and
  chewy.)
  
  Fill cups: Immediately spoon batter into muffin cups, filling between
  2/3 and 3/4 full. Fill any empty cups with a small amount of water.
  
  Bake: Place filled muffin cups in oven. To test for doneness, insert a
  wooden pick or the tip of a small sharp knife into the center of one
  muffin; if it comes out clean, the muffins are done. Muffins may also
  begin to pull away from the sides of the pan.
  
  Cool and serve: Let muffins cool a few minutes in the pan before
  carefully removing. Most muffins are best served warm.
  
  CHANGING MUFFINS TO QUICK BREAD The batters for muffins and quick
  breads are almost identical and are interchangeable. Muffins are
  baked around 400 degrees F from 18 to 25 minutes; quick breads are
  baked at 350 degrees F from 45 minutes to 1 hour and 15 minutes,
  depending on the amount of batter and the type of pan used. A basic
  recipe for a dozen muffins will fill and 8 or 9 inch loaf pan. fill
  bread pans or muffin cups 2/3 to 3/4 full. Test the center of the
  loaf or muffin for doneness by using a wooden pick or small knife; it
  it comes out clean, the loaf is done.
  
  Source: Sharom Maasdam, FoodDay home economist Typos by Dorothy
  Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CRISPY-COATED SALMON with Honey Lime Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 serving
 
      4    Pacific Salmon steaks,
           -approx 1" thick
    3/4 c  Bread crumbs
    1/3 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
      2 tb Parsley, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1    Egg, beaten
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Oil
           Honey Lime Sauce
    1/2 c  Light mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Plain yogurt
      2 tb Lime Juice
      2 ts Clear honey
    1/4 ts Curry Powder
 
  Description:
  
  Hot from the fry pan in a crisp and cheesy coating, Salmon steaks are
  especially nice matched with a cool and tangy make-ahead sauce.
  
  Instructions:
  
  Salmon steaks: Combine bread crumbs, Parmesan, and seasonings. Place
  seasoned crumbs on a large flat plate. Pour beaten egg onto second
  plate. Dip salmon in beaten egg and then in seasoned bread crumbs,
  pressing firmly. Refrigerate coated steaks 1/2 hr. to help coating
  adhere. Heat frying pan and butter and oil. When butter melts, fry
  steaks for 10 min. per inch of thickness, turning once halfway
  through cooking period. Place on paper towel to remove excess oil.
  Serve immediately with honey lime sauce if desired.
  
  Honey Lime Sauce: Combine all ingredients until smooth. Spoon into
  serving dish. Refrigerate, covered, until ready to serve. Garnish
  with twist of lime.
  
  Source/Author: Fisheries Council of B.C. / type Bob Shiells
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Pacific Salmon
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Information, Seafood
      Yield: 1 salmon
 
      1    Whole salmon
 
  Description:
  
  Savour the smoky flavour of whole barbequed salmon.  Here's an easy
  handling technique.  Summer garden stuffing is a wonderful Salmon
  stuffing.
  
  Instructions:
  
  Rinse salmon under cold running water and pat dry inside and out.
  Sprinkle the cavity with salt, pepper, and lemon juice.  If desired
  stuff lightly, skewer and lace closed.  Rub generously with softened
  butter. Tear off double thickness of heavy duty foil as long as and
  at list twice the width of the salmon.  Oil one side.  Punch numerous
  pencil holes through the foil.  Over hot coals, place foil flat on
  grill, oiled side up. Place salmon on foil.  Measure at thickest
  point, allow 12 to 15 min. per inch total cooking time.  Halfway
  through the cooking time, gather long edges of foil together to form
  a "handle". Grip handle, flip salmon, reopen foil for rest of cooking
  time. Fork test for doneneess along both sides of the backbone at
  thickest point. Juices should run clear and flesh should be opaque.
  
  Source/Author: Fisheries council of B.C. / type Bob Shiells
  
  Notes:
  
  See Summer Garden Stuffing for a flavourful salmon stuffing.
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paste
 Categories: Kids
      Yield: 1 batch
 
    1/4 c  Water, boiling
    1/4 c  Flour
 
  Combine flour and boiling water in a saucepan.  Heat over low heat,
  stirring constantly, until shiny and thick.
  
  Store in covered container in refrigerator.
  Submitted By JILL PETERSEN   On    7-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Substitutes and Suggestions for Gluten Free Living #1
 Categories: Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Coarser meals and gluten
           -free or wheat free flours
           -need more leavening.
           * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
           It is advisable to use
           -2-1/2 tsp of baking powder
           -to each cup of coarse
           -flour.
 
  Never use soy flour alone; always use it in combination with another
  flour. When using gluten free flour especially, let the dough sit for
  1/2 to 1 hour or overnight in the refrigerator.  This softens it and
  produces a better finished product. Look for recipes which use a
  small amount of wheat flour in combination with another type of
  flour, such as cornmeal or oatmeal.  It is easier then to substitute
  another flour for the wheat flour. To avoid graininess in rice flour
  and cornmeal, mix with the liquid in recipes, bring to a boil and
  cool before mixing with other ingredients.
  
  Recipes calling for cake flours are especially adaptable since they
  usually do not depend upon gluten for their structure. If using
  celimix, try substituting 1/2 cup arrowroot flour or 1/2 cup
  buckwheat flour in place of 1/2 cup of the mix, then just use the
  recipe as per package directions. This makes a less crumbly loaf.
  Keep non wheat baked products in the refrigerator to lessen
  crumbliness. Some cookie and cake recipes can take unsifted rice
  flour substituted directly into the recipe. To make rice flour cakes
  more moist add a synthetic whipped cream powder to the dry
  ingredients and increase the liquid until the batter is 'wet' enough.
  Use gelatin as a binder in breads.  It works well in rice flour
  recipes. Soften the gelatin in half the water the recipe calls for,
  then heat it just enough to dissolve the gelatin.  Then add the
  gelatin mixture to the rest of the liquid and finish the recipe. Fill
  the smaller (neck) end of your turkey with stuffing made from
  allergen-free bread for the allergic member of the household.
  
  Binder for meat loaf and meat patties can be made of rice flour, or 1
  cup puffed rice to 1 pound of ground meat, or an egg, or instant
  mashed potatoes. Recipes not containing wheat need long, slow baking,
  expecially if egg and milk are not used.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Substitutes and Suggestions for Gluten Free Living #2
 Categories: Information, Allergy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           For cookies, mix wheat
           -starch and soy flour in
           -any proportion in the
           -amount called for in the
           -original recipe.
 
  Use your own allowed granola mix to replace nuts and give crunchiness
  to cookies. In recipes calling for milk or water, heat these liquids
  slightly before adding to dry ingredients. Shortening may also be
  melted in this warm liquid which will cut down on mixing times.
  
  For bread recipes, double the amounts called for and make several
  small loaves. They freeze well. Since the loaves dry out in about two
  day, cut your loaves into pieces before freezing and defrost these as
  needed.
  
  Use crushed cornflakes or crisp rice cereals for crumbing foods or in
  desserts such as apple crisps and pie crusts.  Use potato chips for
  casseroles. A banana blends ingredients together well.
  
  Batters made from flours other than wheat may appear much thinner or
  much thicker than batters made from wheat flours. Cakes made with
  substitute flours other than wheat tend to be dry.  The moisture can
  be preserved by icing the cake or by storing them tightly covered.
  
  Meat cookies can be quickly made by just mixing a jar of baby meat
  with rice or other pablum, and adding 1/2 tsp baking powder. Bake in
  moderate oven for about 10 minutes.
  
  The thickening sauces, gravies or puddings, substitute one of the
  following for 1 tbsp wheat flour: 1/2 tbsp cornstarch, 1/2 tbsp potato
  starch flour, 1/2 tbsp rice starch, 1/2 tbsp arrowroot starch, 2 tsp
  quick cooking tapioca, 2 tsp tapioca flour.
  
  Wheat free spaghettie and noodles are available in specialty stores.
  Chinese bean threads are an acceptable substitute for spaghetti, as is
  spaghetti squash. And equal amount of frozen french fries may be
  substituted in a casserole to replace macaroni, spaghetti or noodles.
  
  To bread fish, chops and chicken, dip meat into rice flour, diluted
  evaporated milk, then into allowed crumbs.  Refrigerate one hour
  before cooking. You can make your own 'breading' mixture.  Mix 1 cup
  of recommended flour, 1 cup allowed bread crumbs, 1 tsp seasoned
  salt, 1/4 tsp pepper, 1/4 tsp spice. Keep in plastic bags in the
  refrigerator or freezer. Hold meat together in patties or meat loaf
  with cooked oatmeal, grated nuts or potato.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: How to Make Consomm
 Categories: Information, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 info
 
           No ingredients
 
  A good consomm depends on a very rich stock. Winoy, watery stocks
  won't work. Make your stock trong enough by using extra amounts of
  fresh meaty bones or aromatic vegetables. You can also reduce a
  finished stock by boiling gently to concentrate flavor. But don't
  cook it down too much or it will taste flat and dull. Starting out
  extra-strong is crucial because the very things that give stock
  flavor all those tiny particles thatalso make it murky  will be
  removed during the clarification. Skimming a stock regularly while it
  simmers will also produce a clearer, better-flavored stock.
  
  The transformation from cloudy stock to clear soup is carried out by
  the proteins in a mixture called a clearmeat  egg whites, some ground
  or chopped meat (except when making vegetarian consomm), and some
  aromatic vegetables and seasonings for flavor. When the stock and the
  clearmeat are heated, the particles in the stock coagulate with the
  egg white and meat protein. In effect, the stock is filtered. You can
  also add tomatoes to the clearmeat; their acid will help the
  coagulation, but they'll darken the consomm slighlty.
  
  Make clearmeat by first chopping up onions, celery, carrots, and the
  principal flavoring ingredient (seafood, chicken, beef, or mushrooms
  depending on what kind of consomm you're making). Mix this with egg
  whites, salt and pepper and process it in a food processor until very
  fine. You can use egg whites alone, but the other ingredients boost
  and fine-tune the flavor of the finished consomm. Seasonings such as
  salt and pepper are added to the clearmeat because you don't want to
  add them to a finished, perfectly clear consomm. The stock itself
  should also be well seasoned.
  
  The clarification process begins byu whisking about two cups of cool
  or warm stock into the clearmeat and then adding this mixture to the
  rest of the stock. If you've just made your stock and it's still hot,
  take extra care to whisk the stock, a little a time, thoroughly with
  the clearmeat so the heat doesn't coagulate the eggs too soon.
  
  The next step is to bring the whole thong to a gentle simmer over high
  heat, stirring constantly and gently to prevent the clearmeat from
  settling at the bottom of the pot and burning  which will ruin
  everything. A good tool to use is a long-handled spatula or
  flat-ended spoon that will scrape the bottom of the pot. Don't rush
  this stage if the clearmeat cooks too quickly, it won't take in all
  of the suspended particles and thoroughly clarify the stock.
  
  When the stock reaches a boil, immediately turn down the heat as low
  as possible while still maintaining a gentle simmer. Stop stirring.
  The clearmeat will gradually coagulate and rise to the top as a crust
  called the "raft". The raft acts as a filter, trapping all the tiny
  suspended particles as they bubble up through it. Use a ladle or a
  large spoon to poke a hole in the raft, called a chimney, if a hole
  doesn't form naturally. The raft will set up better if you baste it
  occasionally by ccarefully ladling some stock over it. Don't let the
  stock boil, which will break up the raft and ruin the clarification
  of the consomm.
  
  After the raft forms, let the stock simmer gently, undisturbed, for
  about 20 minutes, or until perfectly clear and richly flavored. If
  the consomm isn't clear after 30 minutes of simmering, most likely
  the raft has broken up or has stuck to the bottom of the pot. In this
  case, strain the stock, discard the raft, and begin by making a fresh
  clearmeat mixture using the same stock.
  
  Now the trick is to retrieve the crystal-clear consomm without mixing
  up the raft. Just work slowly so you can control the liquids and
  solids separately. Line a sieve with a clean, damp, lint-free cloth.
  Ladle the consomm through the lined sieve. Don't try to force the
  liquid through the sieve, which will only cloud the consomm. When you
  get down to the bottom of the pot, tilt it over the sieve to pour out
  all of the free-running consomm; use the ladle to keep the raft from
  falling out of the pot. Throw away the  raft and set the consomm
  aside to cool, preferably using an ice-bath.
  
  Remove any traces of fat from the consomm by blotting the surface with
  paper towels. A well-made consomm will be fat-free. It will keep for
  three days in the refrigerator and up to three months in the freezer.
  
  by Irving Shelby Smith Fine Cooking June-July 1995
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On    6-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Adding Accents to Consomm
 Categories: Information, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 info
 
           No ingredients
 
  Choose a final seasoning and garnish to make it even more intriguing
  and attrractive. Almost any ingredient is possible as an accent to
  consomm, as long as you like the way the flavors, textures, and
  colors work with the pale, clear liquid.
  
  Cook garnishes ahead so their flavors stay distinct from the flavor
  of the consomm. And some things, like pasta or beans, would absorb
  too much consomm during cooking. Use only non-fat methods to cook
  your garnishes (boiling, steaming) because any fat used in cooking
  will ruin the clarity of the consomm. Two exceptions to the cook
  ahead rule are peeled, seeded, and diced tomatoes or sliced fresh
  truffles; both are soft enough to go straight into the liquid. Here
  are some other ideas:
  
  ~ Infuse the consomm by steeping with fresh herbs or spices: rosemary,
  tarragon, lemongrasss, saffron.
  
  ~ Flavor the broth before clarification with ground spices (adding
  them to the finished consomm would make it cloudy): Indian garam
  masala, Chinese five-spice.
  
  ~ Vegetables cut in neat julienne, tiny dice, or parisienne (pea-sized
  balls made with a tiny melon baller), small asparagus tips, fresh
  peas, tiny mushrooms.
  
  ~ Dried beans and legume: black beans, black-eyed peas, navy beans,
  adzuki beans, lentils,
  
  ~ Pastas, stuffed or unstuffed: totellini, ravioli, wontons, bow-ties,
  orzo.
  
  ~ Grain like pearl barley or wild rice.
  
  ~ Delicate slices of meat, chicken or fish, either the same typw as
  the consomm or a different type for contrast.
  
  ~ Small shellfish: shrimp, clams, scallops, mussels, lobster claws.
  
  ~ Last minute accents: blanched strips of citrus zest, edible
  flowers, or a few drops of flavored oil.
  
  by Irving Shelby Smith Fine Cooking June-July 1995
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On    6-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Sorbets at a Glance
 Categories: Information, Fruit, Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 info
 
           No ingredients
 
  :Fruit        Preparation to Yield     Sugar   Lemon    Alcohol
                2 Cups Puree or Juice            Juice
  :                                      -----   -----    ------------
  
  :Apple        Use 2 cups cider.        3/4 c   2 tbs    1 tbs vodka,
                                         plus             rum or
                                         1 tbs            apple brandy
  :
  :Blueberry    Puree 2 cups berries     1 cup   2 tbs    1 tbs vodka
                with  cup cold water
                until smooth.
  :
  :Grapefruit,  Grate 2 tsp zest from    1 cup   None     1 tbs vodka
  :red          two large grapefruit;    plus
                combine with 1 cups      1 tbs
                fresh-squeezed juice
                and  cup cold water.
  :
  :Lemon        Grate 2 tsp zest from    1       None     1 tbs vodka
                three large lemons;      cups
                combine with  cup
                fresh-squeezed juice
                and 1 cups cold water.
  :
  :Mango        Peel and pit three       3/4 c   2 tbs    1 tbs vodka
                medium mangoes. Puree    plus
                flesh with  cup cold     1 tbs
                water until smooth.
  :
  :Orange       Grate 2 tsp zest from    1 cup   1 tbs    1 tbs vodka
                five large oranges;      minus            or
                combine with 2 cups      1 tbs            orange brandy
                fresh-squeezed juice.
  :
  :Peach        Peel and pit six medium  1 cup   2 tbs    1 tbs vodka
                peaches. Puree flesh     minus            or
                with  cup cold water     1 tbs            peach brandy
                until smooth.
  :
  :Pineapple    Stem, peel, quarter,     3/4 c   1 tbs    1 tbs vodka
                and core one small                        or rum
                pineapple. Puree flesh
                until smooth. Strain
                out stringy fibers.
  :
  :Raspberry    Puree three cups         1 cup   1 tbs    1 tbs vodka
  :Blackberry   berries with  cup cold                    or
  :Strawberry   water until smooth,                       berry liqueur
                Strain out seeds.
  :
  :Watermelon   Peel and seed 2 pounds   1 cup   2 tbs    1 tbs vodka
                fruit. Puree flesh       minus            or Campari
                until smooth.            1 tbs
  :
                     Sugar Content in Selected Fruits
  
  The sugar content in fresh fruit differs according to the specific
  variety (some apples are naturally sweeter than others) and ripeness
  (ripe fruit contains more sugar than unripe fruit). Below is a list
  of the average sugar content in some common fruits based on figures
  in Harold McGee's The Curious Cook. To make sorbets with fruits not
  listed in the chart above, find a fruit in the chart with a
  corresponding sugar level and acidity and replace one fruit with the
  other.
  
  :     Apple          13%       Mango          11%
  :     Apricot         9%       Orange         11%
  :     Blackberry      8%       Papaya          8%
  :     Blueberry      11%       Peach           9%
  :     Cantaloupe      7%       Pear           10%
  :     Cherry         14%       Pineapple      13%
  :     Grapefruit      6%       Plum           11%
  :     Honeydew       10%       Raspberry       7%
  :     Lemon           2%       Strawberry      7%
  :     Lime            1%       Watermelon      9%
  
  Cook's Illustrated August 1995
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On    6-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Frosting 2
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Cream cheese -- at room
           -temperature
      6 tb Unsalted butter -- at room
           -temperature
  1 1/4 c  Confectioner's sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  In a large bowl, combine the cream cheese and butter. Using an
  electric mixer set on medium-high speed, beat until smooth. Reduce
  the speed to low, add the confectioner's sugar and again beat until
  smooth. Beat in the vanilla extract until well blended.
  
  To store, cover and refrigerate for up to 1 week. Bring to room
  temperature before using. Makes about 2 3/4 cups.
  
  Variations: Almond flavor: Add 1 1/2 teaspoons almond extract with the
  vanilla extract.
  
  Orange flavor:  Add 2 tablespoons undiluted thawed, frozen orange
  juice concentrate and 1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange zest with the
  vanilla extract.
  
  Coconut flavor:  Bring 1 can sweetened cream of coconut to a boil in a
  large, heavy saucepan. Reduce heat to low and simmer without stirring
  for 10 minutes. You should have about 1 cup. Remove from the heat and
  refrigerate for 1 hour until cool, then beat the cooled coconut cream
  into the finished frosting. Add 1 cup toasted sweetened shredded
  coconut and beat until fully combined. This will yield 4 cups
  frosting. For an easier coconut-flavored frosting, beat 1 1/2
  teaspoons imitation coconut extract and the 1 cup toasted coconut
  into the finished plain cream cheese frosting.
  
  From Williams-Sonoma Kitchen Library Typed for you by Marjorie
  Scofield 6/23/95
  
  Recipe By     : From Cakes, Cupcakes, Cheesecakes
  
  From: Marjorie Scofield               Date: 06-30-95 (23:33) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mongolian Beef 2
 Categories: Meats, Asian, Wok
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Boneless, trimmed, beef
           -filet, sliced
    1/2 ts "five-spice" powder
      1    Egg white
      2    Cloves garlic, slivered
      4    Thin slices of fresh ginger
           -root
      3 ts Cornstarch
      6 tb Sherry or rice wine
      2 tb Water
     10    Green onions, including
           -tops
      2 tb Salad oil
 
  Mix beef in bowl with five-spice powder, egg white, garlic, ginger
  root, 1 teaspoon of the cornstarch, 1 teaspoon of the soy sauce and
  let stand 10 minutes.  meanwhile blend rest of the cornstarch, soy
  sauce, sherry, and water.  Cut white part of each onion in half
  crosswise. Cut sections from green tops, about 1 1/2 inches long.
  Heat oil in a wide frying pan or wok over highest heat. Add meat
  mixture and cook, stirring, until meat browns slightly.  Return to
  bowl.  Add to pan the cornstarch-soy sauce mixture and white part of
  onion.  Cook, stirring until mixture thickens. Add meat and green
  tops and heat, stirring, until simmering. Serve at once. Serves 4.
  From: Ron Allard                      Date: 07-04-95 (10:05) (164)
  Fido: Home Co
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple-Glazed Roast Pork
 Categories: Meats, Crockpot, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lb Pork loin roast
      6    Apples
    1/4 c  Apple juice
      3 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Ginger; ground
 
  Rub roast with salt and pepper.  Brown pork roast under broiler to
  remove excess fat; drain well.
  
  Core and quarter apples.  Place apple quarters in bottom of crockpot.
  Place roast on top of apples.  Combine apple juice, brown sugar, and
  ginger. Spoon over top surface of roast, moistening well.  Cover and
  cook on Low 10-12 hours, until done.
  
  Source: _Rival Crock-Pot Cooking_ Shared by Pattye Zensen From:
  Michele Stewart                 Date: 01-27-95
  Submitted By GRANT AMES   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Beef Barbecue
 Categories: Crockpot, Meats, Sandwich
      Yield: 20 servings
 
MMMMM------------------FREDDIE JOHNSON  MDTF77A-----------------------
      3 lb Ground beef, lean
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      5    Celery ribs, finely chopped
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      2 tb Prepared mustard
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      1 ts Mustard seed
  3 1/2 c  Catsup
 
  Brown meat in slow cooker or skillet on top of range on medium heat.
  Remove excess grease.  Transfer cooking pot to heating base or
  transfer meat to slow cooker. Add all remaining ingredients stirring
  well to blend. Cover and cook at setting #3 (for West Bend Slow
  Cooker) or low in others for 6 - 8 hours. Serve on buns or over hot
  dogs for chili dogs. Source: West Bend Slow Cooking for Fast Meals
  From: Rich Bossard Date: 14 May 95 Meal-Master Format Recipes
  (Mailing List) - Submitted By GRANT AMES   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti Sauce Italiano
 Categories: Crockpot, Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 lb Italian sausage; bulk
      1 c  Onion; chopped
      2    Garlic clove; minced
      2 cn Tomatoes; 16 oz, cut-up
      2 cn Tomato sauce; 8 oz
      2 cn Mushrooms; 4 oz, chopped and
           -drained
      1 c  Green pepper; chopped
      4 tb Tapioca; quick-cooking
      2    Bay leaves
      1 ts Basil, crushed & dry
      1 ts Oregano, crushed & dry
    1/4 ts Pepper
        ds Salt
           Hot cooked spaghetti
 
  In a skillet cook ground beef, sausage, onion, and garlic until meat
  is brown and onion is tender; drain off fat.
  
  Meanwhile in crockpot, combine undrained tomatoes, tomato sauce,
  mushrooms, green pepper, tapioca, bay leaves, oregano, basil, pepper,
  and salt. Stir in browned meat mixture.
  
  Cover; cook on low-heat setting for 10-12 hours or high heat setting
  for 5-6 hours.  Remove bay leaves.  Serve over hot spaghetti.  Makes
  8-10 servings.
  
  Source:  Better Homes and Gardens New Crockery Cookbook
  
        Terrie Peterson
  Submitted By GRANT AMES   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Straight-From-The-Freezer Beef Stew
 Categories: Crockpot, Soup/stew, Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Frozen
           -stew meat
      1    1 -3/8-ounce package
           -dry onion soup mix
      1    1 1/2 -ounce package
           -brown gravy mix
      1    12-ounce can beer
      1    1O-ounce package
           -frozen mixed vegetables
      1    4-ounce can mushrooms,
           -drained
 
  In CROCK-POT combine soup and gravy mixes with  beer. Add frozen stew
  meat, vegetables and mushrooms, pushing down into liquid to moisten.
  Cover and cook on Low 10 to 14 hours. From Rival Crock-pot cook book,
  date unknown From: Donna Ransdell                  Date: 01-17-95
  Submitted By GRANT AMES   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Potato Salad [7-35]
 Categories: Vegetables, Salads, Potatoes, Aust/german
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes
      6    Slices of bacon
    3/4 c  Chopped onions
    3/4 c  Water
    1/3 c  Wine vinegar
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
        ds Pepper
    1/2 c  Celery seed
 
  FAVORITE RECIPES FROM OUR BEST COOKS page 35
  
  Boil pototoes in jackets; when done peel and cut in cubes; fry bacon
  which has been cut in cubes and saute onions in the bacon fat until
  golden brown. Blend in dry ingredients and cook over low heat until
  smoothly and bubbly. Remove and stir in water and vinegar, bring to
  boil, stirring constantly; boil one min. Pour over cubed potatoes and
  mix carefully.
  
  Posted by Ken Strei Submitted By KEN STREI   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paulette's German Potato Salad
 Categories: Salads, Aust/german, Potatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Boiling potatoes
    1/3 ts Freshly ground pepper
      1 ea Medium onion, grated
    2/3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Salad oil
      6 ea Slices crisp bacon,
           Crumbled (optional)
 
  1> Boil the potatoes in lightly salted water.  When they are cool
  enough to handle, peel them and slice them into a bowl. Add the
  pepper and grated onion. 2> Put the water, vinegar, salt, sugar, and
  oil in a small pan and bring it to the boil. Pour over the potatoes
  and mix well. Let sit 10 minutes, then mix again. Cover the bowl and
  chill the salad. Before you serve it, pour off any liquid that has
  accumulated in the bottom of the bowl and top with crumbled bacon, if
  you are using it. --> Makes about 5 cups. Source - The Brooklyn
  Cookbook by Lyn Stallworth and Rod Kennedy, Jr. Published by Knopf.
  Submitted By KEN STREI   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kuepker's German Potato Salad
 Categories: Vegetables, Potatoes, Salads, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Potatoes (red) boiled with
           -skins on
      1 lb Bacon
      1 lg White onion
      1    Doz eggs
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
           Vinegar to taste
 
    Peel potatoes.  Put potatoes, and eggs in a bowl and chop into small
  pieces.  Fry bacon, drain and save grease in pan.  Cut bacon into
  small pieces. add onions, salt, pepper and vinegar to bacon grease.
  Bring to boil, pour enough over the potatoes to moisten.
  
    Can be served hot or cold.
  
  Source Adrian Kuepker's grandmother's Old Country recipe as dictated
  to Jean Cody 10/27/93
  Submitted By KEN STREI   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Potato Salad BC
 Categories: Salads, Potatoes, Aust/german
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6    Slices of Bacon
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      2 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Celery seed
      1 ds Pepper
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      6 c  Sliced cooked (red) potatoes
 
  Cook bacon until crisp.  Drain and crumble to bits.  Reserve 1/4 cup
  of the drippings.  Cook onion in drippings until tender.  Blend in
  flour, salt, celery seed, pepper, water and vinegar.  Cook, stirring
  often, until thick and bubbling.
  
  Add bacon and potatoes, tossing lightly.  Heat thoroughly, approx. 10
  minutes.  Trim with parsley and pimiento if desired.
  
  Enjoy! - Jeff Duke (Who could "enjoy Jeff Duke?" Reposted by Bud Cloyd
  
  From: Bud Cloyd                       Date: 20 Sep 94
  Submitted By KEN STREI   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polish Cabbage Rolls #2
 Categories: Polish, Vegetables, Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Cabbage
  1 1/2 lb Ground meat
      1 c  Cooked rice
      1    Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Bouillon
      1 c  Tomato sauce
 
  Remove core from cabbage, leaving the head in one piece.  Cook in
  large pot until outer leaves can be easily peeled off.  Drain and
  cool cabbage leaves.  Set aside leaves and chop rest of cabbage and
  place in shallow baking dish.  Cook meat, rice, onions, milk and
  seasoning. Mix. Spoon meat mixture on cabbage leaves and roll.  Mix
  bouillon and tomato sauce and pour over cabbage.  Bake for 1 hour or
  until cabbage is soft. Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pierogi Pizza - Polish
 Categories: Polish, Main dish, Pizza, Cheese/eggs, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Unbaked pizza shells
           Mashed potatoes
      1 lg Onion, diced
      1    Stick butter or oleo
      8 oz Cheddar cheese, grated
    1/2 lb Provolone cheese, grated
    1/2 lb Mozzarella cheese, grated &
           -mixed with Provolone
 
  Saute onion in butter, stir into potatoes along with cheddar cheese
  and refrigerate to let flavor go through.  Coat pizza shells with
  potato mixture.  Top with Provolone and Mozzarella cheese mixture and
  bake until shells are baked and cheese is melted.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Babka
 Categories: Polish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 babka
 
      1 pk Active dry yeast
        pn Sugar
    1/4 c  Warm water
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter, melted
    1/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Almond extract
    3/4 c  Warm milk
      3    Eggs
      4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
           -or thereabouts
      2 tb Unsalted butter, for
           -brushing dough
      3 tb Vanilla powdered sugar or
           -powdered sugar

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Dry cottage cheese or
           -ricotta
    1/3 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Sour cream or creme fraiche
  1 1/2 tb Flour
      1    Egg
      1    Lemon, zest only
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      3 tb Currants, plunged in
      2 tb Rum or Cognac for 1/2 hour
 
  1. Sprinkle yeast and sugar over warm water in a small bowl and stir
  to dissolve. Let stand until foamy, about 10 mintes.
  
  2. In a large bowl, combine butter, sugar, salt, vanilla, almond,
  milk, eggs, and 1 cup flour. Beat until smooth with a whisk. Add
  yeast mixture. Beat 3 minutes or until smooth. Add flour, 1/2 cup at
  a time with a wooden spoon until a soft dough has formed.
  
  3. Turn dough out onto a lighly floured surface and knead until
  smooth and silky, about 5 minutes. Be sure dough remains soft. Place
  in a greased bowl, turn once to grease top, and cover with plastic
  wrap. Let rise in a warm area until until doubled, about 1 1/2 hours.
  Meanwhile combine filling ingredients in a bowl, beat until creamy.
  
  4. Gently deflate dough, turn out onto a lightly floured board and
  roll or pat into a 10 x 12 inch rectangle. Brush with melted butter.
  Spread with filling, leaving a 1/2 inch border all around the dough.
  Roll up jelly roll fashion and pinch seams. Holding one end, twist
  dough about 6 to 8 times to make a rope. Form into a flat coil and
  place in a well-greased 10 to 12 cup Kugelhupf mold or tube pan.
  Pinch ends together and adjust dough to lie evenly in the pan, no
  more than 2/3 full. Cover loosely with plastic wrap and let rise till
  even with the top of the pan, about 45 minutes.
  
  5. Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. oven for 40 to 45 minutes, or
  until golden brown and a cake tester comes out clean. There will be a
  hollow sound when tapped. Let stand for 5 minutes in the pan, then
  transfer from baking pan to a rack to cool completely. Let stand 4
  hours or overnight, wrapped in plastic before slicing.
  
  6. Dust with powdered sugar or drizzle powdered sugar glaze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamer Polish Sausage Supper
 Categories: Potatoes, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Potatoes; peeled and cut
           -into 1/2-inch pieces
      1 lb Smoked polish sausage
     16 oz Can sauerkraut
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Caraway seed
 
  Place potatoes in steamer basket. Add 1/2 cup water to reservoir,
  cover and steam from 10 to 12 minutes.
  
  Slice sausage into 1/2-inch pieces. Place sausage in rice bowl. top
  with steamed potatoes. Cover with sauerkrat and sprinkle seasonings
  on top. Add 2 cups water to reservoir, cover and steam from 38 to 39
  minutes.
  
  Serves 4
  
  Total steaming time: 48 to 52 minutes.
  
  Source: Rival Automatic Steamer And Rice Cooker Booklet Typos by
  Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prickly Pear Ice
 Categories: Native amer, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Freshly squeezed lemon juice
    1/2 c  Sugar
  2 3/4 c  Prickly pear juice
      2    Cactus pads (nopales),
           -scraped, trimmed and cut
           -into Indian motif shapes,
           -for garnish
 
  In a stainless steel or glass saucepan, bring the water and lemon
  juice to a boil over medium-high heat.  Reduce the heat to low, add
  the sugar, and stir constantly until dissolved.  Remove from the heat
  and stir in the prickly pear juice.   Let cool.
  
  Pour the liquid into a glass or stainless steel baking pan (do not use
  aluminum because the acid in the prickly pear juice will react with
  it) and place it in the freezer.  Stir the liquid every 20 minutes
  until it has frozen into grainy, magenta-colored ice crystals.  The
  process should take about 1 1/2 hours, depending on the temperature
  of your freezer.
  
  Serve with cactus pad garnish. ******************
  
  From "Native American Cooking," by Lois Ellen Frank
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruited Ice Cream Dessert
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Kids
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream
  1 1/3 c  Fruit, diced & drained
      1 lg Package Jello; any flavor
           Boiling water
 
       Dissolve Jello in 2 cups boiling water.  Add 1 quart vanilla ice
  cream by spoonfuls, stirring until ice cream is melted. Add fruit.
  Chill until set, about 30 minutes. Source: Jello
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zaporozhste Yogurt Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Low cal/fat, Ukrainian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Yellow mustard
      2 ea Bay leaves
      1 c  Carrots shredded
      1 ts Dill fresh, chopped
      2 lg Cloves garlic, crushed
      1 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Thyme
  1 1/2 c  Yogurt,plain
  1 1/2 c  Plain breadcrumbs
      4    Skinless, boneless chicken
           -breasts
           -salt and pepper to taste
 
  Put yogurt in medium-sized bowl.  Add lemon juice, mustard, garlic,
  and other spices. Mix thoroughly. Place breadcrumbs in separate bowl.
  Rinse chicken and pat dry.  Dip each breast first into yogurt
  mixture, covering top and bottom. Next, roll each piece in
  breadcrumbs, coating the chicken. Bake in a 350 degree F pre-heated
  oven for 45 minutes. Serve with either rice or noodles. Oridin:
  Illyana Zhurinskaya, Kiev, Ukraine circa 1995 Submitted By DON
  HOUSTON   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato-Fish Cossack Stew
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Soup/stew, Seafood, Ukrainian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 ea Onions, chopped
      2 ea Garlic cloves minced
      1 tb Oil
     36 ea Tomatoes peeled
           -OR
     16 oz Canned stewed tomatos
      8 oz Tomato sauce
      1    Potatoes
      2 tb Dill freshly chopped
      1 ts Thyme leaves
      1 tb Lemon juice fresh
      3 ea Bay leaves
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Parsley chopped
      2 lb Fish boneless & cubed 1/2"
 
  Cook onion and garlic in oil till tender.  Cut up tomatoes.  Peel and
  chop potato. Stir in undrained tomatoes, tomato sauce, potato,
  dill,bay leaves, thyme, and pepper. Bring to boil, reduce heat,
  cover, and simmer 30 minutes Stir in fish, lemon juice,& parsley.
  Bring to boil, reduce heat, cover & simmer 3-5 minutes more. Origin:
  Ludymila Rusteshenko, Odessa, Ukraine, circa 1995
  Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kletsky - Apple Dumplings
 Categories: Ukrainian, Desserts, Fruit, East europe
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 ea Apples, peeled, cored, &
           - finely chopped
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ea Lemon;juice & grated rind
      1 ea Egg, beaten
    3/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
    1/2 ts Cinnamon ground fine
 
  Pour the lemon juice over the apples and  kix in well. Squeeze thje
  apples gently to dry. Mix the apples with the lemon rind, cinnamon,
  sugar, egg, & bread crumbs. Chill in refrigerator for 20-30 minutes
  Make balls of this mixture 1" in size Drop them in a boiling pot of
  slightly salted water. Cook until they rise to the surface then
  remove with a slotted spoon. Cool to room temperature. These may be
  added to a cold fruit soup or eaten with many other foods. Origin:
  Ilona Zhiniskaya, Kiev, Ukraine, circa 1995 Submitted By DON HOUSTON
   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ukrainian Cold Fruit Soup
 Categories: Ukrainian, East europe, Soup/stew, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Water, cold
      1 lb Apples, cored, peeled &
           - cubed 3/4"
      1 lb Pears, cored, peeled, &
           - cubed 3/4"
    1/2 lb Cheeries, pitted
    1/2 lb Plums, pitted
    1/2 lb Peaches, peeled, pitted, &
           -cubed 3/4"
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs, soft & fresh
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
  1 1/2 tb Grated lemon rind
    1/4 c  Raspberry jam or preserves
    1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  White wine, sweet
      1 c  Cranberry juice
 
  Put the water, cinnamon, lemon juice bread crumbs, and the lemon rind
  in large pot. Bring to a boil, then add the fruits, reduce heat, and
  simmer for 25 minutes. Puree this mixture in a blender then add the
  jam, wine, & cranberry juice. Mix well then refrigerate. Serve when
  well chilled. Note: Apple dumplings may be served in this soup.
  Origin: Natalya Viktorova, Dneprpetrovsk, Ukraine, circa 1995
  Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackened Redfish #1
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    8-10oz redfish fillets
    3/4 lb Unsalted butter, melted

MMMMM-----------------------SEASONING MIX----------------------------
      1 tb Sweet paprika
      1 ts Onion powder
      1 ts Ground cayenne pepper
    3/4 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Dried oregano leaves
  2 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Garlic powder
    3/4 ts Ground white pepper
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
 
  NOTE: Fish fillets (preferably redfish, pompano or tilefish) cut
  about 1/2 inch thick.  Redfish and pompano are ideal for this method
  of cooking. If tilefish is used, you may have to split the fillets in
  half horizontally to have proper thickness.  If you can't get any of
  these fish, salmon steaks or red snapper fillets can be substituted.
  In any case, the fillets or steaks must not be more than 3/4 inch
  thick.
  
     Heat a large cast-iron skillet over very high heat until it is
  beyond the smoking stage and you see white ash in the skillet bottom
  (the skillet cannot be too hot for this dish), at least 10 minutes.
  (FT - this recipe is *NOT* for the faint of heart)
  
     Meanwhile, pour 2 Tablespoons melted butter in each of 6 small
  ramekins; set aside and keep warm.  Reserve the remaining butter in
  its skillet. Heat the serving plates in a 250F oven.
  
     Thoroughly combine the seasoning mix ingredients in a small bowl.
  Dip each fillet in the reserved melted butter so that both sides are
  well coated; then sprinkle seasoning mix generously and evenly on
  both sides of the fillets, patting by hand.  Place in the hot skillet
  and pour 1 teaspoon melted butter on top of each fillet (be careful,
  as the butter may flame up).  Cook, uncovered, over the same high
  heat until the underside looks charred, about 2 minutes (the time
  will vary according to the fillet's thickness and the heat of the
  skillet). Turn the fish over and again pour 1 teaspoon butter on top;
  cook until fish is done, about 2 minutes more. Repeat with remaining
  fillets. Serve each fillet while piping hot.
  
     To serve, place one fillet and a ramekin of butter on each heated
  serving plate. I had this in K Pauls Restaurant in New Orleans. It is
  a taste experience you will never forgive yourself for missing should
  you ever be lucky enough to find yourself in N'awlins and you don't
  go to K Paul's and order this.  Even people who don't like fish love
  this dish.
  
  From Chef Paul Prudhomme's Louisiana Kitchen, published by William
  Morrow and Company, Inc.  ISBN 0-688-02847-0 Submitted By MICHELLE
  HOWE   On 07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Frijoles Rancheros
 Categories: Vegetables, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 md Tomato raw
      1 md Green pepper
      2 oz Canned chilies
      1 c  Onion chopped
      1 md Garlic clove crushed
      1 ts Oregano
     30 oz Pinto Beans canned
      2 tb Fresh cilantro
 
  Dice the pepper, tomatoes, onions and chilies. Add a little oil to a
  medium heated fry pan. Add tomatoes, bell pepper, chiles, onion,
  garlic and oregano. Saute stirring occasionally for about 5 minutes.
  Adjust heat to low and mix in the beans. Cook about 15 minutes
  stirring often. Serve and sprinkle with cilantro. ---end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Tex-Mex Beans
 Categories: Vegetables, Tex/mexican, Chilies
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      1 c  Onion chopped
      1 tb Garlic clove minced
     15 oz Garbanzo canned
     15 oz Kidney beans canned
     16 oz Tomato Sauce, canned
      4 oz Canned chilies
      2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
 
  In a 10 inch fry pan combine the water, onion and garlic. Bring to a
  boil; reduce heat to simmer cover and cook for 5 minutes until onions
  are tender. Stir in the beans, tomato sauce, green chili peppers,
  chili powder and salt. Cover and simmer for about 10 minutes to heat
  all ingredients. In a separate bowl combine cornstarch with 1 tbs of
  water to smooth paste. Stir into the fry pan while stirring to
  thicken sauce. ---end Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Potato Soup
 Categories: Potatoes, Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 md Russet potato
      3 ea Celery stalks
      2 md Carrot
      6 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
      1 md Onion
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb All purpose flour
      1 c  Cream, heavy whipping
      1 tb Tarragon
    1/2 ts Thyme, ground
 
  Peel potatoes and dice into 1/2 inch cubes. Finely dice the celery
  stalks. Grate carrots or shred in food processor. Finely chop the
  onion. In a large skillet add a little olive oil and saute the onion
  for about 2 minutes. Add carrots and celery and continue for another
  5 minutes or until the onions are soft and translucent. Add the
  broth, potatoes, tarragon and thyme. Salt and pepper to taste. Bring
  to a slow boil, cover and cook for about 20 minutes until the
  potatoes are done. In a separate pan make a roux using the butter and
  flour. Add some broth from the potatoes if necessary to smooth. When
  potatoes are done stir in the roux and one cup heavy cream. Continue
  to cook on lower heat (do not let it boil once cream is added) for
  about 5 minutes to warm and blend flavors. If you use fresh tarragon
  use two Tbs. Option: Add some minced garlic during saute period for
  added flavor. ---end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Kabobs
 Categories: Kids, Bbq/grill, Fruit
      Yield: 1 varied
 
      1 ea Fresh pineapple, cored; cut
           -in 1/2-inch cubes
      2 lg Bananas; cut in 1/2" rounds
      3 md Kiwis; cut in 8 pieces

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SAUCE----------------------------
      2 sm Kiwis; peeled
      2 tb Honey
      1 tb Plain yogurt
 
    Evenly thread pieces of fruit (you should have about 24 of each) on
  4 to 8 metal or wood skewers, begining and ending with bananas to
  anchor the fruit.
    To make the sauce, puree kiwis in a food processor.  Add honey and
  yogurt, blend, and tranfer sauce to a small bowl.
    Serve kabobs with sauce alongside for dipping, or pour sauce on
  plates and place a kabob on top of each.
    200 cal, 1 g fat, 5% cal from fat, 2 g protein, 50 g carbohyrates,
  8 mg sodium, 0 mg cholesterol. Preparation time: 12 minutes Servings:
  8 children's or 4 adult's Source: Sesame Street Parents, July/August
  1995 Typos by Elizabeth Wood.
  Submitted By ELIZABETH WOOD   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Milk Sponge Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Grease and flour
           Beat with rotary beater
           -until
           Very light
           Beat in
           Beat in
           Sift together and beat in
           -very
           Quickly
      9 ea Square pan
      2 ea Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 tb Butter, melted in
    1/2 c  Hot milk (heated 'til the
           Butter melts
      1 c  Sifted flour
      1 ts Baking powder
 
  Immediately pour into prepared pan.  Bake at 350 until cake tests
  done. (25 mins?) Cool. split and fill with raspberry or apricot jam,
  dust top with confectioners sugar. or use for Boston Cream Pie. note
  1 1/2 recipe makes two 8 or 9 inch layers. COURTESY OF THE HOMESTEAD
  (615)385-9421
  
  Submitted By MARGE CLARK   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ukrainian Steamed Cabbage Souffle
 Categories: Ukrainian, East europe, Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 ea Cabbage, large, with outer
           - leaves intact
      1 ea Onion, large,minced
      4 tb Butter
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 ts White pepper
      1 ts Marjoram
      3 ea Egg yolks
      5 ea Egg whites
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ea Garlic clove, minced
 
  Core cabbage and remove the outer leaves. Blanch these large outer
  leaves in boiling water for 5 minutes. Drain & set aside. Core the
  cabbage, cut into chunks, and put into a large pot. Pour the milk
  over the cabbage and simmer for 25 minutes or until the cabbage is
  tender. Saute the onion & garlic in butter. Mix the chopped cabbege,
  the onion & garlic, the butter from the sauteeing, bread crumbs, egg
  yolks, & the spices. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff but not
  dry, then fold them into the mixture. Spread the blanched cabbage
  leaves on a large cheese cloth. Be sure that they overlap and that
  the mixture will fit into the middle with plenty of room to spare.
  Heap the filling mixture in the center of the leaves. Fold the leaves
  up to cover the filling. Bring the corners of the cheese cloth
  together and tie them together with a cord. Place this bundle
  carefully into a colander, and place the colander into a deep pot
  over a few inches of water. Cover the pot so it seals Bring the pot
  to a boil and boil for 45 minutes. Remove the beundle form the
  colander. Untie the cheese cloth, place a large palte over the cabbge
  bundle, invert, and remove the cheese cloth. Serve by cutting the
  souffle into wedges. Origin: Alla Oleshky, Kiev, Ukraine, circa 1995
  Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ukrainian Liver Pate
 Categories: Meats, East europe, Ukrainian, Appetizers
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Liver *
      2 ea Onions, lg. thinly sliced
      1 ea Egg
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
    1/3 c  Butter not margerine
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      2 ea Bread slices minus crust
 
  Melt the butter in a skillet. Add the onions and fry until they are
  turning golden. At this point add the liver which has benn sliced
  into thin strips and cook for 10 minutes & remove form heat. Mix all
  of the ingredients with the onions and liver in a food processor.
  Chop in processor until a smooth textured mixture is achieved. Grease
  a 9" baking dish and spoon the mixture into it. Bake for 45 minutes
  in a pre-hetaed 450 degree F oven. Remove from oven and cool to room
  temperature. Note: This mixture may be turned into metal molds for
  baking or into individual custard cups as well. Origin: Verona
  Duvushenko, Kiev, Ukraine, circa 1995 Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On
   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cedar Plank Salmon
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Salmon fillet about 1 1/2
           -lbs
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      1    Lemon or orange, juice and
           -zest
      1 tb Basil, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper, freshly
           -ground
 
  Description:
  
  Baked on a cedar plank, this original recipe is steeped in flavour and
  aroma.  The plank should be a little longer and wider than the fillet.
  
  Preparation Time: 2 hrs.                 Cooking Time:
  
  Instructions:
  
  Barbecue Method:
  
  Marinate the salmon in the remaining ingredients.  Meanwhile soak a
  piece of untreated cedar plank in cold water for about 2 hours
  (weighting it with something heavy).  Place salmon on plank.  Put the
  plank directly on the barbecue grill.  Close the lid and cook over
  medium heat for 20 minutes.
  
  Oven Method:
  
  Soak the plank as above, the place in a 450F heated oven for 5-10
  minutes. Remove the slamon from the mainade and bake on the plank
  until cooked, allowing about 10 minutes per inch thickness of fish.
  
  Source/Author: B.C. Salmon Marketing Council / typo Bob Shiells
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Potato Salad 4
 Categories: Diabetic, Aust/german, Salads, Side dish, Potatoes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 sl Bacon; crispy fried
  1 1/2 c  Cold water;
      3 tb Flour;
      1 md Onion;
      3 tb Sugar replacement;
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      6 md Potatoes; boiled sliced
 
  Remove excess grease from bacon with paper towel.  Break bacon into
  small pieces.  Blend cold water and flour.  Pour into saucepan.  Add
  onion, sugar replacement, and vinegar.   Heat, stirring, until
  thickened. Add bacon and potatoes while still from boiling and
  frying. Food Exchange per serving: 1 STARCH/BREAD EXCHANGE + 1 FAT
  EXCHANGE CAL: 113
  
  Source:  The Complete Diabetic Cookbook by Mary Jane Finsand Brought
  to you and yours via Nancy O'brion and her Meal-Master
  Submitted By MARGARET YOUNG   On   07-04-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Modenaceti Veal Scaloppine
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Butter
      4 oz Olive oil
      1 lb Veal cutlets (6-8 small
           -ones)
           Flour
      1 tb Balsamic vinegar
      1 c  Chicken broth
 
  Melt butter and oil together in a frying pan.  Dredge cutlets lightly
  in flour.  Fry over medium-high heat until lightly browned.  Slowly
  add vinegar, then chicken broth.  Allow to simmer 10-15 minutes or
  until gravy is thickened and veal is fully cooked.  You can use
  chicken breast or pork cutlets for this if you pound them enough.
  
  Recipe from Michael Loo.  Converted to Meal-Master format by Arthur
  Cloninger.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Patio Cooler
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 3 quarts
 
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Tea, strongly brewed
      4 c  Orange juice
      2 c  Pineapple juice
     28 oz Ginger ale, chilled
      1    Orange, sliced
 
  Combine sugar and water in pan over low heat until dissolved.  Cool.
  Combine with tea and fruit juices.  Chill thoroughly.  Just before
  serving, stir in ginger ale.  Garnish with orange slices.
  
  Recipe from Denise Rounds.  Converted to Meal-Master format by Arthur
  Cloninger.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese-style Soft-Shell Crabs
 Categories: Asian, Chinese, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 lg Soft-shell crabs
           -OR_
      6 sm Soft-shell crabs
      1 lg Handful scallions, slivered
      1 sm Handful fresh ginger,
           -slivered
           Soy sauce
           Sherry
           Sesame oil
 
  Prepare crabs for cooking: thaw, rinse, pat dry, remove apron and
  gills. Sprinkle with cornstarch.
  
  Make sure that you are wearing long sleeves and the kitchen fan is on
  full blast.
  
  In a large skillet heat a couple tablespoons of peanut oil to the
  smoking point.  Toss in the crabs.  Immediately clap the lid on the
  skillet; when the initial clatter dies down, remove the lid or put it
  ajar.  Cook until crisp, maybe 2 minutes.  Flip and cook the other
  side.  When they're done (? 4 minutes, I haven't any idea ?), toss in
  ginger and scallions; stir fry for a minute.  Add soy and sherry to
  taste (I use about 1 tablespoon of each) and shake skillet around
  over high heat until sauce is mostly absorbed.
  
  Arrange on a serving platter and drizzle a little sesame oil over.
  
  The restaurants make the sauce separately:  Boil the sauce ingedients
  and thicken with a little cornstarch water; when the crabs are fried,
  put them on a platter and pour the sauce over.
  
  The advantage to the restaurant method is that the crabs are a little
  crisper; the advantages to my method is that the crabs absorb more
  flavor from the sauce and the meat comes out fluffier.
  
  Recipe from Michael Loo.  Converted to Meal-Master format by Arthur
  Cloninger.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dark or White Chocolate Ganache
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Semisweet dark chocolate or
           -sweet white chocolate,
           -broken into 1-inch pieces
    1/2 pt Heavy cream
 
  Supplement to Food & Wine magazine, 03/95
  
  1. Melt ingredients together over low heat.
  
  2. Strain into a bowl and let cool to room temperature before using.
  
  3. Stir the ganache thoroughly before using; do not refrigerate or it
  will set. It can be kept at room temperature, covered, for 2 days.
  
  From Sallie Krebs, edited by various hands.
  
  Source: Chocolate Desserts, from the editors of Food & Wine magazine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pocketbook Rolls
 Categories: Breads, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1    (1/4-ounce) package active
           -dry yeast
    1/2 c  Warm water plus 1/2 cup
           -boiling water
    1/4 c  Vegetable shortening, at
           -room temperature
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter at room
           -temperature
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 lg Egg, beaten
      3 c  All-purpose *southern* flour
           -(Martha White, White Lily)
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) melted butter
 
  Appeared in Sun-Sentinel Food section July 6, 1995
  
  In a small bowl, combine yeast and 1/2 cup warm water, stir, and set
  aside.
  
  In a large mixing bowl, cream the shortening, 1/4 cup room-temperature
  butter and sugar with an electric mixer on medium speed.  Then
  gradually beat in the 1/2 cup boiling water (the butter and
  shortening will melt). Add yeast mixture and stir until well blended.
  Add egg and stir until well blended.  Sift in flour, add salt, and
  stir to mix well.  Cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap and chill
  until ready to use.  The dough will be soft.  (The mixture will keep
  up to 1 week in the refrigerator.)
  
  Three hours before ready to use, pat dough on a floured surface to
  1/2 inch thickness and cut into 2 to 2-1/2-inch rounds with a biscuit
  cutter. Fold each round in half and place on a large greased baking
  sheet. Brush each roll with melted butter, cover with a towel and let
  rise in a warm place about 2-1/2 hours.
  
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  Bake the rolls 15 minutes or until
  golden brown.  Makes about 20.
  
  Per roll: 144 calories, 2 grams protein, 8 grams fat, 16 grams
  carbohydrates, 23 milligrams cholesterol, 228 milligrams sodium, 49
  percent calories from fat.
  
  Recipe from My Mother's Southern Kitchen (Macmillan, 1994) by James
  Villas with Martha Pearl Villas
  
  Contributed by Sonya Wiren 7/6/95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tommy's Orange Muffins
 Categories: Muffins, Fruit, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lg Orange
    1/3 c  Orange juice
      6 tb (3/4 stick) butter, at room
           -temperature, cut into
           -chunks
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Seedless golden raisins
      1 tb Light rum
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose Southern flour
           -(Martha White or White Lily
           -brand)
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
 
  Appeared in Sun-Sentinel Food Section July 6, 1995
  
  "When I first tested this recipe, I accidentally left out the butter
  and it still worked amazingly well.  So, for a lower-fat variation,
  simply omit the butter."
  
  Butter and flour 12 muffin cups.
  
  Grate rind from orange; reserve.  Remove and discard white pith from
  orange and cut peeled orange into quarters, removing seeds.
  
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  In a blender, combine rind, orange
  quarters, orange juice, butter, egg, raisins and rum; blend 5
  seconds. Transfer mixture to a large nonreactive bowl.
  
  In another bowl, sift together dry ingredients.  Add dry ingredients
  to orange mixture and stir just until blended (do not over stir).
  
  Spoon mixture into prepared muffin cups, filling each cup two-thirds
  full, and bake until muffins are golden, 15 to 20 minutes.  Makes 12
  muffins.
  
  Per muffin: 187 calories, 2 grams protein, 6 grams fat, 31 grams
  carbohydrates, 33 milligrams cholesterol, 386 milligrams sodium, 31
  percent calories from fat.
  
  Low-Fat variation: Omit the butter
  
  Per Muffin: 136 calories, 2 grams protein, 0.62 gram fat, 31 grams
  carbohydrates, 18 milligrams cholesterol, 328 milligrams sodium, 4
  percent calories from fat.
  
  Recipe from My Mother's Southern Kitchen (Macmillan, 1994) by James
  Villas with Martha Pearl Villas.
  
  Posted by Sonya Wiren 7/6/95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hush Puppies 2
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Side dish, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 40 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose Southern flour
           -(Martha White or White Lily
           -brand)
  1 1/2 c  Yellow or white cornmeal
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Fine-minced onions
  1 1/3 c  Milk
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil plus more for
           -frying
      1 lg Egg, beaten
 
  Appeared in Sun-Sentinel July 6, 1995
  
  In large mixing bowl, sift together flour, cornmeal, sugar, baking
  powder and salt.  Add onions, milk, water, oil and egg; stir just
  long enough to blend ingredients.
  
  In deep-fat fryer or deep cast-iron skillet, heat about 2-1/2 inches
  oil over medium-high heat to 375 degrees. Drop batter by the
  tablespoonful into fat, making sure you do not crowd pan.  (This will
  have to be done in batches.)  Fry hush puppies 4 minutes or until
  golden brown and cooked through.  Drain briefly on paper towels and
  serve immediately while they are very hot.  Makes about 40 hush
  puppies.
  
  Per hush puppy: 65 calories, 1 gram protein, 2 grams fat, 9 grams
  carbohydrates, 6 milligrams cholesterol, 82 milligrams sodium, 34
  percent calories from fat.
  
  Recipe from My Mother's Southern Kitchen (Macmillan, 1994) by James
  Villas with Martha Pearl Villas
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: WATERMELON AGUA FRESCA
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 quart
 
 
  2 2/3 c  watermelon, seeded, peeled,
  :        -coarsely chopped
      4 T  sugar
      3 T  lime juice
      2 c  water
  
  Choose *ripe* fruit.  In a blender, smoothly puree measured fruit
  pulp and juice (a portion at a time, if needed) with sugar and lime
  juice.  Add flavored fruit mixture to water, then rub through a fine
  strainer into a large jar or pitcher; discard pulp.  If made ahead,
  cover and chill up to one week.  As a decorative touch, add slices or
  chunks of matching fruit just before serving.  Pour the agua fresca
  over ice cubes into tall glasses.
  
  Makes 1 qt
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HONEYDEW MELON AGUA FRESCA
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Honeydew melon, seeded,
           -peeled, coarsely chopped
      3 tb Sugar
      3 tb Lime juice
      2 c  Water
 
  Choose *ripe* fruit.  In a blender, smoothly puree measured fruit
  pulp and juice (a portion at a time, if needed) with sugar and lime
  juice.  Add flavored fruit mixture to water, then rub through a fine
  strainer into a large jar or pitcher; discard pulp.  If made ahead,
  cover and chill up to one week.  As a decorative touch, add slices or
  chunks of matching fruit just before serving.  Pour the agua fresca
  over ice cubes into tall glasses.
  
  Makes 1 qt
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STRAWBERRY AGUA FRESCA
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Strawberries, rinsed and
           -hulled
      3 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Lime juice
  2 1/2 c  Water
 
  Choose *ripe* fruit.  In a blender, smoothly puree measured fruit
  pulp and juice (a portion at a time, if needed) with sugar and lime
  juice.  Add flavored fruit mixture to water, then rub through a fine
  strainer into a large jar or pitcher; discard pulp.  If made ahead,
  cover and chill up to one week.  As a decorative touch, add slices or
  chunks of matching fruit just before serving.  Pour the agua fresca
  over ice cubes into tall glasses.
  
  Makes 1 qt
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne For Your Thoughts
 Categories: Pasta, Low cal/fat, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Olive oil
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 bn Spinach, chopped
      1 bn Argula, chopped (optional)
      1 bn Watercress, chopped
     15 oz Container nonfat ricotta
           -cheese
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
      1 lb Penne pasta, cooked
    1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
 
  PENNE FOR YOUR THOUGHTS
  
  This is one of my favorite lowfat pasta recipes--it even contains the
  all-nutritious spinach!  (Really makes me feel healthy when I eat it).
  
  Heat oil in large skillet over medium heat.
  
  Add onion and cook until softened, about 6 minutes. Stir in garlic
  and red pepper flakes; cook 30 seconds.  Add greens and cook over
  high heat, stirring, until most of the liquid is evaporated, about 5
  to 6 minutes. Remove from heat.  Stir in ricotta, salt, pepper, and
  peel. Toss with hot pasta and parmesan.
  
  The way the recipe was written, it supposedly makes 4 servings, but I
  think if that is true, they are 4 rather large servings!  I like to
  make this size batch because I can reheat it for quick meals for
  several days. If you do reheat it in the microwave, I suggest putting
  a tiny bit of water in the bottom of the bowl, sprinkling a little
  fresh parmesan on top, and covering the bowl (loosely).  If you
  don't, the microwave really dries it out and it just doesn't taste as
  good as when it is freshly made. The only real fatty ingredients are
  the olive oil and the parmesan (and I've been wondering whether they
  will find a way to make lowfat parmesan--I haven't seen any in the
  stores).  I do wish that I had a calorie/fat amount for the recipe; I
  got the recipe from a magazine and that information either wasn't
  there or I didn't copy it down. (Oops!)
  
  Hope you all enjoy this recipe as much as I do!
  
  From: "K. Cox" <ktcox@blue.weeg.uiowa.edu>
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jim's Chicken BBQ Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Seafood, Fish, Hot/spicy
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 md Onion, chopped
      2 sm Cloves garlic, minced
      2    Flat anchovy fillets,
           -rinsed, drained and diced
      1 tb Chinese hot sauce
    1/2 tb Chinese mustard
    1/2 tb Prepared mustard
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Cold water
      1 tb Hickory liquid smoke
      1 ts Five spice powder
    1/2 ts Orange zest
    1/2 ts Lemon zest
    1/2 ts Ginger powder
      6 tb Duck sauce (more or less)
 
  Combine water and vinegar, set aside. Blend all ingredients except
  reserved vinegar mixture and duck sauce, to form a paste. Add 1/2 of
  reserved vinegar mixture and blend until smooth. Add remaining
  mixture and blend until all ingredients are liquefied. Add half of
  duck sauce, blend well. Add remaining duck sauce and blend well. Pour
  into a saucepan and bring to a boil. Reduce heat. Simmer 5 minutes,
  stirring constantly. Pour into a hot sterilized bottle. Store in
  refrigerator. This makes enough for 2 chicken breasts.
  
  To Use: Inject sauce into chicken breast, legs or thighs. Let stand in
  refrigerator 2 hours. Baste with remaining sauce during last 15
  minutes of cooking.
  
  Note: Sauce can be doubled or tripled. Use more or less of duck sauce
  depending on taste.
  
  SOURCE:* Jim Bodle POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 7/95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Almond Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Cherries; tart; red; pitted
           - canned or frozen
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1 pn Salt
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
    1/3 c  Water; cold
    1/4 ts Almond extract
    1/4 ts Food coloring; red; optional
           - Pastry for a double crust
      9    Inch pie
 
  Drain cherries, reserving 2/3 cup juice in a saucepan; discard
  remaining juice. To the juice, add cherries, sugar, butter and salt.
  In a small bowl, dissolve cornstarch in water; stir into cherry
  mixture. Bring to a boil over medium heat. Cook and stir until thick
  and bubbly. Cook and stir 1 minute more. Remove from the heat; stir
  in the almond extract and red food coloring, if desired. Cool. Place
  bottom pastry in a 9 inch pie plate. Add filling. Top with a lattice
  crust. Bake at 375 F for 40-45 minutes or until crust is golden and
  filling is bubbly.
  
  Taste Of Home Magazine Feb/Mar 95 By Ramona Pleva - Lincoln Park, New
  Jersey
  
  Subscription Info: Taste Of Home - Customer Service - P.O. Box 991 -
  Greendale, WI 53129 USA - $16.98 for 1 yr.; $29.98 for 2 yrs.; $39.98
  for 3 yrs. CANADA - $24.59 CDN, includes GST. All other foreign -
  $25.98 per year, U.S. funds, prepaid.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Cobbler
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 c  Cherries; tart; red; pitted
           - Canned or frozen
  2 1/2 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Sugar; white
    1/3 c  Sugar; brown; packed
  2 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Cinnamon; ground
    1/4 ts Nutmeg; ground
           *___
           -TOPPING*
      1 c  Flour; all purpose
      1 tb Sugar; white
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Milk; to 1/2 cup
 
  Drain cherries, reserving 1/4 cup juice; discard remaining juice.
  Combine cherries and lemon juice; set aside. In a saucepan, combime
  sugars, cornstarch, cinnamon and nutmeg; stir in reserved cherry
  juice. Bring to a boil, stirring occasionally; boil 2 minutes. Add
  cherries; pour into a greased 8 inch square baking pan.
  
  For Topping: Combine flour, sugar, baking powder and salt; cut in
  butter until crumbly. Stir in enough milk to moisten. Drop by
  tablespoonfuls over cherries. Bake at 450 F for 10 to 13 minutes or
  until golden brown.
  
  Taste Of Home Magazine Feb/Mar 95 Peggy Burdick - Burlington, Michigan
  
  Subscription Info: Taste Of Home - Customer Service - P.O. Box 991 -
  Greendale, WI 53129 USA - $16.98 for 1 yr.; $29.98 for 2 yrs.; $39.98
  for 3 yrs. CANADA - $24.59 CDN, includes GST. All other foreign -
  $25.98 per year, U.S. funds, prepaid.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Our Best Bran Muffins**
 Categories: Muffins
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Flour
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Kellog's all-bran or bran
           Buds cereal
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      1    Egg
    1/3 c  Shortening or vegetable oil
 
  Stir together flour,baking powder,salt and sugar. Set aside.Measure
  all-bran cereal and milk into large mixing bowl.Stir to combine. Let
  stand 1 to 2 minutes,until cereal is softened. Add egg and
  shortening. Beat well. Add flour mixture,stirring only until
  combined.Portion batter evenly into 12 greased muffin pans. Bake in
  400 degrees for about 25 minutes or until lightly browned.
  
  Variations 3 cups kellogg's raisin bran cereal or 2 1/2 cups
  kellogg's 40% bran flakes cereal may be substituted for All-Bran.
  Have tried these and they are very good.
  
  Note The recipe for best Bran Muffins first appeared on Kellogg's
  All-Bran cereal box in 1926 Copied from Best Recipes from the backs of
  Boxes,Bottles,Cans and Jars by Ceil Dyer.
  Typed by G.Major         07\03\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Pinwheel Shortcakes
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Monarch Tea-Bisk
      2 tb Shortening
    1/2 c  Milk
      3 tb Soft butter or margarine
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
      1 cn (20oz) e.d.smith cherry pie
           Filling
           Whipped Cream
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees. To tea-bisk,add shortening; cut in
  finely with a pastry blender or 2 knives.Add milk and stir briskly
  with a fork to make a dough which is soft, but no sticky.Turn out on
  lightly floured surface and knead gently 8 to 10 times. Roll out to a
  rectangle 8x10.Combine butter and brown sugar. Spread over rolled out
  dough..Roll up like a jelly roll, starting with shorter side to make
  a roll 8" long.Cut in 6 pieces.Place in greased large muffin
  pans.Bake in preheated 425 degrees oven for 10 to 12 minutes.Spoon
  cherry filling over pinwheels and top with whipped cream.
  
  From labels typed by G.Major 07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Pop Kisses
 Categories: Snacks, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Egg whites
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Kellogg's sugar pops
    1/2 c  Chopped nutmeats
      1 c  Shredded coconut
 
  Beat egg whites until stiff but no dry.Beat in sugar,a tablespoonful
  at a time.Fold in remaining ingredients.Drop by teaspoonfuls onto
  well greased baking sheets. Bake in moderate oven 350 about 10
  minutes. Remove at once from baking sheets.
  
  From back of box Kellogg's Cereal
  
  typed by G.Major      07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Loaf
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Kellogg's special K
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
      3 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Grated lemon rind
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
    3/4 c  Milk
      1    Egg
    1/3 c  Melted shortening
           Glaze
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.Crush special K to 1 cup. Sift
  flour,sugar,baking powder and salt together.Add lemon rind and
  walnuts. Stir in milk, egg and melted shortening.Pour into a well
  greased loaf pan and bake 30 to 35 minutes.While still warm mix glaze
  and spoon over surface.
  
  From the back of Kellogg's Special K
  
  typed by G.Major         07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Krispie Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 45 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Soft butter
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Kellogg's Rice Krispies
      1 c  Semi-sweet chocolate chips
 
  Sift together flour and cinnamon.Set aside.Cream together
  butter,sugar and vanilla until fluffy and light.Add dry ingredients
  with rice krispies and chocolate chips.Mix well. Drop by level
  tablespoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets and bake  at 350 degrees
  for about 15 minutes or until cookies are a pale golden brown.
  
  From box of Kellogg's Rice Krispies
  
  typed by G.Major     07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mum's Cornflake Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 c  Kellogg's Corn Flakes crush
           Ed to 1 cup
      1 ts Ginger
 
  Cream butter and sugar.Fold in flour,cornflakes and ginger.Drop by
  level tablespoonfuls onto lightly greased baking sheets.Bake at 325
  degrees for 15 to 20 minutes.Let stand 5 minutes and remove cookies
  from sheet to cool.
  
  Suggestions; Use a combination of cinnamon,nutmeg and cloves in place
  of ginger.
  
  From box of Kellogg's Cornflakes
  
  typed by G.Major          07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meats, Vegetables, Main dish
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      4 c  Kellogg's Corn Flakes
      2    Eggs,slightly beaten
      1 c  Cream style corn
      1 c  Cooked tomatoes
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 tb Chopped onions
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Sage
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 lb Ground pork
 
  Crush corn flakes slightly; combine with remaining ingredients; mix
  thoroughly.Spread in greased 9x9 pan.Bake in moderate oven 350
  degrees for about 1 hour.Cut into squares to serve.
  
  From box of kellogg's corn flakes
  
  typed by G.Major        07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frosted Peanut Squares
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
      1 c  Roughly chopped peanuts
      4 c  Kellogg's Corn Flakes
      1 c  Chocolate chips,melted
 
  Combine sugar,peanut butter and corn syrup in a large saucepan.Cook
  over medium heat until mixture starts to bubble,stirring
  constantly.Remove from heat; stir in peanuts and corn flakes,using
  two forks to mix thoroughly. Press warm mixture evenly and firmly
  into buttered rectangular pan.Spread roughly with melted chocolate
  and cool. Cut into squares when firm.
  
  From box of Kellogg's Corn Flakes
  
  Typed by G.Major      07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Chicken Supreme
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Kellogg's Corn Flakes,crushe
           To equal 2 cups
      1 ts Paprika
      1    Egg
    3/4 c  Milk
    3/4 c  All purpose flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      6    Chicken pieces,breasts,thigh
           Or legs
      3 tb Butter or margarine,melted
 
  Mix together crushed corn flakes and paprika.Place in a shallow dish
  and set aside.In another shallow dish beat together egg and milk.Add
  flour,salt,pepper and poultry seasoning; mix until smooth.Dip chicken
  in batter,then coat with crumb mixture.Place in single layer,skin
  side up, in well-greased or foil-lined shallow baking pan. Drizzle
  with melted butter. Bake at 350 degrees for about 1 hour or until
  chicken is tender.Do not cover pan or turn chicken while baking.
  
  Suggestions; Different herbs and spices may be added to batter kor
  crumb mixtkure.
  
  From box of Kellogg's Corn Flakes
  
  Typed by G.Major      07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Nut Bread
 Categories: Breads, Fruit, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
      2 c  Kellogg's Special K
      3 c  Sifted flour
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Soft shortening
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Frozen orange juice
           Concentrate,thawed
    1/3 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Chopped nutmeats
 
  Crush Special K slightly.Sift together flour,baking powder,soda and
  salt.Blend shortenling and sugar; add eggs and beat well. Stir iln
  orange juice,milk and nutmeats. Add sifted dry ingredients; mix well.
  Stir in Special K. Spread in greased loaf pan. Bake in moderate oven
  350 degrees for about 55 minutes,or until done.cool thoroughly before
  slicing. Spread with cream cheese filling to make finger sandwiches,
  if desired.
  
  From box of Kellogg's Special K
  
  Typed by G.Major       07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kellogg's Rice Krispies Choice Peanut Butter Chews
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Snacks, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 25 servings
 
      5 c  Kellogg's Rice Krispies
    3/4 c  Corn syrup
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
    3/4 c  Peanut butter
 
  Pour cereal into large bowl.In saucepan,combine corn syrup and
  sugar.Stirring frequently,bring to boil over medium heat; boil 1
  minute.Remove from heat; stir in peanut butter until smooth.Pour over
  cereal; stir to coat well. Press mixture firmly and evenly into
  greased 9" pan. Cool completely.Invert onto cutting board,cut into
  bars. Microwave; In 8 cup microwaveable bowl, combine corn
  syrup,sugar and peanut butter.Microwave on HIGH stirring twice 3 1/2
  to 4 minutes or until mixture is smooth and sugar dissolved. Continue
  as above.
  
  From box of Kellogg's Rice Krispies
  
  Typed by G.Major        07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana All-Bran Nut Bread
 Categories: Breads, Fruit
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
    1/4 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Kellogg's All-Bran
  1 1/2 c  Mashed bananas
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/2 c  Chopped nutmeats
 
  Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly.Add egg and beat well.Add
  All-Bran,bananas and flavoring.Sift flour,baking powder,salt and soda
  together; add to first mixture with nut meats,stirring only until
  flour disappears.Bake in greased loaf pan,with waxed paper in the
  bottom, in a moderate oven 375 degrees for about one hour.Let cool
  before cutting.
  
  From a Kellogg's Phamphlet
  Typed by G.Major      07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: All-Bran Muffins
 Categories: Muffins
      Yield: 8 muffins
 
      2 tb Shortening
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Kellogg's All-Bran
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly; add egg and beat until
  creamy.Add All-Bran and milk; let soak until the moisture is taken
  up. Sift flour with salt and baking powder; add to first mixture and
  stir konly until flour disappears. Fill greased muffin pans 2/3 full
  and bake in a moderate oven 400 degrees for about 30 minutes or until
  done.
  
  Note; When sour milk or buttermil is used instead of sweet milk, use
  1/2 tsp soda and only 1 tsp baking powder. Makes 8 large or 12 small
  muffins.
  
  From Kellogg's Phamphlet
  
  Typed by G.Major           07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Stuffed Shrimp or Scallops
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 ea Extra large shrimp per
           -serving
      1 c  Salad shrimp
      2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
      2 ea Beaten egg whites
      4 tb Lemon juice
      4 ea Chopped shallots
    1/8 c  Chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine, melted
           Fresh lemon wedges
 
  Peel and devain shrimp leaving on tail.  From the underside slice
  down the shrimp slightly at the tail end and almost all the way
  through at the thick end.  Put aside.  Mix salad shrimp, chopped
  shallots, parsley, lemon juice and egg whites. Add bread crumbs until
  its right.  Make into 24 balls all the same size and put one on each
  shrimp at the large end. Place shrimp in broiling pan with any extra
  stuffing put under the shrimp. Drizzle melted butter over all.  Place
  under the broiler and check often. Time mostly depends on the size of
  the shrimp and to overcook them would ruin the dish. Note:  Fresh Sea
  Scallops can also be used.  But instead of stuffing them place the
  stuffing balls under and around them in the pan. Serve with fresh
  lemon wedges. Serves: 4
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Souvlakia
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Greek, Meats
      Yield: 12 skewers
 
  1 1/2 lb Boneless lamb shoulder
    1/4 c  Dry red wine
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Olive Oil
      2    Clv  Garlic, minced
      1 tb Oregano, dried
      1 tb Rosemary
      2 ts Lime rind, grated
      1    Bay Leaf
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Description:
  
  Sizzling, skewered lamb kebabs are delicious served with generous
  dollops of Tzatziki.
  
  Preparation Time: 20 min                 Cooking Time: 6 to 8 min
  
  Instructions:
  
  Trim excess fat from lamb; cut lamb into 4 by 1/2-in strips; set
  aside.
  
  In a shallow nonmetallic dish, whisk together remaining ingredients.
  Add lamb to marinade, turn and coat thoroughly with marinade.
  
  Refrigerate covered, at least 4 hours and up to 24 hours, stirring
  occasionally.
  
  Just before serving, remove lamb from the marinade.  Thread lamb,
  accordian style onto 12 metal skewers.
  
  Place skewers on oiled barbecue grill; grill over medium heat 6-8
  minutes, turning often and basting with marinade halfway through
  cooking time, until meat is tender but still pink inside.
  
  Source/Author: Homemaker's Recipe Collection of The Year / typo Bob
  Shiells
  
  Nutrition: per:   Skewers
                   Calories:   102              Total Fat (g):     7
                Protein (g):                Saturated Fat (g):
                 Sodium (g):                 Cholesterol (mg):
  :          Carbohyrates (g):
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tzatziki III
 Categories: Greek, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 cup(s)
 
      2 c  Plain yogurt *
      1 lg Cucumber
      1 ts Salt
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      2 tb Fresh dill, finely chopped
      1 tb White wine vinegar
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Olive Oil
 
  Preparation Time: 15 min                 Cooking Time: 2 hour standing
  
  Instructions:
  
  Line plastic or nylon sieve with cheese-cloth set over bowl.  Spoon
  yogurt into sieve.  Cover and let drain in refrigerator 2 hours.
  
  Meanwhile, peel, seed, and coarsely grate cucumber.  Place in
  colander, Sprinkle with salt and cover with plate small enough to fit
  inside colander; let drain 1 hour.  Rinse cucumber; pat dry on paper
  towels.
  
  In a medium bowl combine yogurt, cucumber, garlic, dill, vinegar and
  pepper.  Stir in olive oil, a little at a time until blended.
  Source/Author: Homemakers Recipe Collection of the Year / typo Bob
  Shiells
  
  Nutrition: per:   Tablespoon
                   Calories:    15              Total Fat (g):     1
                Protein (g):                Saturated Fat (g):
                 Sodium (g):                 Cholesterol (mg):
  :          Carbohyrates (g):
  
  Notes:
  
  * Use yogurt that doesn't combine pectins or fillers (check
  ingredients listed on carton), as these prevent it from draining
  properly. Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornish Saffron Cake
 Categories: British isl, Cake/cookie, Breads
      Yield: 1 cake
 
    3/4 dr Saffron (1.3 grams)
      4 lb Flour
      1 lb Currants
    1/2 lb Sugar
           Salt
           Lemon peel
     20 oz Shortening
      3    Ha'pence worth of yeast
 
  Cut up saffron and put in a little cold water, add hot and put in
  warm oven to soak. Put yeast in a basin and put a little sugar in
  with it. Pour one cup warm water on it, put some flour in and put on
  the back of the stove. Mix all together and let dough rise. Then make
  into loaves and let rise. Bake.
  
  Mabel Weller [from Great Aunt Ellen's recipes]
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornish Potato Saffron Buns
 Categories: British isl, Potatoes, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      1 c  Mashed potatoes
           And potato water
      1 dr Saffron
      1    Yeast cake
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Sugar
      6 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Currants
      1    Egg
  1 1/2 c  Or 2 cups shortening
 
  Put potatoes on to boil; cut up saffron and put boiling water on it
  and steep it. Scald milk, let it cool to lukewarm and add the yeast.
  Keep it covered in a warm place until it is fluffy. Add the warm
  mashed potatoes and saffron to the risen yeast. Add 2&1/2 cups flour.
  Let sponge rise for about an hour. Keep it warm and covered. Mix
  sugar, shortening, spices and egg into sponge. Pour sponge into 3&1/2
  cups flour. Knead for about fifteen minutes after adding currants.
  Let dough rise until it doubles itself. Make into buns and let them
  rise until they won't rise when you dint them with your finger. Bake
  in a hot oven for 10 or 15 minutes.
  
  Do not have any draughts. Have everything warm but not hot.
  
  Mabel Weller [from Great Aunt Ellen's Recipes]
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornish Mock Squab Pie
 Categories: British isl, Pie/tart, Fruit, Meats
      Yield: 1 pie
 
      4    Or more apples; peeled,
           -quartered, cored
           -and sliced
      1 lg Onion; sliced
      2 ts Pumpkin Pie spice*
    1/2 lb Lamb or mutton; diced
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2    Recipe- pie crust for lid
 
  These are Great Aunt Ellen's word for word instructions:
  
  "Cut up some apples to 1/2 fill the dish; then cut up a nice large
  onion; add 2 tsp. of spice (not the sweet but what you put in pork
  pudding) Add 1/2 or 3/4 pound mutton cut up just like we should for
  pasty, a good cup of sugar, then more apples to fill the dish."
  
  My [Mabel's] note: The spices were about the same as I put in pumpkin
  pie. I used pie crust topping but tea biscuit dough is alright.
  
  *Jim's Notes: Pumpkin pie spice mix: Combine 1 tsp cinnamon, 1/2 tsp
  ginger, 1/4 tsp cloves and 1/2 tsp nutmeg.
  
  Mabel Weller [from Great Aunt Ellen's Recipes]
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Chicken Divan 2
 Categories: Casseroles, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Broccoli spears(10oz)
      4    Chicken servings,cooked
      1 cn Cream/chicken soup(10.75oz)
    1/3 c  Skim milk
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese,shredded
 
  1. Layer broccoli in a shallow greased 10x6x2-inch baking dish; top
  with sliced chicken.
  
  2. Blend together soup and milk; pour over chicken.
  
  3. Sprinkle dish with cheese.
  
  4. Broil 4 to 5 inches from heat until hot and lightly browned on
  top, or bake in preheated 450'F. oven 15 minutes.
  
  NOTE: Makes an outstanding company dish!
  Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Teriyaki Lamb Chops
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Lamb chops (rib, loin or
           -shoulder)
    1/2 c  Kikkoman teriyaki marinade
           -and sauce
      3 tb Minced fresh parsley
      2 tb Dry white wine
      2 ea Garlic cloves, pressed
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Sesame seeds (optional)
 
  Mix together ingredients, marinate chops 45 minutes.  Turn chops
  occasionally.  Reserving marinade, remove chops; place on grill 4 to 5
  inches from hot coals.  Cook 5 minutes on each side (for medium
  rare), or to desired doneness.  Turn over and brush occasionally with
  reserved marinade.  Sprinkle with sesame seeds if desired.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Anti-Cancer, Anti-Aging Hamburger
 Categories: Meats, Sandwich
      Yield: 4 patties
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
    1/2 c  Textured vegetable protein
           -granules*
      2 tb Cold water
        x  Salt and pepper, to taste
 
  *  A soy protein sold in health food stores and some supermarkets.
  
  Put all in a large bowl.  Knead until combined.  Form into four
  patties, grill, broil or fry.  Serve on whole-grain buns with sliced
  onion for extra antioxidant protection.
  
  Per patty:  241 calories, 24g protein, 2.5g carbohydrates, 2g fiber,
  14.9g fat (5.9g saturated), 63mg sodium.
  
  Recipe from:  John Weisburger, as adapted from Jean Carper's new book,
  "Stop Aging Now."
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Peppered Salmon
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 ea (6-oz.) Salmon steaks
      1 ts Cracked black pepper*
        x  Olive oil or canola spray
        x  Salt, to taste
 
  *  Do not substitute regular pepper.
  
  Cover salmon and microwave on high for 1 minute.  Pat steaks dry to
  remove juices.  Press 1/4 tsp. pepper into each side of steaks and
  spray with olive oil.  Grill 2 minutes on each side.  Squeeze on lime
  juice and serve.
  
  Per steak:  254 calories, 33g protein, 7g carbohydrates, 0.3g fiber,
  12g fat (1.8g saturated), 80mg sodium.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pierniki  (Polish Spice Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Polish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Honey
      4 c  Flour
           -Pinch of black pepper
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Cloves
    1/2 ts Allspice
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Soda, dissolved in a little
           -water
 
  Heat the honey until it boils, then allow it to cool to lukewarm.
  Sift the flour with the spices. Beat the eggs with the sugar until
  thick. Add the soda, the honey, and the flour. Mix well. Roll out the
  dough on a lightly floured board to 1/4-inch thickness. Cut cookies
  in whatever shapes you like.
  
  Bake them on buttered sheets in a 350F oven for about 10 to 15
  minutes, or until just lightly browned.  The Pierniki may be
  decorated with a thin glaze made of confectioners' sugar, water,
  almond or vanilla extract, and a drop of food coloring.
  
  From: Michelle Bruce                  Date: 08-25-94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Chill
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     24    Crushed vanilla wafers
      8 oz Cream cheese
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      1 cn Blueberry filling
 
  Spread crushed wafers in square 8x8 pan. Beat until smooth cream
  cheese, cream and sugar. Pour over crumbs, top with filling, freeze
  at least 2 hours. From: Agnes Colgan Date: 05 May 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Muffuletta Sandwich
 Categories: Meats, Cajun/creol, Sandwich, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    10" Muffuletta bread loaf
      2 oz Genoa salami, sliced thin
      2 oz Italian ham, sliced thin
      2 oz Provolone cheese sliced
           -thin
      1 c  Olive salad (see recipe)
 
  Cut bread in half crosswise.  Pile several layers of salami and ham
  over bottom layer.  Add layers of cheese.  Top with Olive Salad and
  top of loaf. Press down slightly.  Cut sandwich in quarters.  Use
  wooden picks to secure layers, if desired; remove before eating.
  Makes 1 to 4 servings, depending on whether or not we're talking
  Cajuns or just ordinary folk.
  
  Terry Thompson writes, in his book Cajun-Creole Cooking, "A visit to
  New Orleans without eating a Muffuletta would be like a trip to
  Ireland without kissing the Blarney Stone!  A Muffuletta, one of
  life's great pleasures, it is a 10-inch round sandwich stuffed with
  meats and cheese topped with a concoction known as Olive Salad.  In
  New Orleans, the two best Muffulettas, bar none, can be had a Central
  Grocery or at Napoleon House on Chartres Street.  At Central Grocery,
  you stand in line at the counter to shout your order.  You can eat
  your sandwich while wandering through the tiny, crowded grocery.
  You'll find open barrels of flours and beans, wooden crates of dried
  salt cod, huge jars of olive salad and oil-cured olives, every brand
  of olive oil imaginable along with boxes of every size and shape of
  pasta made.  The Napoleon House is a real cafe and bar located in one
  of the French Quarter's oldest buildings.  Here you may dine
  unmolested by elbows and tromping feet."
  
  From: Rich Harper
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Orleans Muffaletta
 Categories: Italian, Cajun/creol, Sandwich, Meats, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Loaf Italian Bread, round
           -ham
           -Salami
           -Provolone Cheese
           -Mozzarella Cheese
           -Olive Salad (available from
           -most Italian groceries and
           -delis)
 
  Slice the loaf of Italian bread in two and warm in an oven until
  toasty. Place the cheeses on one half and the meats on the other.
  Thickness and quantity of cheese and meat can vary with each
  individual, but one layer of each ingredient is standard.  Cover the
  half that has the meat on it with olive salad.  Put the two halves
  together and cut in quarters.
  
  There are three crucial elements to making a good muffaletta:
  
  1.  Fresh, quality ingredients 2. Good olive salad. The Central
  Grocery in New Orleans, which probably makes the definitive New
  Orleans Muffaletta, now sells their olive salad by the jar. It's
  available in groceries across New Orleans, but I don't know if it is
  distributed past here. 3. Warming the bread *before* making the
  sandwich.  Many people put everything together on the bread and shove
  the whole thing in the oven. This is wrong. When you remove the
  sandwich, the cheese and the olive salad are way too hot.  If you
  heat the bread before making the sandwich, the cheese will melt on
  the warm bread, the meat will warm up, and the olive salad will stay
  around room temperature.
  
  From: Elendil@mintir.New-Orlean       Date: 04-05-94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Olive Salad #2
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 quart
 
    2/3 c  Green olives; pitted and
           -coarsely chopped
    2/3 c  Black olives; pitted and
           -coarsely chopped
    1/4 c  Pimento
      3    Garlic cloves; finely minced
      1    Anchovy fillet; mashed
      1 tb Capers
    1/3 c  Parsley; finely chopped
      1 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Olive oil

MMMMM----------------PRESENT IN JAR BUT NOT LISTD---------------------
           Carrots
           Celery
           Cauliflower
           Pepper
           Onion
 
  Mix all ingredients together well.  Store in refrigerator.
  
  This is better after it has set several days to let the flavors mix.
  
  NOTE: I got this recipe from my brother-in-law who got it from the
  chef at Moran's in New Orleans.  It is very similar to the kind
  served at the Central Grocery. When I made it, I used a little more
  olive oil and garlic and added a little red wine vinegar because I
  like the whang it gives the salad.  I also added the juice that was
  packed in the jar of green olives.
  
  The recipe as it was given to him did not have the carrots, celery,
  cauliflower, peppers or onion listed but they are all present in the
  jar that you buy from The Central Grocery.  I also added chopped
  mushrooms because I like them and didn't figure they would screw
  anything up. They didn't.
  
  SOURCE: Moran's Restaurant, New Orleans Shared by Nancy Coleman From:
  Nancy Coleman                   Date: 10 Jan 94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lobscouse  (New England)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Meats, Oldies
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 lb Salt pork; cubed
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Black pepper
        pn Cayenne pepper
      4 c  Cubed bottom-round beef
      4 lg Onions; sliced
      1 qt Or more boiling beef stock
      4 c  Cubed potatoes
      4 c  Cooked & cubed corned beef
           Optional: 2 or 3 anchovy
           -fillets and/or Worcester-
           -shire sauce to taste
 
     Fry the salt pork until crisp in a Dutch oven or heavy iron pot.
  Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.
     Mix the flour with the pepper in a paper bag. Add the fresh beef
  cubes and shake to coat them before quickly browning in the pork fat,
  adding more fat or oil if needed. Remove beef as it is browned and
  add to the reserved salt pork cubes. Lightly brown the onions in the
  same fat.
     Return beef cubes and pork to the pot, cover with broth, and simmer
  until beef is barely tender, about 30 minutes.  Add potatoes and
  corned beef and simmer 30 to 45 minutes more. Halfway through, taste
  for seasoning and, if salt is needed, add anchovies. For a heftier
  taste, add Worcestershire sauce.
  
  Originally in _Good Maine Food_ Marjorie Mosser, 1939 Reprinted in _I
  Hear America Cooking_  Betty Fussel, 1986 Viking Press ISBN
  0-670-81241-2 Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Grilled Ribs
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ea Chicken-flavored bouillon
           -cube
      1 c  Pineapple juice
      3 tb Brown sugar
      2 cl Cloves garlic; minced
    1/4 c  Onion; minced
    1/4 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Cornstarch
           Salt and pepper
      3 lb Spareribs or country-style
           -spareribs
 
     Combine first nine ingredients in a saucepan, and season to taste
  with salt and pepper.  Bring to the boil, stirring well.  Lower heat,
  and simmer 5 minutes; set aside.
     Cut ribs into serving-size pieces (3 to 4 ribs per person [heh]).
  Place ribs, bone side down, on grill over slow coals. Grill about 20
  minutes; turn meaty side down, and cook until browned.  Turn meaty
  side up again, and grill about 20 minutes longer. Brush meaty side
  with sauce mixture. Continue to grill, without turning, 20 to 30
  minutes; baste occasionally. Brush sauce on both sides of the ribs,
  and let cook 2 to 3 minutes on each side.
  
  Peggy Fowler Revels of South Carolina in July, 1981 "Southern Living"
  Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Fish Chowder (New England)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Cod or haddock fillets
    1/2 ts Black pepper
           Cayenne pepper
     24 ea To 36 hard-shelled clams
      4 c  Boiling fish stock
    1/4 lb Salt pork; diced
      2 lg Onions; chopped
      3 ea Potatoes; diced
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Heavy cream
    1/8 ts Mace
    1/8 ts Cloves
      1 ds Tabasco sauce
      1 ds Worcestershire sauce
      2 ea Fresh tomatoes; peeled,
           -seeded, and chopped
    1/4 lb Butter
           Common crackers or oyster
           -crackers
 
     Cut the fish into 1-1/2 inch pieces, sprinkle with the peppers and
  thyme (salt will come from the clams and salt pork), and put aside.
     Scrub the clams well under cold water to rid them of sand and put
  them in a pot with a little water on the bottom.  Cover pan tightly
  and steam the clams until the shells open, about 15 minutes.  Remove
  the clams from their shells, saving the broth for the stock.  Slip
  the black skin from the foot.  If the clams are large, chop the meat
  of the foot, and leave the soft part in one piece.  If clams are
  small, use whole. Strain clam broth through cheesecloth into the
  stock. Add water, if needed, to make 6 cups.
     Fry salt pork until crisp in a ceramic-lined or non-metallic
  kettle and add onions to soften gently without browning.  Add
  potatoes and then cover with the fish stock.  Simmer about 5 minutes.
  Add milk and cream, the seasonings, and the chopped tomatoes. (If you
  have chopped the clam meat, add it now.) Simmer another 5 minutes and
  taste for seasonings.
     Remove pan from heat.  Add fish and clams (whole or the soft
  bellies) and refrigerate overnight.  Reheat in a 200 F to 225 F oven
  just below the simmering point. Put a tablespoon of butter in each
  soup bowl, add soup, and crumble crackers on top or serve them
  separately.
  
  _I Hear America Cooking_  Betty Fussel, 1986 Viking Press ISBN
  0-670-81241-2   Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Summer Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Cauliflower flowerets
      1 c  Carrots; thinly sliced
      1 c  Fresh mushrooms; sliced
      1 c  Brussels sprouts; sliced
      1 c  Yellow squash; thinly sliced
      1 c  Broccoli flowerets
  1 1/2 c  Zucchini; thinly sliced

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts To 1-1/2 ts dried whole
           -oregano
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Radishes; thinly sliced
 
     Combine first 7 ingredients in a large shallow container. Combine
  remaining ingredients except radishes, mixing well. Pour marinade over
  vegetables, and toss salad lightly.
     Cover and chill at least 12 hours or overnight, stirring
  occasionally. Stir in radishes just before serving. Yield: 10 to 12
  servings.
  
  Recipe from Mrs. Carl Ramay of Colorado in July, 1981 "Southern
  Living" Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinade for Fish
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 /3 c  brow
 
    1/4 c  Pickling spice
      2 c  Light soy sauce
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Water
           Onion powder
           Garlic, Minced
           Tabasco sauce
           Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Dry White Wine
 
  Instructions:
  
  Fillet fish.  Mix all ingredients and marinade fish with skin side
  up. Cook on grill skin side down.
  
  Source/Author: Helen Eastwood's Recipe
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Banana Drink
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Fresh berries OR
      2    8 oz frozen berries
      2    Bananas
      1 c  Yogurt
      1 tb Milk powder
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 tb Honey (not with frozen)
    1/4 ts Vanilla
 
  Blend.
  
  From: Tran Bronstein                  Date: 20 Apr 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Shake
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Banana
      2    Scoops vanilla ice cream
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Blend.
  
  From: Tran Bronstein                  Date: 20 Apr 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dark or White Chocolate Ganache 2
 Categories: Chocolate, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Semisweet dark chocolate or
           -sweet white chocolate,
           -broken
           Into 1-inch pieces
    1/2 pt Heavy cream
 
  MAKES ABOUT 2 CUPS Source: Chocolate Desserts, from the editors of
  Food & Wine magazine Supplement to Food & Wine magazine, 03/95
  
  This velvet-smooth mixture of chocolate and cream is kept at room
  temperature and used for making truffles, dipping fruit or coating
  various pastries such as eclairs or cookies.
  
  1. Place the chocolate and cream in a heavy saucepan over moderate
  heat. Stirring constantly, cook only until the mixture is warm and
  most of the chocolate has melted. Remove from the heat and continue
  stirring until the chocolate has completely melted and the ganache
  mixture is smooth.
  
  2. Pour the ganache through a strainer into a bowl and let it cool to
  room temperature before using; it should not be warm to the touch.
  
  3. Thoroughly mix the ganache before using; do not refrigerate or it
  will set. It can be kept at room temperature, covered, for 2 days.
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bittersweet Chocolate Ganache
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 oz Bittersweet chocolate
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1 tb Brandy +
      1 ts Brandy
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Chop or grate choclate into fine crumbs. Heat cream until small
  bubles form around the edge; pour cream onto chocolate. Process or
  stir to melt chocolate completely. The mixture will be quite liquid.
  Let it cool. Beat in brandy and vanilla. This froasting takes several
  hours at room temerature to achieve spreading consistency. To speed
  the process, refrigerate. Stir occasionally to assure even chilling.
  Use as a frosting NOTE: This should be made with a blender. Can be
  done by hand but harder job.
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ganache
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Cream
      8 oz Semi-sweet chocolate, chop
      4 tb Butter, softened
 
     Bring cream to a boil. Transfer to medium bowl and immediately add
  choc. l smooth. Let cool slightly. Whisk in butter by teaspoonfuls.
  Source: newsletter Feb '90, newspaper Dolores McCann
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nougat tart from Tours
 Categories: Pastry, Pie/tart, Nuts/grains, French
      Yield: 1 22cm_tart
 
    3/4 c  Shortcrust pastry
           -flour
           Butter; for greasing

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 oz Glace cherries
  1 1/2 oz Candied orange peel
  1 1/2 oz Candied angelica
  2 2/3 oz Apricot jam
      4    Egg whites
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Ground almonds; mixed with
    1/4 c  Icing sugar

MMMMM--------------------------MACERATE-------------------------------
      1 c  Rum

MMMMM--------------------------DUSTING-------------------------------
 1 1/16 oz Icing sugar

MMMMM---------------------------QUELLE--------------------------------
           -- French Country Cooking
           -- The Roux Brothers
           -- PAPERMAC 1992
           -- ISBN 0-333-57670-5
           -- Typed by Rene Gagnaux
 
  Tarte de Tours au nougat.
  
  (For a flan ring, about 22 cm / 9 in diameter, 2 cm / 3/4 in deep)
  
  The candied fruits: cut into small dice and place in a saucepan with
  the rum. Warm slightly to speed up the maceration and leave to
  macerate.
  
  The pastry case: on a lightly floured marble or wooden surface, roll
  out the pastry as thinly as possible. Grease the flan ring, stand it
  on a baking sheet and line with the pastry. Pinch up the edges of the
  pastry to make an attractive, even frill. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
  15 minutes before you take the pastry case out of the fridge, preheat
  the oven to 200 oC (400 oF).
  
  Prick the bottom of the pastry case with the point of a knife or a
  fork, line it with greaseproof paper or foil, fill with baking beans
  and bake blind in the preheated oven for about 15 minutes. Leave to
  cool slightly, then remove the beans with a spoon and lift out
  carefully the paper or foil.
  
  Reduce the oven temperature to 180 oc (350 oF).
  
  Put the apricot jam in a saucepan and heat until reduced by
  one-quarter. Immediately brush the glaze over the bottom of the
  pastry case. Spread the candied fruits as evenly as possible on top
  of the glaze.
  
  Beat the egg whites until firm, then beat in the sugar. Using a
  slotted or metal spoon, gently fold in the ground almond and icing
  sugar mixture, taking care not to overwork. Pour the mixture into the
  pastry case and smooth the surface with a palette knife. It should be
  very smooth.
  
  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes. Leave in the tin for 10
  minutes, then unmould the tart and place on a wire rack to cool.
  
  Sprinkle lightly with icing sugar and serve this dessert still just
  warm. Submitted By RENE GAGNAUX   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shortcrust pastry (pate brisee)
 Categories: Pastry, French
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  (heaping) Flour
      1    Egg
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
  5 2/3 oz Butter; diced and slightly
           -- softened
      1 tb Milk
 
  Put the flour on a marble or wooden surface and make a well in the
  centre. Put in egg, salt, sugar and diced butter and rub the
  ingredients together with the fingertips of your hand, drawing the
  flour into the well with the other hand. When everything is almost
  completely mixed, add the mild and knead the dough 2 or 3 times with
  the heel of your hand to make it smooth, but do not overwork it.
  
  Wrap the dough in clingfilm or greaseproof paper and leave to rest in
  the fridge for several hours before using. It will keep in the fridge
  for 3 or 4 days, or for several weeks in the freezer.
  Submitted By RENE GAGNAUX   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Drambuie spiced peaches
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Alcohol, British isl
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Fresh peaches
      4 tb Drambuie
      1 c  Cold water
      1 c  Caster sugar
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      5    Cm piece of cinnamon stick

MMMMM---------------------------SOURCE--------------------------------
           -- Janet Warren, A feast of
           -- Scotland, 1990
           -- ISBN 1-85051-112-8
           -- Typed by Rene Gagnaux
 
  Put the water, sugar, nutmeg and cinnamon stick into a pan and over a
  very low heat dissolve the sugar. Then bring the syrup to the boil
  and boil it rapidly for a minute. Remove the pan from the heat.
  
  Plunge the peaches into a pan of boiling water for a quick count of
  ten, then transfer them to cold water and peel off the skins. Cut
  each peach in half and remove the stone. Put the fruit halves into
  the syrup and poach them over a low heat for 3 minutes.
  
  Leave the fruit in the syrup to cool, then stir in the Drambuie and
  chill the peaches for at least 4 hours before serving.
  
  Serve with cream.
  Submitted By RENE GAGNAUX   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana And Pineapple Fritters (Chuoi Va Dua Chien Ngot)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Vegetable oil -- for deep
           Frying
      4    Peeled bananas -- halved
           Lengthwise
      4    Pineapple rings, fresh or
           Canned -- dried on paper
           Towel
           Confectioner's sugar --
           Sieved

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Self-rising flour
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      2 tb Vegetable oil
           Salt
      1    Egg white -- beaten until
           Stiff
 
  1.  Make the batter first.  Mix the flours, baking powder, salt, and
  oil in a large bowl. Stir in just enough water to make a smooth
  paste.  Fold in the egg white a little at a time. 2. Heat some oil in
  a wok for deep-frying.  Dip the fruit in the batter and cook in small
  batches (do not put more than can comfortably float on the oil) until
  puffy and golden. This should not take mnore than 2 minutes. 3. Drain
  the cooked fritters on paper towels and sprinkle with the sieved
  confectioner's sugar.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bananas In A Rich Coconut Sauce
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Coconut milk
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
           Salt
      6 lg Peeled bananas
           And sliced diagonally about
    3/4    " thick
           Ice cream or whipped cream
           To serve
 
  *(Chuoi Voi Nuoc Cot Dua)
  
  1.  Heat the coconut milk in a small saucepan and add the sugar and
  salt. Bring to a boil.  Lower the heat and simmer for 2 minutes. 2.
  Remove from the heat and stir in the banana slices.  Bring back to a
  boil for a few seconds to coat the bananas.  Serve with ice cream or
  whipped cream.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banh Xeo Stuffed With Ground Pork And Beansprouts
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      1 sm Onion -- finely chopped
    3/4 c  Ground pork
      1    Handful beansprouts --
           Washed and drained
      3    Eggs
      1    To 2 tsp. Nuoc Mam sauce --
           Optional
 
  *(Banh Xeo Voi Nhan Thit Lon Xay Va Gia).
  
  1.  Heat half the vegetable oil in an omelet pan or a wok.  Quickly
  fry the garlic and onion until the aromas are released.  Add the pork
  and stir-fry until brown. 2. Toss in the beansprouts and stir-fry for
  2-3 minutes. The beansprouts should maintain their crunchiness.
  Remove from the heat, cover and keep warm. 3. Beat the eggs with the
  Nuoc Mam sauce until light and fluffy.  In an omelet pan, heat the
  remaining oil over a medium heat and pour in the egg and Nuoc Mam
  sauce. When the omelet begins to set, put the pork and beansprout
  mixture into the center and 4. To finish off the top and obtain a
  successful rice, finish off under a preheated high broiler.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef And French Fries (Thit Bo Va Khoai Tay Chien)
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 tb Vegetabke iuk
      2 lg Peeled potatoes -- cut into
           Matchsticks
      1 md Onion -- thinly sliced
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
     10 oz Sirloin steak -- cut into
           Thin slices
      2 ts Cornstarch
      3 ts Water
      1 ts Sugar
      2 ts Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
 
  1.  Pour 6 tablespoons oil into a skillet.  Add the potatoes and fry
  until brown.  Discard the oil and set aside the potatoes. 2. Fry the
  onion and garlic in 2 tablespoons oild.  Add the beef and stir-fry
  for 1 minute. 3. Mix the cornstarch, water, sugar, and Nuoc Mam sauce
  to a smooth paste. Add this to the beef and stir.  Add the potatoes
  and stir well to combine.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Crystal Spring Rolls  - Pt. 1
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 ts Lemon grass -- finely
           Ground**
      1 ts Garlic -- finely ground
      1 tb Ginger wine

MMMMM---------------------------ROLLS--------------------------------
      8 oz Steak sauce
           Cut against the grain into
           Pieces
    1/8    Inch thick and 2 inches
           Long
      6 oz Rice vermicelli
      2    Pickles onions -- finely
           Cut
      2    Dilled pickles -- finely
           Cut
      1    Carrot -- grated
      1 pk Round Banh Trang rice paper
           Warmed water in a bowl on
           The table

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
      4 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR Maggi liquid seasoning
      1    Red chili peppers -- finely
           Chopped
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      1 tb Lime or lemon juice
      1 ts Wine vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
      2 ts Dry sherry

MMMMM--------------------------TO SERVE-------------------------------
      1    Butterhead lettuce
           Cilantro sprigs
 
  *(Banh Cuon Thit Bo Viet Nam) **if this is unavailable, use the juice
  of a lemon and its grated peel.
  
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Crystal Spring Rolls  - Pt. 2
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  *(Banh Cuon Thit Bo Viet Nam).
  
  1.  Combine the marinade ingredients together and marinate the beef
  slices. Leave for 2-3 hours. 2. Soak the rice vermicelli. When soft,
  drain thoroughly.  Toss the cold rice vermibelli, pickles onion, dill
  pickles, and carrot together and place on the table in a dish. 2.
  Prepare the dipping sauce by mixing all dipping ingredients together
  and stir well. Put the lettuce leaves in a dish, the cilantro, and
  mint on a flat plate, and place on thetable.  Put the Banh Trang on a
  plate and place on the table. 4.  Put war water in a bowl that is
  large enough for the Banh Trang to be dipped in on the table.  Put
  either a table-top barbecue or a fondue on the table and bring the
  marinatedmeat to the table for the guests to cook.
   If neither is available, broil th
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef In Coconut Milk (Thit Bo Nau Voi Nuoc Dua)
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Clove garlic -- crushed
    1/2 lb Topround of beef -- thinly
           Sliced
      1 sm Onion -- thinly sliced
        pn Turmeric
    1/2    Green chili pepper
    1/2    Inch lemon grass cut from
           The bottom -- thinly sliced
      1 tb Canned coconut milk

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1 tb Peanuts -- crushed
           Handful
           Fresh cilantro -- chopped
 
  1.  Heat the oil until very hot.  Add the garlic.  When the smell is
  released, add everything except the coconut milk.  Stir-fry for about
  3 minutes or until the meat is cooked. 2. Add the coconut milk and
  stir once. Serve garnished with crushed peanuts and chopped cilantro.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Sate
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed and
           Sliced
      1 ts Fresh basil
      1    Red chili pepper -- sliced
      1 tb Lime juice
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce -- optional
    1/2 lb Steak -- cubed

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
      3 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR 2 tbsp. Maggi liquid
           Seasoning
      1 tb Lime or lemon juice
      1    Pickled onion -- thinly
           Sliced
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      1 tb Peanuts -- finely chopped
 
  1.  Mix the garlic, basil, chili, lime juice, sesame oil, and Nuoc Mam
  sauce, if using, together.  Marinate the cubes of beef in this for at
  least 4 hours, turning frequently. 2. Make the dipping sauceby mixing
  all the ingredients thoroughly and place in a bowl on the table. 3.
  When the beef is ready, thread on to four skewers and place on the
  barbecue or under a preheated high broiler until cooked, turning
  frequently. Baste equally freuqntly with the marinade. Recipe Source:
  VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do
  Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe
  formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef With Lemon Grass And Mushrooms
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef tenderloin
           Sliced very thinly across
           The grain
           And cut into 2 x 3 inch
           Pieces
      2    Stalks fresh lemon grass
           Sliced paper-thin and finely
           Chopped
      2    Fresh cred chili peppers,
           Minced
      6    Cloves garlic -- minced
      3 tb Nuoc mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      1 ts Arrowroot or cornstarch
           Freshly ground black pepper
  3 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 md Onions -- finely sliced
      1 c  Button mushrooms
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Roasted peanuts -- coarsely
           Ground
           Sprigs of cilantro -- for
           Garnish
 
  *(Thit Bo Nau Voi Sa Va Nam).
  
  1.  Combine the beef, lemon grass, chili, half the garlic, 2
  tablespoons Nuoc Mam sauce, arrowroot, black pepper, and 2
  tablespoons oil in a bowl. Set aside for 20 minutes. 2. Pour 1
  tablespoon oil in the wok over a medium heat and add the onions and
  the remaining garlic. Stir-fry for 1-2 minutes until they are golden
  brown. Remove the onions and set aside. Add 1/2 tablespoon more oil
  and, when hot, add the beef, the mushr 3. Scoop the food from the wok
  and arrante it on a warmed serving dish. Arrange the sauteed onions
  around it and sprinkle th peanuts and black pepper over everything.
  Garnish with cilantro sprigs.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Chicken With Nuoc Mam Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Chicken
      5 pt Water -- approximately
      2 x  1 inch slices peeled ginger
           Root -- about 1/8"thick
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Light soy sauce
           And 1 tsp. anchovy extract
     12    Dried black Chinese
           Mushrooms
      1 tb Dry sherry
           Salt

MMMMM----------------------INDIVIDUAL DIPS---------------------------
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame seed oil
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Maggi liquid seasoning
           And 1 1/2 tsp. anchovy
           Extract
 
  *(Thit Ga Luoc Voi Nuoc Mam).
  
  1.  Tear off the fat from the chicken cavity and discard.  Cut off
  the tail end and rinse the chicken in cold water.  Bring a large pot
  of water to a boil over high heat and plunge in the chicken.  When
  the water comes to a boil again, let the chicken coo 2. Bring the
  measured amount of water to a boil with the ginger slices and Nuoc
  Mam sauce in a deep pot into which the chicken will fit snugly. Add
  the chicken and, when the water boils again, turn the heat down to a
  simmer. Cover and simmer for 1 1/2 3. In the meantime, soak the black
  mushrooms in some warm water for about 20 minutes. Squeeze them dry
  and rinse in cold water, repeating this a couple of times. Cut off
  and didcard the stems and add the mushrooms to the soup about 30
  minutes into the 4. Serve the chicken whole in the soup and the dips
  in individual saucers. Guests tear off pieces of the meat with a fork
  or chopsticks and put it in their bowls with a little broth and
  mushrooms. Leftover chicken can be used for a variety of dishes.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Quails'eggs With Bean Curd And Vegetables
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Piece bean curd cut into 6
           Pieces 1/2 inch thick
      6 tb Vegetable oil
     10    Straw mushrooms
           OR firm button mushrooms
      8    Quails' eggs, hard-cooked
           And shelled
      1    Green onion -- cut into 1"
           Lengths
      2    Pieces canned bamoo shoots
           Cut into 1" cubes
      4 ts Bottled sate sauce
      1 ts Cornstarch
      3 ts Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
 
  *(Rau Va Dau Phu Tron Trung).
  
  1.  Fry the bean curd in 4 tablespoons hot oil until brown, taking
  care not to let it stick.  Set aside and discard the oil. 2. Put the
  remaining oil into a small casserole dish with a tight-fitting lid.
  Heat over a medium heat.  Add the straw mushrooms, quails' eggs,
  green onion, bean curd, bamboo shoots, and sate sauce. 3. Mix the
  cornstarch, Nuoc Mam sauce, and ugar to form a smooth paste. Mix into
  the water. Stir this into the casserole pot and cover.  Cook for 4
  minutes.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Bass With Ginger Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Bass, large enough to serve
      4    Cleaned and gutted
           Juice from 2 limes
      2 tb Chopped dill
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1    Piece Chinese stem ginger,
           Cut into strips -- for
           Garnish

MMMMM------------------------GINGER SAUCE-----------------------------
      2    Dried Chinese mushrooms --
           Soaked until soft
           Drained and thinly sliced --
           With stems removed
           OR
      4    Button mushrooms -- thinly
           Sliced
      2    Stalks peeled lemon grass --
           Thinly sliced
      2    Green onions -- finely
           Chopped
    1/2 c  Ginger wine -- scant
      1    Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1    Piece Chinese stem ginger,
           Cut into strips -- optional
      2 tb Wine vinegar
      4 tb Water
      1 tb Cornstarch mixed with a
           Little water
 
  *(Ca Bass Nuong Voi Xot Gung).
  
  1.  Rub the bass with the remnants of the limes.  Make slanting
  slashes down both sides of the fish.  Pour the lime juice over the
  fish.  Sprinkle over the dill and leave covered in the refrigerator
  for 2-4 hours. 2. Simmer all the ginger sauce ingredients except the
  cornstarch together for at least 3 minutes.  Gently add in the
  cornstarch, stirring all the time. You should see the mixture
  thicken.  Turn off the heat and cover. 3. Brush both sides of the
  bass with sesame oil.  On a barbecue or under a preheated hot
  broiler, book the fish until just done. 4.  Serve the fish hot with
  the ginger sauce poured over it.  Garnish with stem ginger.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Pigs' Feet (Chan Mong Lon Nuong)
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Fermented black beans,
           Soaked in cold
           Water for 6 minutes and
           Drained
      2    Inch ginger root -- peeled
           And chopped
      4    Cloves garlic -- chopped
      2 lg Red chili peppers --
           Chopped
           OR
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Light soy sauce and 1 tsp.
           Anchovy
           Extract
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Peanut oil
      2 tb Water
      2 lb Pigs' feet, washed, blanched
           And
           Chopped into 1 1/2 - 2 inch
           Pieces
 
  1.  Put all the ingredients except the feet into a blender or food
  processor and blend until smooth.  Empty into a large bowl and add the
  feet.  Mix until the feet are thoroughly coated and leave in the
  refrigerator for al least 2 hours, overnight if poss 2. Put the feet
  in a dish that will fit the steamer and steam for 1 1/2 hours or
  until the feet are tender. (If you don't have a steamer, use the
  largest saucepan you have.  Turna fair-sized bowl upside down and
  place it in the botton. Put the bowl cont 3. Drain the meat and
  reserve the cooking juice. Broil the feet until they are just crisp
  on the outside, brushing with the reserved cooking juice.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caramelized Chicken Wings With An Orange Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Chicken wings
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Sesame oil
      4 tb Clear honey
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Superfine sugar
           Shredded peel and juice of 1
           Orange
 
  *(Canh Ga Nau Ca - Ra - Men Voi Xot Cam).
  
  1.  Season the chicken wings with salt and pepper. Mix the sesame oil
  and honey, and spread this over the wings. 2. Heat the oil in a
  heavy-based pan and cook the chicken wings for about 4 minutes on
  each side or until just done.  Remove  the pan and keep warm.
   Reserve the pan juices. 3. Add the sugar to the pan and heat without
  stirring until it caramelizes. Remove from the heat. 4. Add the orange
  juice and reserved pan juices.  Stir over a low heat until a smooth
  sauce forms, adding a little water or orange juice if it becomes too
  thick. Add half the orange peel and continue to cook over a very low
  heat. 5. Place the chicken wings on to a warmed dish.  Pour the
  caramel sauce over them and garnish with the leftover strips of
  orange.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carp Cooked In Coconut Milk
 Categories: Fish, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetale oil
      1    Stalk peeled lemon grass --
           Finely chopped
    1/2 ts Peppercorns -- bruised
      1    Clove garlic -- chopped,
           Crushed
           Red chili peppers -- thinly
           Sliced
    1/2 tb Ground cinnamon
      4    Whole cloves -- bruised
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Light soy sauce
    1/2 c  Coconut milk
      1    Carp, large enough to serve
      4    Cleaned and gutted
           Peel and juice of 1 lime
      1 tb Fresh cilantro -- finely
           Chopped
 
  * (Ca Chep Nau Voi Nuoc Dua).
  
  1.  In the oil, gently fry the lemon grass, peppercorns, garlic,
  chili, cinnamon, and cloves until the flavor is released - 2 minutes
  at the outside. 2. Add the Nuoc Mam sauce and stir in gently. Remove
  from the heat and stir in the coconut milk. 3. Place the carp in a
  pan and pour over the coconut milk mixture.  Add the lime juice and
  fresh cilantro and stir. Cover and simmer for 10-15 minutes or until
  the fish is cooked. 4. Remove the fish and place on a serving dish.
  Garnish with the strips of lime peel.  Heat the sauce and boil for a
  few minutes to reduce and thicken. Strain until a plain milk is left.
  Pour this over the carp.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Casserole Of Duck With Dumplings  - Pt. 2
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  * (Vit Tim An Voi Banh Hap)
  
  3.  Make the dumplings by mixing the flour and boiling water in a
  large bowl, a little at a time, with a wooden spoon.  Do not concern
  yourself with what it looks like at this stage. 4. Chop the pork to
  loosen it and put it in a second bowl.  Slice the shrimp lengthwise
  and then cut them into 1/4 inch pieces.  Mix the the pork. 5. Cut the
  white cabbage leaves lengthwise into narrow strips and then cross-cut
  to dice them. Grind and mix with salt and leave for 5 minutes.
  Squeeze dry and add to the meat mixture with the rest of the
  ingredients except the flour. Stir until smooth 6. Knead the dough
  for a few minutes until it is soft and smooth, dusting with flour if
  necessary. Roll it out into a 16 inch long sausage and cut with a
  sharp knife into 1 inchpieces. Dip the cut sides in flour, press into
  small round cakes with the p 7. Lay a wrapper in the palm of one hand
  and put a portion of filling in it with the other. Spread with a
  table knife to within 1/2 inch of the edge. Gather the wrapper up and
  press the ends to make a little "basket".
   Press the back of a knife deep in 8. Skim off the fat from the
  casserole after it has been cooking for 3 hours and discard it.
  Scatter in the ham, bamboo shoots, and the dumplings. Cover and
  simmer for another 5-10 minutes.  Add salt to taste. 9. Serve in the
  casserole. Guests help themselves by tearing the bird apart with
  chopsticks. If they are not sufficiently proficient, you could chop
  it in the kitchen, put the pieces back into the casserole and bring
  it back to a boil before serving at
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See Pt. 1 for ingredients and steps 1 & 2
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Pho (Pho Ga)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Celery stalks -- finely
           Chopped
      3    Green onions (use green tops
           As well) -- sliced into
           Rings
     10 oz Cooked chicken -- finely
           Shredded
      8 oz Flour sticks or spaghetti
           Noodles
  3 3/4 c  Chicken stock*
      2    Pieces light wood ear
           Fungus
           OR
      8    White button mushrooms --
           Finely sliced
 
  1.  Place the celery and green onions in a bowl and put on the table.
  Place the cooked shredded chicken in a separate bowl and put then on
  the table also. 2.  Follow the directions on the flour sticks pack,
  or boil up the spaghetti until just soft.  Drai 3. Boil up the
  chicken stock until simmering, then add the light wood ear fungus or
  the mushrooms. Place in a bowl and put on the table. 4. The gusts
  should put a mixture of celery, green onion, and shredded chicken
  onto the noodles, then ladle the hot chicken broth into the bowls.
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA
  by Paulette Do Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Salad W/Grapefruit, Mint, & Lemon Grass  - Pt. 1
 Categories: Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Vegetable oil -- for deep
           Frying
     40    Shrimp chips --
           Approximately
      1 tb Unsalted peanuts
      1 tb Sesame seeds
      1 oz Dried shrimp
           Soaked in hot water for 30
           Minutes
      2 oz Fresh pork sides
      2 oz Uncooked shrimp in the
           Shell
           Salt
      1 md Unpeeled cucumber
           Halved lengthwise, seeded --
           And sliced thinly
      1 lg Carrot -- shredded
      1 c  Fresh beansprouts
      1 oz Cooked chicken meat -- cut
           Into thin strips
      1 tb Chopped mint
    1/2 tb Chopped lemon grass
           Salt
      1 lg Peeled grapefruit
           Sectioned and cut crosswise
           Into 1 inch pieces
           Cilantro sprigs -- for
           Garnish

MMMMM------------------------EGG PANCAKES-----------------------------
      2    Eggs
    1/4 ts Nuoc Mam sauce
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Vegetable oil
      1    Clove garlic -- minced
      1    Fresh chili pepper -- seeded
           And minced
    1/2 tb Sugar
    1/2 tb Fresh lime juice
    1/2 tb Rice vinegar
  1 1/2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
 
  *(Thit Ga Tron Voi Buoi, Rau Thom Va Sa).
  
  1.  Heat about 2 inches oil to 350 in a wok.  Add the chips 2-3 at a
  time and keep them immersed in the oil with a pair of chopsticks or
  perforated spoon until puffy.  This should take about 10 seconds.
  Turn and cook for the same length of time.  When f
  
  2.  Rub down the wok, return it to a moderate heat and cook the
  peanuts. Stir constantly until the peanuts are golden brown - about 5
  minutes. Grind with a grinder or put between a couple of sheets of
  clean strong paper and grind with a rolling pin or m
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Salad W/Grapefruit, Mint, & Lemon Grass  - Pt. 2
 Categories: Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  * (Thit Ga Tron Voi Buoi,Rau Thom Va Sa).
  
  3.  To make the pancakes, beat the eggs, Nuoc Mam sauce, and pepper
  together with 1/2 teaspoon water in a bowl.  Brush the bottom of a
  non-stick omelet pan with some oil and placeover moderate heat until
  hot. Pour in half the egg mixture and tilt the pan 4. Combine the
  garlic, chili, sugar, lime juice, vinegar, and Nuoc Mam sauce in a
  bowl. Stir to blend thoroughly.  Set the dressing aside. 5. Drain the
  dried shrimp and pound or blend in a blender or processor until very
  fine. Set aside. 6. Cover the pork with water and bring to a boil
  over a hight heat. Lower and boil for about 30 minutes or until the
  juices run clear when the meat is pierced with a knife.  Runcold
  water over the pork and set aside. 7. Cook the raw shrimp in boiling
  w 8. Sprinkle salt over the cucumber and carrot, and leave to stand
  for 15 minutes. Run cold water over them and squeeze dry with your
  hands.  It is imperative that the vegetablesare bone dry to ensure
  their crunchiness. 9. Dip the beansprouts in salted boiling water for
  30 seconds.  Run cold water over them and drain. 10. Cut the egg
  pancakes into srips.  combine the egg pancake strips, dried shrimp,
  shredded shrimp, chicken, cucumber, carrot, beansprouts, mint, lemon
  grass, grapefruit, and sesame seeds.  Mix well with your hands and
  pout over the dressing mixture. 11. Transfer to as serving dish or
  serve separately, and sprinkle the ground peanuts over it. Garnish
  with cilantro. Serve with shrimp chips on which guests place
  bite-sized portions of the salad. Alternatively, serve in hollowed
  grapefruit shells ins
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See Pt. 1 for ingredients & steps 1 and 2
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken With Mango (Thit Ga Voi Xoa)
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Corn-fed chicken -- cubed
      1 lg Carrot
    1/2    Red sweet bell pepper
    1/2    Green sweet bell pepper
      4 oz Bamboo shoots
      1 lg Mango, just ripe and firm --
           Cut into chunks
      4 tb Vegetablle oil

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 tb Sugar
      1    Egg white -- lightly beaten
      1 tb Cornstarch or potato flour
           Salt
           Water

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Sesame seed oil
      1 tb Rice wine
    1/2 tb Cornstarch or potato flour
           Mixed with a little water.
 
  1.  Mix the marinade ingredients thoroughly and mix well with the
  chicken pieces.  Leave to marinate for 30 minutes. 2. Trim and peel
  the carrot; cut into matchstick strips a litle less than 1 inch long.
  Cut the peppers and bamboo shoots into strips to match the carrots.
  Cut the mango flesh into small, fairly thin pieces as neatly as
  possible. 3. Heat the oil in a wok and fry the chicken pieces for
  about 2 minutes. Remove from the oil and drain well.  Add the carrot,
  peppers, mango, and bamboo shoots to thehot oil andfry in atches.
  Remove and drain thoroughly. 4. Rinse and dry the wok,   add the
  chicken and vegetables and stir in all the sauce ingredients except
  the cornstarch.  Stir-fry briefly and add the cornstarch to the sauce
  to thicken. Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM
  INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc.
  Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on
  May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Custard (Che Dua)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Thick coconut cream
      4    Eggs -- beaten
    1/2 c  Sugar
 
  1.  Beat the coconut cream, eggs, and sugar together until the sugar
  dissolves and the mixture is thoroughly blended. Sieve the mixture
  through cheesecloth.  The result should be perfectly smooth. 2. Place
  a serving bowl on top of a wooden trivet in a wok and test it for
  firmness. Pour the mixture into the serving bowl.  Pour some water
  into the wok and bring to a boil.  Place the serving bowl on the
  wooden trivet and allow to steam until the mix 3. Alternatively, pour
  the mixture into 4 individual bowls and steam in a large bamboo
  steamer.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Ice Cream (Kem Dua)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Thick coconut milk
  1 1/2 c  Fresh cream
      2    Eggs
      2    Egg yoolks
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Salt

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
    2/3 c  Shredded coconut
           Dry-fried until golden
           Brown
           Sprigs of mint
 
  1.  Heat the coconut milk and cream over a medium heat and cook for 5
  minutes without boiling over.  Beat together the eggs, egg yolks,
  vanilla, sugar, and salt. 2. Place a deep bowl in a saucepan with
  boiling water up to the halfway mark of the bowl. Pour in the egg
  mixture and beat in the warm coconut milk mixture, a little at a
  time. Stir until the mixture thickens enough to coat a spoon. Remove
  from the hea 3. Pour into a bowl when it is cool enough to be put
  into the greezer. Freeze for 1 hour. Scoop out into a blender or food
  processor and process until smooth. Pour back into the bowl and
  freeze until solid. 4. Serve in scoops, garnished with shredded
  coconut and sprigs of mint.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Crispy Roast Lamb, Beansprout, And Bean Salad
 Categories: Meats, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Crispy roast leg of lamb
           Thinly sliced and cut into
    1/2 x  1" strips
      2 c  Beansprouts -- washed and
           Dried
      1 c  Green beans
           Tossed in boiling water for
      5    Minutes
      1 c  Broccoli flowerets --
           Blanched
      6    Lettuce leaves -- preferably
           Chinese
      3 lg Tomatoes -- cut into wedges
      1 lg Cucumber -- peeled and
           Sliced
    1/2 md Sweet bell pepper -- cut in
           Strips
      2 md Onions finely sliced into
           Rings
      6    Green onion curls
      3    Hard-cooked eggs -- peeled
           And halved

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Unsalted roasted peanuts
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      3 tb Vinegar
      4    Cloves garlic
      3 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      3 tb Sugar
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR Maggi liquid seasoning

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1    Hard-cooked egg -- sliced
           Fresh cilantro -- chopped
           Chili flowers -- for
           Garnish
 
  *(Thit Cuu Quay Don De Nguoi An Voi Gia Va Dau).
  
  1.  Blend all the dressing ingredients in a blender using a little
  water to give you the consistency you want.  Adjust by increasing
  vinegar, sugar, or Nuoc Mam sauce.  Set aside. 2. Arrange the salad
  ingredients on a large dish.  Start off with a bed of lettuce and
  from there, you are on your own.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab And Corn Porridge (Chao Bap Voi Thit Cua)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Basic chicken stock*
           OR
      1 cn Condensed cream of chicken
           Soup
      1    11 oz. can corn kernels
      1    11 oz. can creamed corn -- 1
           Can
     11 oz Can crab meat -- drained
      1    Egg
      2    Green onions -- cut into
           Thin rings
 
  1.  If using condensed soup, add 2 cans of water and milk mixed.
  Bring the stock or soup to just below boiling point. 2. Roughly chop
  the corn kernels or leave whole.  Add the corn kernels and the
  creamed corn to the stock. Add the crab meat and stir thoroughly. 3.
  Beat the egg quickly and, holding a fork over the broth, pour the
  beaten egg along the back of the fork head, moving the fork in a
  circular motion at the same time. Remove from the heat and cover.
  Allow to set for about 40 seconds. 4. Sprinkle with the green onions,
  stir once and serve hot.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Stuffed With Ground Pork And Coriander
 Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Cooked crabs
      1 c  Chopped lean pork
      1    Onion -- chopped
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce -- optional
      1 tb Chopped cilantro root
      2    Eggs -- separated
      1 tb Chopped green onions
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
           Leaves
      1    Fresh red or green chili
           Pepper -- finely sliced
 
  * (Cua Tron Voi Thit Lon Xay Va Ngo).
  
  1.  Remove the limbs from the crabs.  Remove the flesh from the
  shells, taking care to keep them intact. Remove the flesh from the
  limbs as well. Flake all the flesh and set aside. 2. Combine the
  pork, onion, pepper, sugar, Nuoc Mam sauce, if used, and cilantro
  root in a food processor or blender.  Remove and place in a bowl.
   Add the crab meat and egg white.  Add the green onions and cilantro
  leaves and mix by hand, using more egg 3. Fill the crab shells with
  the mixture to form a generous mound. Carefully break the egg yolk
  and place 1/2 teaspoon yolk on top of each mound. Sprinkle with
  chili. Be very careful when moving the crab shells or else the yolk
  will run. (If you thing 4. Place each crab, stuffed side up, in a
  large steamer and steam for 20 minutes. Serve with a generous green
  salad or Simple Salad recipe from this book.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crispy Beef Slices Served With A Spicy Dip
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef tenderloin
           Cut across the grain into
           Thin slices -- 2 inches
           Long
      2    Eggs -- beaten
      1 tb Sesame seed oil
      1 tb Nuoc mam sauce -- optional
    1/4 ts Sugar
      2 ts Finely minced ginger root
      1 ts Rice wine or dry sherry
           Vegetable oil spray -- for
           Deep frying
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
           Cornstarch

MMMMM----------------------------DIP---------------------------------
      4 tb Nuoc mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      2 ts Chili oil
 
  *(Thit Bo Cat Lat Gion An Voi Nuoc Cham).
  
  1.  Mix the dip ingredients thoroughly in a bowl and set aside. 2.
  Mix all the other ingredients except the cornstarch in a second bowl
  and allow to marinate for 1 hour before cooking. 3. Dredge the beef
  slices in cornstarch.  In a wok, deep-fry a few pieces at a time
  until golden brown. The color comes from the cornstarch and not the
  beef. Drain, and put on a dish and serve with the chili dip.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crispy Roast Duck With Pancakes And Fresh Herbs
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ho Chi Minh duck
           (see Duck with Ginger Sauce
           Recipe)
     12    Wheaten pancakes -- (Asian
           Store)
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Boiled water
    1/2 tb Cold cuts -- water
      1 ts Sesame seed oil

MMMMM---------------------VEGETABLE PLATTER--------------------------
      1 bn Green onions -- cut into 2"
           Lengths
  1 1/2 c  Fresh cilantro
  1 1/2 c  Fresh mint
  1 1/2 c  Fresh basil
    1/2    Cucumber, peeled in
           Alternating strips
           Halved lengthwise and sliced
           Thinly crosswise
      5 c  Fresh beansprouts
           Commercial sweet plum sauce
           To accompany
 
  *(Thit Vit Quay An Voi Banh Gio Va Rau Gia Vi). 1. To make the
  pancakes sift the flour into a mixing bowl.  Pour in the boiled
  water, stirring quickly and then stir in the cold water.  When cool
  enough, mold with your hands and form a dough.  Cover with a cloth
  and leave for 30 minutes. 2. When ready, knead lightly on a lightly
  floured board.  Roll the dough into a sausage shape and cut into 1
  inch portions.  This will make about 14 rounds.  With the heel of
  thehand flatten into circles of about 2 1/2 inches across. 3. Using a
  pastry brush paint half the pieces with the sesame oil.  Place the
  remaining pieces onto the oiled surfaces making 7 pairs in total.
  With a lightly floured rolling pin roll out each pair to about 6
  inches across. Turn them to make them round 4. Fry for 1-2 minutes in
  a heavy un-oiled pan until they begin to turn light brown. Turn them
  over and repeat.  They will puff up. 5. Remove and separate the two
  thin pancakes.  Repeat until all the dough is used up. Put on a plate
  and cover with a bloth to prevent from drying. Steam all the pancakes
  in asteamer for 7 minutes just before serving with the duck. 6.
  Arrange the duck on a plate.  arrange the vegetables on a plate.  Put
  some plum sauce into a dish.  Place the pancakes on a flat plate.
  Guests place a teaspoon of plum sauce with some duck and vegetables
  on a pancake.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Fried Fish Cakes (Cha Ca Chien)
 Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 oz White fish
    2/3 c  Coconut milk
           OR cow's milk
    1/2 lb Sweet potatoes -- boiled and
           Mashed
      2    Tomatoes -- skinned and
           Chopped
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Light soy sauce mixed
           With 1 tsp. anchovy extract
      2    Eggs -- lightly beaten
           Rice flour
           OR all-purpose flour
           Vegetable oil -- for deep
           Frying

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Lettuce leaves
           Sprigs of mint
 
  1.  Cover the fish with the coconut milk.  (If there is not
  sufficient add a little water or cow's milk.)  Bring the milt to a
  boil and simmer for 10 minutes or until the fish is tender.  Remove
  any skin or bones and flake the fish. 2. Place the fish, potato,
  tomatoes, and cilantro in a bowl and mix well. 3. Combine the Nuoc
  mam sauce and egg. Add half the mixture slowly to the fish mixture so
  that it retains its shape. Add some flour if the mixture is too
  runny. 4. Shape the mixture into small balls. Dip each ball into the
  remaining egg and Nuoc Mam sauce mixture, and roll into the rice
  flour. 5. Heat the oil until it is smoking and deep-fry until the
  balls are golden brown. 6. Serve hot, garnished with the lettuce and
  sprigs of mint.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Fried Squid With Plantain/Banana Fritters  - Pt. 1
 Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh squid
      2 lg Garlic cloves -- minced
      2 ts Nuoc Mam sauce -- optional
      2 tb Chopped fresh dill
           Black pepper
           Cornstarch
           Vegetable oil -- for deep
           Frying

MMMMM----------------------NUOC CHAM SAUCE---------------------------
      2 sm Garlic cloves -- crushed
      1 sm Fresh red chili pepper --
           Seeded and minced
      1 oz Sugar
      2 tb Fresh lime or lemon juice
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar or wine
           Vinegar
    1/4 c  Nuoc Mam sauce
           Maggi liquid seasoning
      1 tb Water

MMMMM---------------------PLANTAIN FRITTERS--------------------------
      1    Egg
      2 tb Superfine sugar
      1    Whole ripe plantain --
           Peeled and mashed
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking powder
           Vegetable oil -- for frying

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
      1 c  All-purpose flour
        pn Salt
        pn Groung cinnamon
      1    Egg -- beaten
    2/3 c  Milk
 
  * (Muc Chien Voi Chuoi Chien).
  
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Fried Squid With Plantain/Banana Fritters  - Pt. 2
 Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 
  *(Muc Chien Voi Chuoi Chien).
  
  1.  Make the fritters first.  Make the batter by mixing the flour and
  salt. Stir the cinnamon, egg, and milk together and add to the flour
  and salt mixture.  Mix thoroughly usinga wire whisk. Place on a low
  shelf in the refrigerator for at least 30 minut 2. Add the egg and
  then 2 tablespoons sugar to the plantain, eating continuously. Mix
  the flour and baking powder, stir into the plantain mixture and blend
  thoroughly. Coat the mixture, a tablespoon at a time, with the
  batter. Heat the oil and fry thes 3.  Make the Nuoc Cham sauce. Place
  the garlic, chili, sugar, lime or lemon juice, vinegar, Nuoc Mam
  sauce, and water in a blender or food processor and blend for 30
  seconds untilthe sugar dissolves. Set aside. 4. Separate the head and
  body of the squid by pulling apart gently. Cut off and chop up the
  tentacles; discard the head.  Peel off the membrane from the body.
  Wash the squid under cold water and cut the body into rings. 5.
  Combine the squid, tentables, garlic, Nuoc Mam sauce, if used, dill,
  and black pepper. Allow to marinate for 30 minutes.  Coat the rings
  and tentables in cornstarch, shaking off excess. 6. Heat the oil
  until it starts to smoke. Drop in the squid a few pieces at a time
  and deep--fry for about 1 minute or until golden brown.  Remove and
  drain on paper towels. 7. On a serving plate, make a ring with the
  plantain fritters and heap the deep-fried squid in the middle.  Serve
  hot with the Nuoc Cham sauce in a small bowl.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        see part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duck With Ginger Sauce (Thit Vit Voi Xot Gung) - Pt. 1
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ho Chi Minh duck
           Vegetable oil -- for frying
     12    Thin slices ginger root --
           Peeled and shredded
  1 1/2 tb Hot soy paste
  1 1/2 tb Sweet soy paste OR hoisin
           Sauce
           OR hoisin sauce
  1 1/2 ts Rice wine
  1 1/2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce -- optional
      1 ts Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Chili oil
      1 ts Sugar
           Salt
      1 c  Chicken stock
      1    Green onion -- shredded
      1    Red chili peppers
           (fresh, shredded, or dried,
           Crumbled)
      2 ts Cornstarch mixed with a
           Little water

MMMMM----------------------HO CHI MIHN DUCK---------------------------
           Salt
        pn Five-spice powder
    1/2 ts Finely chopped ginger root
    1/2 ts Finely chopped garlic
    1/2 ts Hot soy paste
      1    Oven-ready duck -- about 4-4
    1/2    Pounds
    1/2 c  Hot water
      3 tb Wine vinegar
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
           Red food coloring
 
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duck With Ginger Sauce (Thit Vit Voi Xot Gung) - Pt. 2
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  1.  Make the Ho Chi Minh duck my mixing the salt, five-spice powder,
  ginger, garlic, and soy paste.  Put the mixture inside the duck's
  cavity and sew up both ends.  Mix the remaining ingredients well and
  brush over the entire surface with a pastry brush. 2. Preheat the
  oven to 400. Put the rack together with the duck on a roasting pan
  and roast for 1 hour. Reduce the heat if the skin begins to burn.
  (Ideally, the duck should be roasted upright in the Oriental style
  but most household ovens cannot acco 4.  Empty and wipe the wok, heat
  some more oil in it and stir-fry the ginger very briskly; add the soy
  bean pastes, return the duck to the wok and stir in the rice wine,
  Nuoc Mam sauce, if used, garlic, chili oil, sugar, and salt.
  Stir-fry for a few more 5. Add the chicken stock to the wok.  As soon
  as it comes to a boil, reduce the heat and simmer, uncovered for 5
  minutes.  Increase the heat, add the green onions and chili and cook
  fast for 1 minute, then stir in the cornstarch.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See part 1 for ingredients.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Fried Rice (Com Chien Trung)
 Categories: Rice, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Water
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Green onions -- finely
           Chopped
  1 1/4 lb Plain boiled rice
      2 tb Soy sauce
           Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  1.  Beat the eggs with the water in a bowl.  Heat 1/2 teaspoon oil in
  a wok and add the egg mixture.  Swirl it around to make an omelet.
  Transfer to a plate and allow to cool.  When cool, cut into strips.
  
  2.  Heat the remaining oil, add the green onions and stir-fry for 2
  minutes.  Add the plain boiled rice and omelet strips.
  
  3.  Stir in the soy sauce, salt, and sugar and cook for 2-3 minutes.
  Serve in a large bowl. Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC
  DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do Van. Published by Chartwell
  Books, Inc. Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann
  RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Crystal Spring Rolls (Bi Guon Ca) Pt. 1
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Fresh red snapper, sea bas,
           Or carp -- cleaned and
           Gutted
      2 ts Salt
      3 tb Dry sherry
      2 tb Ginger wine
      3 tb Cornstarch
           Vegetable oil
      6 oz Rice vermicelli
      2    Dill pickles -- chopped
      2    Pickles onions -- chopped
      1    Carrot -- grated
      1 pk Round Banh Trang rice paper

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
      4 tb Nuac Mam
           OR
           Maggi liquid seasoning
      1    Red chili peppers -- finely
           Chopped
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Cider vinegar
           OR
           Wine vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
      2 ts Dry sherry

MMMMM--------------------------TO SERVE-------------------------------
           Cilantro sprigs
           Mint sprigs
      1    Butterhead lettuce
 
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Crystal Spring Rolls (Bi Guon Ca) Pt. 2
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  1.  Make slanting slashes down both sides of the fish, about 3/4 inch
  apart.  Mix the salt, sherry, ginger wine, and 2 tablespoons
  cornstarch in a dish large enough to contain thefish.  Roll the fish
  in this mixture until well coated and then leae to stan 2. Remove the
  fish from the dish and dust with the remaining cornstarch. Heat the
  oil in a pan big enough to hold the fish and fry over moderate heat
  for about 12 minutes, turning once, very gently.  Drain on paper
  towels. Keep the fish warm as you asse 3.  Soak the rice vermicelli
  in warm water until soft.  Drain thoroughly. 4.  combine all the
  ingredients for the dipping sauce and mix thoroughly. Toss the
  pickles, onions, and carrot into the rice vermicelli. 5. Assemble all
  the components on the table.  The fish should be warm and gently
  scraped away from the bones.  Provide two bowls of warm water for
  dipping the Banh Trang in.  Thegusts help themselves to a round rice
  paper. This is dipped into the warm w
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Colonial Steak (Bip - Tech Kieu Phap Thuoc Dia)
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Chili sauce
      2    Garlic cloves -- crushed
      2 tb Black vinegar
      1    Piece entrecote steak
           OR beef tebderkiub -- about
      2    Pounds

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1    Shallot
           Thinly sliced and deep-fried
           Until crisp
      1 tb Chopped peanuts
 
  1.  Mix the chili sauce, garlic, and vinegar in a bowl.  Cover the
  steak with this marinade and leave overnight if possible. 2. Set the
  broiler at its highest.  Slip the steak under it for a good 4 minutes
  on each side and allow it to rest for 5 minutes. 3. Cut the steak
  across the grain in thin slices and place attractively on a serving
  dish. Sprinkle with the shallots and peanuts.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Chicken With Lemon Grass And Cashew Nuts
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Vegetable oil
      2 sm Dried chilies
      1    Clove garlic -- chopped
      1 lb Lean, corn-fed chicken --
           Sliced
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      3 tb Chicken stock -- or water
    1/2 c  Toasted, unsalted cashew
           Nuts
      1 tb Chopped lemon grass
      2    Shallots -- quartered
 
  * (Thit Ga Xao Voi Sa Va Dao Lon Hot).
  
  1.  With a drop or two of oil, stir-fry the chilies until cooked
  evenly but not burnt.  Set aside. 2. Stir-fry the garlic with a few
  more drops of oil until golden. Add the chicken slices, sugar, and
  oyster and Nuoc Mam sauces and stir-fry until the chicken is golden
  in color.Lower the heat and add the stock.  Cook for a few more
  minutes, stirring occ 3. When the chicken is thoroughly cooked, add
  the cashew nuts, lemon grass, shallots, and chilies, and stir several
  times, being careful not to bread the chilies. Remove from the heat
  and serve.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Eel With Lemon Grass And Peanut
 Categories: Fish, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Vegetableoil -- for deep
           Frying
      1 lb Cleaned and filleted eel
           Cut into strips 2" long and
    3/8    " thick
      2    Stalks lemon grass
           Cleaned and cut into strips
    2/3 c  Chicken stock
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Maggi liquid seasoning mixed
           With
      1 ts Anchovy extract
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Sesame seed oil
      2 tb Crushed roasted peanuts --
           For garnish
 
  *(Luon Xao Voi Sa Va Lac).
  
  1.  Heat the oil until hot and deep-fry the pieces of eel until crisp
  and golden brown.  Drain on paper towels and set aside. 2. Mix the
  lemon grass, chicken stock, Nuoc mam sauce, rice wine, and sugar, and
  heat in a saucepan.  Just at the boiling point, add the fried eel
  pieces, cover, and simmer for 3minutes.  Stir in the cornstarch
  mixture to thicken. 3. Place on a dish in a ring shape, leaving a
  well in the center.  Heat the sesame oil until very hot and pour this
  into the well. Sprinkle the crushed roasted peanuts as a garnish.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Frogs' Legs W/Banana (Chan Ech Chien An Voi Chuoi)
 Categories: Meats, Fruit, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Pairs
      3 tb Peanut oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
      1 tb Dry sherry
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
           Cornstarch
           Vegetable oil -- for frying
      1    Green sweet bell pepper --
           Cut into strips
      1    Red chili peppers --
           Chopped

MMMMM-----------------------BANANA BATTER----------------------------
    1/2 c  Self-rising flour
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
           Salt
    1/4 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg white -- beaten until
           Stiff
           Vegetable oil
      4    Bananas
           Frogs' legs
 
  1.  Place the whole frogs' legs in a bowl.  Mix in 2 tablespoons
  peanut oil, garlic, sherry, and Nuoc Mam sauce.  Sprinkle with some
  cornstarch and mix well.  Place in the refrigerator and leave to
  marinate for at least 2 hours. 2. Heat the vegetable oil in a large
  pan and deep-fry the legs for about 5 minutes. Take care not to burn.
  3. In another wok or pan, heat the remaining peanut oil.  Add the
  pepper and chili. Quickly toss the legs into the pepper and chili,
  stir thoroughly then remove. 4. To make the banana batter, sieve the
  flour with the salt and baking powder. Stir in enough water to form a
  liquidy paste.  Lightly fold in the beaten egg white. 5. Heat 3
  inches oil in a wok.  Peel the bananas, cut in half lengthwise and
  dunk into the batter.  Dip them into the hot oil and cook in batches
  until golden and puffy.  Drain on paper towels and serve with the
  frogs' legs.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Frogs' Legs With Garlic Sauce
 Categories: Vietnamese, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Pairs Jumbo frog legs,
           -trimmed (about 1 pound)
      1    Stalk fresh lemon grass
           Soaked for 1 hour in warm
           Water -- finely chopped
           OR
      1 tb Dried lemon grass
      2    Fresh red chili peppers --
           Sliced
      2    Green onions -- sliced
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
           Salt
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Maggi seasoning and 1 garlic
           Clove -- crushed
      2 oz Bean thread vermicelli
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 sm Onion -- chopped
      1 c  Chicken strock or water
    1/2 c  Coconut cream or heavy
           Cream
      3 tb Cornstarch mixed with a
           Little water
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Cilantro sprigs -- for
           Garnish
 
  *(Chan Ech chien Voi Xot Toi)
  
  1.  Chop the frogs' legs into bite-sized pieces and rinse with cold
  water to get rid of any pieces of bone.  Pat dry and put in the
  refrigerator.
  
  2. Combine the lemon grass, chilies, green onion, garlic, sugar,
  salt, and 1 tablespoon Nuoc mam sauce in a blender or food processor
  until a very fine paste results.  Rub the paste over the frogs' legs,
  cover and refrigerate again for 30 minutes.
  
  3. Soak the vermicelli in warm wate for 30 minutes. Drain and cut
  into 2 inch lengths.
  
  4. Heat the oil in a wok over moderate heat.  Add the onion and saute
  until soft, then add the frogs' legs and brown well, turning them over
  from time to time. This should take 3 minutes.  Add the chicken stock
  and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat, cov
  
  5.  Uncover the wok and add the coconut cream.  Add the cornstarch
  and the remainng Nuoc Mam sauce.  Stir as the sauce thickens and cook
  for another 15 minutes.
  
  6.  Add the vermicelli and bring to a boil.  Remove from the heat.
  Sprinkle with black pepper
  
  7. Serve immediately with rice or French bread or rice noodles.  It is
  advisable to offfer an alternative to frogs; legs since there are a
  few cynics who do not believe that frogs' legs taste very much like
  chicken.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Roasted Duck (Vit Nuong Toi)
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
    2/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      1    Onion -- chopped
     12    Juniper berries, crushed
      2 ts Fennel seeds
      1    Clove garlic -- crushed
      4    Duck breast and wing
           Portions
      5 oz Plain yogurt
           Salt and black pepper
           Watercress -- to garnish
 
  1.  Mix the Nuoc Mam sauce, vinegar, onion, juniper berries, fennel
  seeds, and garlic thoroughly in a large bowl and rub well into the
  duck portions.
   Cover the bowl with some plastic wrap and leave in a refrigerator
  for 8 hours, turning occasionally. 2. Preheat the oven to 425. Drain
  and reserve the marinade.  Place the duck portions, skin side down,
  in an ovenproof dish. Put in the oven for 30 minutes, basting at
  least once. Turn the duck portions over, baste and cook for a further
  30 minutes, ba 3. Spoon 1 cup of the marinade into a hot pan, cover
  and allow to simmer for at least 5 minutes.  Strain, whisk in the
  yogurt and season with salt and black pepper to taste. 4. Serve the
  duck on a dish garnished with the watercress. The sauce is served in
  a bowl. If guests are not proficient with chopsticks, the duck should
  be chopped into bite-sized pieces.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Surprise (Banh Gung Dac Biet) - Pt. 1
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 oz Ginger root -- crushed
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Hot water

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Dried yellow mung beans
           Soaked in warm water for 30
           Minutes -- and drained
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
      4 tb Sesame seeds

MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      2 c  Glutinous rice flour
           OR
           All-purpose flour
      1 c  Boiling water
 
  1.  Make the ginger syrup by swirling the ginger and sugar constantly
  in a small saucepan over low heat, until the sugar browns.  When it
  starts to smoke, stir in the hot water (be careful: you could give
  yourself a nasty burn with the spluttering) and al 2. Make the
  filling by steaming the mung beans over high heat for 20 minutes.
  Transfer to a blender of food processor, add the sugar and process to
  a fine paste. Put in the refrigerator for 20 minutes to firm up.
  
  Continued on part 2.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Surprise (Banh Gung Dac Biet) - Pt. 2
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  See part 1 for steps 1 and 2.
  
  3.  Toast the sesame seeds by dry-frying in a wok for 2 minutes.
  Reserve 2 tablespoons for garnishing, put the remainder in a blender
  and process to a paste.  Combine with the mung bean paste and blend
  well.  Roll 16 marblesized balls of the mixture (1 t 4. Place the
  glutinous rice flour in a mixing bowl and quickly mix with the hot
  water to make a sticky dough. Cover and leave to stand for 5 minutes.
  Dust a work surface with flour and knead the dough for 3 minutes
  until soft and smooth. Divide into 2 5. Flatten the dough balls, one
  at a time, into 2 1/2 inch discs.  Place a mung bean ball in the
  center, gather the edges around and pinch to seal.
   Roll the dumplings between the palms to form perfect balls. 6.
  Divide each of the remaining four dough balls into four, cover and
  set aside. 7. Bring a large pot of water to a boil.  Boil the filled
  dumplings for 2 minutes over a moderate heat.  Add the smaller
  dumplings and cook for a further 3 minutes or until they rise to the
  surface.  Drain. 8. Reheat the ginger syrup over low heat in a large
  saucepan.  Add the dumplings and allow to simmer for 2 minutes.  Set
  aside to cool. 9. Serve four large dumplings and four small ones to
  each person in individual dessert cups or rice bowls. Sprinkle with
  the reserved toasted sesame seed.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        see part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans With Crushed Garlic
 Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Onion -- finely chopped
      4    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      3 lg Green chilies
           Seeded and sliced thinly
           Diagonally
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      2    Ripe tomatoes
           Blanched, skinned, seeded,
           And chopped roughly
      1 lb Green beans -- trimmed and
           Halved
    1/2 ts Sugar
        pn Salt
      2 tb Fresh cilantro -- chopped
 
  *(Dau Phap Voi Toi Nghien).
  
  1.  Heat the oil in a wok and stir-fry the onion, garlic, and green
  chilies, stirring constantly, for 2 minutes. 2. Add the coriander and
  cumin, stir vigorously and add the chopped tomatoes and beans. Stir
  and cover the wok for 5 minutes.  Remove the cover, add the sugar and
  a little salt,and stir again for 1 minutes.  Add the cilantro, stir
  for 30 seconds and tra
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Peppers And Deep-Fried Bean Curd
 Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Ground nut or corn oil
      2    Thin slices fresh ginger --
           Peeled and deveined
      4 lg Chinese celery cabbage
           Leaves -- cut in 1" lengths
      1 lg Green bell pepper -- seeded
           And sliced
           Salt
           Oil -- for deep frying
      4 x  1-inch square cakes bean
           Curd
           Drained and cut into
           Rectangles,
      3    Per cake (use paper towels
           To drain)

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 ts Potato flour
      5 tb Mushroom water
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      2    Green onions -- cut into 1"
           Sections
           White and green parts
           Separated
      4 lg Dried Chinese mushrooms
           Soaked, squeezed, and cut
           Into thin
           Strips (water to be
           Reserved)
 
  *(Ot Kgot Xanh Voi Dau Phy Chien).
  
  1.  Prepare the sauce by mixing together the potato flour, mushroom
  water, oyster sauce, and soy sauce.  Heat a wok and add 2 tablespoons
  oil and swirl around.  Add the garlic, letting it sizzle and then add
  the white part of the onion and then the Chines 2. Heat 1 tablespoon
  nut or corn oil in a wok over a high heat until it starts to smoke.
  Add the ginger and when it starts to sizzle, add the cabbage and
  green pepper. Toss for about 30 seconds.  Season with a little salt,
  lower the heat and continue to 3. Now half fill the wok with oil,
  heat to 200 and lower the bean curd into the oil, one piece at a
  time, and deep-fry for 4 minutes or until golden brown, turning over
  from time to time.  Remove with a large strainer and drain on paper
  towels. 4. Lay the bean curd on the cabbage in the pot and add the
  green part of the onion. Heat the sauce and pour this over the bean
  curd. Heat the pot for 2 minutes and serve.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Meat, Crab, And Grapefruit Vietnamese Salad
 Categories: Vietnamese, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Ground pork or beef
      3 tb Water
      2 tb Lime or lemon juice
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Maggi liquid seasoning mixed
           With
      1 ts Anchovy extract
      1    Green chili pepper -- finely
           Sliced
      1 sm Spanish onion -- finely
           Diced
    1/2    Inch fresh root ginger --
           Finely chopped
      1 tb Finely chopped fresh
           Cilantro
      1 sm Can crabmeat -- thoroughly
           Drained
      1    Pomelo or pink grapefruit --
           Segmented and halved

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Lettuce leaves
           Grated carrot
 
  * (Rau Tron Thit Xay, Cua Va Buoi Viet Nam).
  
  1.  Place the ground meat in the water and slowly cook over a medium
  heat until the meat turns color and is just cooked but still tender.
  Remove from the heat and leave to cool slightly. 2. Add the lime
  juice, Nuoc Mam sauce, and chili to the meat.  When thoroughly
  cooled, add the onion, ginger, cilantro, and cra meat and stir
  thoroughly. Toss the grapefruit into the salad. 3. Place the lettuce
  leaes on a flat dish. Arrange the grated carrot on the lettuce to
  form a ring. Spoon the salad into the center of the carrot.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Pork, Shrimp, & Pineapple Salad With A Fish Sauce
 Categories: Meats, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground lean pork
           Or preferably finely
           Chopped
      2 tb Water
  1 1/3 c  Cooked shrimp
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Light soy sauce with 1 tbsp.
           Maggi
           Seasoning and 1/2 tsp.
           Anchovy extract
    1/2 ts Dried powdered chili
      1 ts Fresh red chili pepper --
           Finely sliced
      2 tb Finely sliced onion
      2 tb Green onions -- cut in 1/2"
           Sections
      2 tb Roasted peanuts
      2 sl Pineapple -- roughly
           Chopped
      2 tb Ginger root -- finely
           Sliced
      1 tb Chopped fresh mint leaves
      2 tb Chopped cilantro leaves and
           Stems
      6 lg Lettuce leaves

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Roasted peanuts
      1 tb Finely sliced ginger root
        pn Dried powdered chili
           Fresh red sliced chili
           Pepper
           Sprig mint
           Sprig cilantro
           Green onion curls
           Chili flowers
 
  *(Thit Lon, Tom Xay Tron Dua An Voi Nuoc Xot Ca).
  
  1.  Cook the pork in a wok over medium heat with the water until the
  pork is cooked thoroughly but still tender and juicy.  Remove from
  the heat. 2. Add the shrimp, lemon juice, Nuoc Mam sauce, and dried
  and fresh chili and stir.  Add the onion, green onions, peanuts,
  pineapple, ginger, mint, and cilantro leaves.  Toss lightly. 3. Serve
  on a bed of lettuce leaves. Garnish with peanuts, ginger, chili,
  sprigs of mint and cilantro, green onion curls, and chili flowers.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Egg And Shredded Vegetable Salad  - Pt. 1
 Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/4 ts Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Water
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 oz Bean thread vermicelli
      4    Dried Chinese mushrooms
      1 tb Sesame seeds
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
           Salt
      2 tb Sesame oil
      1 c  Snow peas -- thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Bamboo shoots -- thinly
           Sliced
      1 sm Carrot -- peeled/thinly
           Sliced
      1 sm Daikon
           OR white Chinese radish --
           Peeled/thinly sliced
      1 sm Peeled cucumber --
           Seeded/thinly sliced
      1 sm Green bell pepper -- thinly
           Sliced
      1 sm Red bell pepper -- thinly
           Sliced
      2    Celery stalks -- thinly
           Sliced
      1 sm Red onion -- thinly sliced
           Salt
      1 tb Roasted peanuts -- ground
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Cilantro sprigs
 
  *(Rau Cat Nho Tron Voi Trung Nong Thai Nho).
  
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Egg And Shredded Vegetable Salad  - Pt. 2
 Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  *(Rau Cat Nho Tron Voi Trung Nong Thai Nho).
  
  1.  Soak the vermicelli in warm water for 30 minutes, drain and cut
  into 2 inch lengths.  Soak the dried Chinese mushrooms in warm water
  for 30 minutes, squeeze, discard the stems, and slice thinly. 2. Make
  egg pancakes by beating together the eggs, Nuoc Mam sauce, black
  pepper, and about 1/2 teaspoon water in a bowl.  Heat the oil in a
  wok over a moderate heat. Pour in half of the egg mixture and
  immediately tilt the wok to spread the egg evently 3. Toss the sesame
  seeds in a dry wok over a moderate heat. Stir constantly until golden
  brown.  This should take about 3 minutes.  Set aside. 4. Combine the
  garlic, salt, vinegar, sugar, soy sauce, and sesame oil in a small
  bowl by stirring. Set this sauce aside. 5. Bring a saucepan of salted
  water to a boil and put in the noodles, snow peas, bamboo shoots, and
  mushrooms, and cook for 30 seconds.  Drain into a colander
  immediately and rununder cold water for a few seconds. Dry with a
  paper towel and set aside. 6. Mix the carrot, daikon, cucumber, bell
  peppers, celery, and red onion in a bowl, and sprinkle on some salt.
  Toss well and let stand for 30 minutes.  Rinse the salt off and
  squeeze the vegetables dry by hand to remove all excess liquid and
  dry with pa 7. Combine all the shredded vegetables with the blanced
  vegetables in a large salad bowl. Sprinkle the sauce over the
  mixture.  Toss well. Transfer the salad to a serving platter.
  Sprinkle the ground nuts and black pepper over the top and garnish
  with
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See part 1 for ingredients.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jellyfish, Chicken, And Cucumber Salad
 Categories: Poultry, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Dried jellyfish
      2    Cooked chicken breasts --
           Cut into strips
    1/2    Cucumber -- cut into thin
           Strips
      1 tb Chopped fresh mint
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
           Crushed roasted peanuts --
           For garnish

MMMMM----------------------NUOC CHAM SAUCE---------------------------
      2    Dried hot red chili -- cut
           Into pieces
      1    Clove garlic -- chopped
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2    Fresh lime juice
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Light soy sauce and
      1 ts Anchovy extract
      3 tb Water
 
  *(Dua Leo Tron Voi Sua Va Thit Ga).
  
  1.  Make the Nuoc Cham sauce by mixing the chilies, garlic, and
  sugar, and pounding.  Squeeze the lime over the mixture.  Add the
  Nuoc Mam sauce and water and stir thoroughly.  Set aside. 2. Soak the
  jellyfish in hot water for about 30 minutes.  Remove and soak in cold
  water for 2 hours, squeezing consantly to remove the salt. 3. Mix
  together the fellyfish, chicken, and cucumber.  Add the mint and
  cilantro. Add the dressing and toss. Sprinkle with the crushed
  peanuts. Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM
  INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc.
  Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on
  May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb In Hot Garlic Sauce (Thit Cuu An Voi Xot Toi Ot)
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Spinach  or any green
           Vegetable
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 lb Lean lamb -- thinly sliced
      4    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
           Freshly ground white pepper
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR 1 tbsp. light soy sauce
           And
      1    % buttermilk -- tsp. anchovy
           Extract
      1 tb Oyster sauce
           Fresh sprigs or mint and/or
           Cilantro -- for garnish
 
  1.  Blanch the greens in boiling water for 1 minute.  Drain and place
  on a serving dish. 2. Heat the oil in a wok and stir-fry the lamb
  until nearly cooked.  This should not take more than 2 minutes. Add
  the garlic, pepper, sugar, Nuoc mam sauce, and oyster sauce
  andstir-fry until the lamb is completely cooked and tender. 3. Pout
  the lamb and sauce over the greens. Garnish with mint and/or cilantro
  sprigs.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Liver W/Ginger And Cilantro (Gan Cuu Voi Fung Va Ngo
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lamb liver
           Cut into 1 1/2 inches wide
           Strips and
           Cut again crosswise into
           Strips 1/8 inch
           Thick
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lg Onion cut into wedges about
  1 1/2    " wide
      2 md Green sweet bell peppers --
           Halved
           Salt
      1 tb Sesame oil

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      2 ts Sugar
      2 lg Garlic cloves -- coarsely
           Chopped
      1 tb Fermented black beans,
           Rinsed -- and coarsely
           Chopped
      2 x  1 inch slices ginger root --
           Peeled and ground
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      1    Green onion -- coarsely
           Chopped
      2 ts Cornstarch mixed with 2 tbsp
           Water
 
  1.  Bring a large saucepan half full of water to a boil.  Put in the
  liver slices and stir until the water begins to puff into a boil
  again.  Drain the liver and hold under running cold water to stop the
  cooking.  Drain and set aside. 2 Combine the Nuoc Mam sauce, rice
  wine, and sugar, and stir until the sugar dissolves. 3. Heat a wok
  over high heat and add 1 tablespoon oil.  Scatter in the onions and
  peppers, and stir and toss vigorously until they are shining.
  Sprinkle in some salt and stir for about 1 minute until the onions
  are translucent. Transfer to a dish. 4. Wipe the wok, add the
  remaining oil and put in the garlic, black beans, ginger, cilantro,
  and green onions, and stir for about 30 seconds to sear them. Add the
  liver and stirfor a further 30 seconds. 5. Add the Nuoc mam mixture
  and toss and turn the meat.  Add the cooked vegetables and stir them
  around so they integrate with the meat.  Add the cornstarch to the
  wok, a little at a time, stirring constantly.  Sprinkle in the sesame
  oil, toss a couple o
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lobster And Sweet Potato Curry
 Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      1 lb Peeled sweet potatoes -- cut
           Into 1" cubes
      1 tb Sake or dry sherry
      1    Whole lobster -- chopped in
      1    " cubes

MMMMM------------------------CURRY SAUCE-----------------------------
      1 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 tb Minced garlic
      2 ts Shrimp paste
      1    Dried chili, seeds removed,
           Crushed
      2 ts Cumin seeds
      1 tb Coriander seeds
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Dried lemon grass -- sliced
      1 ts Ground galangal
      2 ts Minced lemon peel
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Ground turnmeric
      2 ts Sweet paprika
 
  * (Ca - Ri Tom Hum Voi Khoai Lang).
  
  1.  Make the curry sauce by heating the oil over medium-high heat.
  Add the onion and garlic, and cook for 5 minutes or until soft.  Add
  the shrimp paste and stir thoroughly, pressing the paste to blend it
  well. Cook for a further 3 or so minutes and rem 2. Grind the chili,
  cumin seeeds, coriander seeds, and lemon grass until powdery. 3.
  Place the monion mixture in a blender of food processor and blend
  until very smooth. Add the ground spices, galangal, lemon peel, fresh
  cilantro, salt, turmeric, and paprika.Blend until the mixture becomes
  a smooth paste. This makes about 1/4 cup cu 4. Melt the butter over
  medium heat and add the sweet potatoes. Cook for 15 minutes, taking
  care the potato does not burn. 5. Stir in the curry sauce and sake
  together until the curry mixture is dissolved. Add the lobster cubes
  and cook for 2-3 minutes.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lychee And Ginger Ice (Kem Trai Vai Voi Gung)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz Lychees in heavy syrup
    1/2 oz Ginger root -- peeled and
           Grated
    2/3 c  Water

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Fresh mint leaves
           Lychees
           Sponge ginger cookies --
           Optional
 
  1.  Put the lychees in a blender or food processor together with the
  ginger and water, and process to a fine puree.  Pour the mixture into
  a 9-inch square baking pan and put into the freezer for 3 hours. 2.
  Break the iced mixture into chunks and process again until slushy.
  Return to the baking pan and freeze once more until solid. 3. Allow
  the mixture to soften slightly (about 5 minutes) and scoop into 4
  champane glasses or rice bowls. 4.  Garnish with mint leaves,
  lychees, and a cookie, if desired.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lychee Sherbet (Tra Vai Da Lay Hot)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lychees
           OR
      4 oz Canned lychees
      1    Egg white
 
  1.  Peel the lychees and pit them.  Puree the flesh, adding some
  sugared water if necessary.  Pour into a container and freeze until
  nearly set. 2. Whip up the egg white.  Mix this into the nearly set
  lychee mixture. Put back into the freezer until solid.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lychee Slap (Trai Vai Dap)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Jar Chinese stem ginger --
           Drained
      4 oz Canned lychees
      1 tb Ginger wine
 
  1.  Insert a piece of the drained stem ginger into each lychee. 2.
  Mix the liquid from the stem ginger and the lychee syrup and add the
  ginger wine. Pour over the stuffed lychees.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mackerel Cooked In A Pot Lined With Pork
 Categories: Fish, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Mackerel -- cleaned &
           Quartered
      2    Pieces bean curd
           Salt
           Salt and pepper -- for
           Seasoning
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      4 oz Fresh pork sides -- cut into
           Threads
      4 oz Black Chinese mushrooms
           Soaked in warm water, cut
           Into threads
      1 c  Sliced bamboo shoots
      1    Red chili peppers --
           Chopped
      2 sl Ginger root -- chopped
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
    1/2 tb Wine cooler
  2 1/2 c  Water
      2    Green onions -- chopped
 
  * (Ca Ma - Ca - Ren Kho Coi Thit Ba Chi).
  
  1.  Chop the mackerel into slices about 1 inch thick. 2. Wash the bean
  curds gently with water, salt lightly to absorb the water and season.
  Cut the bean curds in half and then cut them into cubes. 3. Heat a
  wok and pour in 1 tablespoon oil to fry the bean curd cubes. Set
  aside. Heat 1 tablespoon oil and fry the mackerel until both sides
  turn golden brown. 4. Add the remaining oil.  Add the pork, black
  mushrooms, bamboo shoots, chili, ginger root, soy sauce, Nuoc Mam
  sauce, wine, and sugar and stir-fry. 5. Pour the contents of the wok
  into an earthenware pot or heavy pan, add the water and bring to a
  boil over a high heat. Reduce the heat to low and braise for 20
  minutes. Taste and add the green onions. Serve in the pot when
  cooked. Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM
  INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc.
  Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on
  May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mango Ice Cream (Kem Xoai)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Ripe mangoes
           OR
      4 oz Canned sliced mango
      1 c  Sugar
           OR
    1/2 c  If using canned mango
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Gelatin dissolved in 3 tbsp.
           Water
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream -- whipped until
           Stiff

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Extra mango slices
           Sprigs of fresh mint
 
  1.  Peel and cut the mangoes, discarding the pits.  Place in a bowl
  and add the sugar, lemon juice, and dissolved gelatin.  Mix
  thoroughly, making sure that the sugar is dissolved. 2. Fold the
  whipped cream into the mango mixture. Spoon into a tray and put into
  the freezer until half-frozen. Put in a blender of food processor and
  process until smooth. Return to freezer and freeze until solic. 3.
  Serve in scoops garnished with freshly sliced mango slices and sprigs
  of mint.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Quail In Honey (Chim Cut Uop Voi Mat Ong)
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Coriander seeds -- lightly
           Crushed
      2 tb Clear honey
      2    Onions -- sliced
  1 1/4 c  Dry cider
  1 1/4 c  Chili vinegar
      8    Quails
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Vegetable oil
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
           Chopped parsley -- for
           Garnish
 
  1.  Mix the coriander, honey, onion, cider, and vinegar in a large
  bowl (not a metal one).  Add the quails and marinate overnight. 2.
  Preheat the oven to 350.  Drain and reserve the marinade.  Dry the
  quails with paper towels.  Heat the butter and oil in a large
  casserole. Add the quails, 4 at a time, seasoning them with salt and
  black pepper. Brown on both sides. 3. Put all the birds in the
  casserole and pour the marinade over them. Cover and cook in the oven
  for 40-45 minutes, basting occasionally, or until tender.  Garnish
  with choppedparsley to serve.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Perfumed Rice (Com Gao Thom)
 Categories: Rice, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Thai perfumed rice
  2 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
 
  1.  Wash the rice several times and drain; when the washing is clear,
  the rice is as clean as it can possible be.  In large families rice
  needs washsing with both hands but cooking for a nuclear family does
  not require more than the rubbing of rice betwee
  
  2.  Put the rice and water in a saucepan, add the salt and bring
  quickly to a boil.  Reduce the heat immediately and cover.  Allow to
  simmer for as long as necessary - 30 minutes is about right.  The
  rice should be taken off the heat and allowed to rest f
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pigs' Feet Stew (Chan Mong Lon Ham)
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Pigs' feet
           Washed, blanched and
           Chopped
           Into 1 1/2 - 2 inch pieces
      5 c  Chicken or pork stock
      1 lg Onion -- sliced
      3    Boiled potatoes --
           Quartered
      2    Tomatoes -- diced
    1/2 c  Green beans or similar
           Vegetable -- sliced
      3 tb Breansprouts

MMMMM------------------VIETNAMESE BOUQUET GARNI-----------------------
      2 lg Celery stalks with leaves --
           Roughly chopped
      6 sm Cilantro plants with roots
           Roughly chopped
      2 lg Stalks lemon grass --
           Chopped
      1    Cinnamon stick
      2    Star anise
      1 tb Black peppercorns

MMMMM-------------------------TO GARNISH------------------------------
      3 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      3 tb Chopped green onions
 
  1.  Put the feet in a large saucepan and bring to a boil.  Allow to
  boil for about 20-30 minutes until the meat pulls away from the
  bones.  Drain. 2.  Put the feet back into the washed saucepan and add
  the stock and a little extra water if necessary to cover the meat.
  Bring to a boil.  Wrap the bouquet garni in a piece of bloth and tie
  to form a little bundle. Drop this into the saucepan when it s 3. Add
  the onion, potatoes, and tomatoes and simmer for a little while, just
  long enough for them to get warmed through but not long enough for
  them to disintegrate. Just beforeserving, add the beans and cook
  until they are just tender. 4. Remove the bouquet garni and stir in
  the beansprouts.  Sprinkle the garnish over the stew.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plain Rice (Com Thuong)
 Categories: Rice, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Long-grain white rice
  2 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
 
  1.  Wash the rice several times until the water runs clear. Drain
  properly and add the water and salt.  Bring to a boil.  Turn down the
  heat until it is just bubbling gently.  cover with a lid and leave to
  cook for about 20 minutes.  The Vietnamese believ
  
  2.  Turn off the heat, cover the saucepan once more and leave for
  about 10 minutes to give the rice time to absorb all moisture.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Hock And Peanut Stew (Khuy Chan Lon Ham Voi Lac)
 Categories: Meats, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Fresh pork hocks
      1    Smoked pork hock or ham
           Hock
    1/3 c  Fresh peanuts -- blanched
      4 x  1-inch slices peeled ginger
    1/2    " thick
      2 lg Green onions
      6 pt Water
           Salt
 
  1.  Put the fresh and smoked hocks, peanuts, ginger, and green onions
  into a large, heavy pot together with the water and bring to a boil
  over a high heat.  Turn down the heat to a simmer and skim off any
  scum.  Cover and simmer for 2 1/2 hours, stirring 2. Skim off scum
  and season with salt to taste.  Discard the ginger, green onions, and
  the hock bones, if so desired.  The meat may be served in chunks or
  cut into small pieces. Serve hot with a dip of Nuoc Mam sauce with a
  sprinkling of ground Szechuan
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poulet Citron (Ga Nau Chanh)
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Limes
           OR
      3    Lemons
    1/2 tb Chopped giner root
      2 tb Chopped lemon grass
    1/4 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
      1 lg Chicken, preferabley
           Corn-fed
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
           Salt
 
  1.  Preheat the oven to 400.  Remove the rind from one of the limes
  with a potato peeler.  Grind with the garlic, ginger, lemon grass,
  red pepper flakes, and Nuoc Mam sauce. 2. With your fingers,
  carefully loosen the skin on the chicken over the breast and legs.
  Spread the seasoning under the skin as evenly as you can. 3. Mix
  together the cayenne pepper and salt. Sprinkle some of the mixture in
  the cavity of the chicken and rub the rest on the skin.  Prick both
  limes - peeled and unpeeled - all over with a fork.  Place the limes
  in the chicken cavity. 4. Place the bird, breat down, in a roasting
  pan (not on a rack).  Roast the chicken for 30 minutes. Then turn the
  bird breast up and roast for a further hour, basting with the pan
  juices very 15 minutes. 5. After cooking, let the chicken rest for 5
  minutes.  Remove, discard the limws, and cut the chicken into bite
  sized pieces.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Spareribs With Lemon Gras And Chili
 Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12    Pork spareribs
      2 tb Clear honey
      1 ts Five-spice powder
      2    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped and crushed
      3 tb Dry sherry or rice wine
      3 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      3 tb Light soy sauce mixed with
      1 ts Anchovy extract
      2    Stalks fresh lemon grass --
           Sliced thinly
           OR grated peel of 1 lemon
      2    Fresh red chili peppers --
           Finely chopped
 
  *(Thit Suon Nuong Voi Sa Va Ot).
  
  1.  Wash and dry the spareribs and place them in a large bowl. 2.  In
  another bowl, combine the honey, five-spice powser, garlic, dry
  sherry, Nuoc Mam, lemon gras, and chili. Mix well.  Spread the honey
  mixture over the spareribs and leave to marinate for 3. The ribs can
  be cooked over a barbecue, turning frequently and basting with the
  marinade; or baked in the oven at 375 degrees, basting with the
  marinade; or broiled under a moderately hot broiler, basting with the
  marinade.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Lamb With Eggplant In A Sauce
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Eggplants -- ends cut off
           -thickly sliced
      3 tb Olive oil
      8    Lamb cutlets -- trimmed and
           Sliced
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
      6 lg Tomatoes
           Blanched, skinned -- thickly
           Sliced
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Chopped fresh mint
      3 c  Natural yogurt
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1    Lemon -- sliced
           Sprigs of mint
           Thickly sliced
 
  1.  Sprinkle salt over the eggplant and leave for 20 minutes.  Rinse
  the eggplant and dry with paper towels. 2. Heat 2 tablespoons olive
  oil in a wok over a very high heat and add the lamb cutlets. When
  brown, lower the heat and continue cooking until the meat is tender -
  about 5 minutes on each side.  Remove from the wok, drain on paper
  towels and keep in a w 3. Add the remaining oil to the wok and fry
  the eggplant slices with the garlic until they are lightly browned on
  both sides.  (If the oil dries out, add a little more.)  When they
  are cooked, push them up the side of the wok and add the tomato
  slices. 4. Place the vegetables on a dish and arrange the cutlets
  over the vegetables. Garnish with lemon slices and sprigs of mint. 5.
  Prepare the sauce by stirring the minto into the yogurt. Grind some
  black pepper over it and serve in a small bowl. Recipe Source:
  VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do
  Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe
  formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops Broiled In Pork Fat With Nuoc Mam Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Scallops -- cleaned &
           Quartered
     12 ts Salt
           Juice of 1 lime or lemon
      1    Piece fresh pork fat
           OR
      8    Bacon slices rind
      4 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      4 tb Maggi liquid seasoning mixed
           WITH:
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Clove garlice, diced
    1/2    Green onion, thinly chopped
 
  * (So Nuong Voi Mo Heo An Voi Nuoc Mam).
  
  1.  Cover the scallops with water and add the salt and lime or lemon
  juice. Simmer for 1-2 minutes (do not overcook).  Remove the scallops
  from the liquid and drain them. 2. Place each scallop in a shell or
  heatproof dish, place some pork or bacon rind on the scallops and put
  under a preheated high broiler for at most 4 minutes. The pork fat
  should drip down on to the scallops, giving them a smoky pork flavor.
  Remove an
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops Stuffed With Shrimp Paste (So Don Cha Tom)
 Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12    Scallops -- cleaned &
           Quartered
           Vegetable oil -- for frying

MMMMM-------------------SHRIMP PASTE STUFFING------------------------
      1 tb Dried shrimp, soaked in
           Water until soft
           Soaked in water until soft,
           Drained, -- and finely
           Chopped
           OR
     20    Defrosted frozen shrimp --
           Finely chopped
      2 sm Pieces of black wood ear
           Fungus
           Soaked in warm water until
           Soft, drained -- and finely
           Chopped
      4 oz Sweet potato -- boiled and
           Mashed
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Light soy sauce
 
  1.  Make the shrimp paste stuffing by combining all the stuffing
  ingredients together. 2. Steam the scallops until cooked - about 5
  minutes in a bamboo steamer.
   Remove and leave to cool. 3. Slit the scallops intheir thickest part
  and spoon in the stuffing. Heat the oil until very hot. Gently lower
  the stuffed scallops in a basket and fry for 2 minutes.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shan Lee Salad (Mon Tron Shan Lee)
 Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Sesame seed oil
      3 tb Freshly squeezed orange
           Juice
      1    Butterhead lettuce
           Leaves washed and separated
      4 tb Bamboo shoots
 
  1.  Mix othe sesame oil and orange juice together, and toss into the
  salad leaves and bamboo shoots.  Serves as a simple accompaniment to
  the sate dishes or Stuffed Chicken Wings. Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE
  COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do Van.
  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe
  formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp And Ground Pork On Sugar Cane
 Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Dried shrimp -- optional
  1 1/3 c  Pelled shrimp
    3/4 c  Ground pork
      1 sm Onion -- finely chopped
      2 tb Finely chopped cilantro
           Leaves
           Salt and pepper
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Maggi liquid seasoning
           Mixed with 1/2 tbsp. lemon
           Juice,
      2    Crushed anchoviesor
    1/2 tb Anchovy extract,
      1    Garlic clove, crushed and
           Dried,
           And 1/4 green onion, finely
           Chopped
      1    Egg -- beaten
      4 x  6-inch LENGTHS OF SUGAR
           CANE
           OR bamboo skewers
           All-purpose flour
           OR cornstarch -- optional
           Vegetable oil -- for deep
           Frying

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Butterhead lettuce
           Optional
 
  * (Chao Tom Voi Thit Lon Xay).
  
  1.  If using dried shrimp, soak for about 1 hour in warm water.
  Squeeze out excess water and chop finely.  Wash the fresh shrimp and
  chop finely. 2.  Put the ground pork into a large bowl.  Add the
  onion, cilantro, fresh and dried shrimp, salt and pepper, and Nuac
  Mam sauce. 3. Pour the egg into the pork and shrimp mixture, and mix
  well with your hand. The mixture should come together so that it can
  be molded around the lengths of sugar cane, or around bamboo skewers.
  It is is too runny, sift a little all-purpose flour or 4. Peel the
  sugar cane, leaving 1 inch of the green covering on at each end, or 2
  inch at one end. Mold the mixture on to the peeled part of the sugar
  cane. 5. Broil the sticks under a moderately hot broiler, turning to
  ensure evenness in the cooking. Make sure that the sugar cane does
  not burn. Alternatively, deep-fry in hot oil for 4-5 minutes. 6.
  Serve on a bed of lettuce. The sugar cane should be chewed or suched
  as you eat the shrimp and pork.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp And Scallop Sate (Sa-Te Tom Va So)
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Dry sherry or dry white
           Wine
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      1 tb Chopped dill
           Salt -- to taste
     12 lg Scallops -- washed
     12 lg Whrimp in their shells
      1    Cucumber -- cut in 1/2"
           Slices

MMMMM-----------------SPICY TOMATO DIPPING SAUCE----------------------
      1 lg Onion -- finely chopped
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- chopped and
           Crushed
      2    Fresh chili peppers --
           Finely chopped
      6    Tomatoes -- skinned
      1 tb Chopped sweet basil
 
  1.  Place the sherry, vinegar, dill, and salt in a pan and bring to a
  boil. Reduce the heat to a simmer and add the scallops.  Allow to
  simmer for 2 minutes.  Remove the scallopsand keep the liquid to use
  as the baste when barbecuing. 2. Skewer the shrimp, cucumber, and
  scallops alternately so that each skewer has three shrimp, three
  scallops, and three pieces of cucumber. Leave, covered, in a
  refrigerator. Gently fry the onions in the oil for 3 minutes.  Add
  the garlic and fry for a further minute. Add the chili and tomatoes
  and fry for another 5 minutes. Add the basil leaves and stir. Remove
  from the heat and leave to cool. 4. Place the sate on the barbecue or
  under a preheated high broiler and cook for 3-4 minutes on each side.
  Baste frequently with the reserved cooking liquid.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Balls (Tom Heo Vien)
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Shrimp -- ground
      1 sm Hard-boiled egg -- finely
           Ground
      1 sm Onion -- finely ground
      1    Egg -- beaten
           Salt and pepper
 
  1.  Mix all the ingredients using your hand, then shape into small
  balls. Drop into the simmering broth to cook.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Crystal Spring Rolls (Banh Cuon Tom Viet Nam) Pt. 
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Cooked crispy roast pork
           OR
      4    Fresh boneless pork slices
      3 tb Clear honey
      2 tb Dry sherry
      1 ts Chili powder
      8 oz Rice vermicelli
      1 lb Fresh shrimp -- cooked and
           Halved
      1 c  Finely chopped cooked
           Chicken
      3    Pickled onions -- cut into
           Fine strips
      3    Dill pickles -- cut into
           Fine strips
      1    Carrot -- grated
      1 pk Round Banh Trang rice paper

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Nuac Mam sauce
           OR Maggi liquid seasoning
      1    Red chili peppers -- finely
           Chopped
      2    To 3 tbsp. lemon juice
      2 ts Wine vinegar
      2 ts Ginger wine
      1 ts Sugar

MMMMM--------------------------TO SERVE-------------------------------
      1    Butterhead lettuce
           Cilantro sprigs
           Mint sprigs
 
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Crystal Spring Rolls (Banh Cuon Tom Viet Nam) Pt. 
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  1.  To make the cold crispy pork, take the four slices of fresh
  boneless pork. Mix the honey, dry sherry, and chili powder
  thoroughly.  Spread the mixture over the pork.  Allow torest for 1
  hour or longer if possible. 2. Broil the pork slices until really
  crisp.  Turn often so that they are evenly cooked. Allow to cool and
  cut into thin strips. 3. Make the dipping sauce by combining al of
  the ingredients and mixing thoroughly. 4. Soak the rice vermicelli in
  boiled water, slightly cooled. When soft drain thoroughly and leave
  to cool. 5.  Place a clean tea towel on the surface you are working
  on.  Dip single sheets of Banh Trang into warm water and place on the
  tea towel. They s 6. Place the cold, rolled, transparent spring rolls
  on a platter.  Guest help themselves to lettuce leaves, one at a
  time.  The roll is placed on the leaf and some mint and cilantro are
  added.  The whole is rolled up and dipped in the dipping sauce.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Fried Rice (Com Chien Voi Tom)
 Categories: Rice, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Shrimp -- peeled
      1    Green onion -- chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh button mushrooms
      1    Zucchini -- thinly sliced
    1/2    Carrot -- thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Green beans -- cut into 1"
           Lengths
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 ts Light soy sauce
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Salt
  1 1/4 lb Plain boiled rice
      2    Green onions
           Neatly chopped into rounds
           For garnish
 
  1.  Heat 1/2 tablespoon oil in a wok and stir-fry the shrimp for 1
  minute.
   Remove and set aside. 2. Add the remaining oil and sweat the green
  onion. Add the mushrooms and the other vegetables and stir-fry for 2
  minutes over a high heat. 3. Put the shrimp back into the wok with
  the vegetables and add the rest of the ingredients except the rice,
  continuing all the while to stir. 4. Add the rice and stir-fry until
  the rice has changed color. Place in a large serving bowl and garnish
  with the chopped green onions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Pho (Pho Tom)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Pieces black wood ear
           Fungus
           OR
      8    Button mushrooms
  3 3/4 c  Fish stock* -- see note
      2    Cucumbers -- peeled and
           Deveined
      6 oz Bean thread vermicelli or
           Spaghetti
  1 1/3 c  Fresh shrimp -- cooked and
           Peeled
    2/3 c  Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      4 tb Maggi liwuid seasoning mixed
           With
      2 tb Lemon juice, 2 crushed
           Anchovies or 1/2 tbsp.
           Anchovy
           Extract, 1 garlic clove,
           Diced, and 1/4
           Green onion, finely chopped
      4 lg Cooked unpeeled shrimp --
           For garnish
 
  1.   Soak the black wood ear fungus for 10 minutes or until soft in
  nearly boiling water.  When soft, slice thinly and place in stock.
  Add the button mushrooms to the stock is using those instead.  Put
  into a dish and place on the table. 2. Slice the cucumber into thin
  rounds or cut into fine matchsticks. Place in a dish and put on the
  table. 3. Soak the vermicelli in water that has been boiled and
  allowed to cool slightly (about 5 minutes).  Drain and place in four
  bowls. 4. Place the shrimp in a bowl and put on the table.  Meanwhile
  boil and simmer the stock. 5. The gusts garnish their bowls with the
  ingredients in the dishes placed on the table, then pour the hot
  stock over the whole.  The Nuac Mam sauce is added to taste and the
  soup bowls are garnished with the unpeeled shrimp.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp With Sesame Seeds On Toast (Chao Tom Voi Me)
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb White sesame seeds
    1/2 tb Dried shrimp -- optional
      1 c  Peeled shrimp -- finely
           Chopped
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed and
           Chopped
    1/2 ts Grated fresh ginger root
      1 sm Onion -- grated
      1 sm Egg -- beaten
           Salt and black pepper
           Cornstarch -- for dusting
      1    Thin
           OR
      8 sl Bread -- crusts cut off
           Vegetable oil -- for deep
           Frying
           French baguette
 
  1.  Toast the sesame seeds in a dry pan until they begin to brown,
  shaking frequently to prevent them from burning. 2. If using dried
  shrimp, soak in warm water until soft. Drain thoroughly and squeeze
  out excess water. Chop them finely. Combine the dried and fresh
  shrimp, garlic, ginger, grated onion, egg, salt, and black pepper,
  and knead together with your hands. The mixture should be stiff but
  not too stiff to spread. If it is too runny, dust with the
  cornstarch. 3. Cut the French bread into 1/2 inch slices or cut the
  slices of bread into triangles or shape using pastry cutters. Press
  the sesame  seeds firmly into the shrimp mixture, using the back of a
  wooden spoon so that the shrimp mixture is also pressed fir
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Simple Salad (Rau Tron Don Gian)
 Categories: Salads, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Lettuce -- finely shredded
      1    Cucumber
           Peeled and cut lengthwise
           Into thin strips
      2    Carrots
           Peeled and cut lengthwise
           Into thin strips
      1 lg Handful of beansprouts
           Washed and drained
           Thoroughly
      3 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      3 tb Chopped fresh mint
      2    Hard-boiled eggs -- for
           Garnish

MMMMM-----------------------SALAD DRESSING----------------------------
      4 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      3 tb Maggi liquid seasoning
      4 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      3    Cloves garlic -- finely
           -chopped and crushed
      1 ts Sugar
      1    Red chili peppers -- finely
           Chopped
      3 tb Roasted peanuts -- crushed
 
  1.  Combine the lettuce, cucumber, carrots, and beansprouts.  Mis
  lightly. 2.  Mix the Nuac Mam sauce, lemon juice, and vinegar.  Add
  the garlic and sugar and stir thoroughly, then add the chili and
  peanuts, and stir again. 3.  Toss the dressing into the salad ans
  scatter the cilantro and mint over the top.  Garnish with the egg
  quarters.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Barbecued Chicken Legs (Chan Ga Nau Voi Gia Vi)
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Chicken legs
           Preferably from corn-fed
           Chickens
      1 tb Sesame oil

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3    Cloves garlic -- crushed
      4    Green onions -- finely
           Chopped
      1    Stalk lemon grass -- finely
           Chopped
      2    Red or green chili peppers
           Finely chopped
           OR
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR  Maggi liquid seasoning
      1 ts Sugar
           Salt

MMMMM-------------------------LEMON DIP------------------------------
      2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      2    Lemons -- quartered
 
  1.  Place the chicken legs on a wooden board and, using a sharp
  knife, stab them in several places.  This helps them absorb the
  marinade and prevents the skin from breaking. 2. Make the marinade by
  heating the vegetable oil and adding the garlic, green onions, and
  lemon grass. Cool for between 2-3 minutes then leave to cool. Stir in
  the chili, Nuocmam, sugar, and salt. 3. Put the chicken legs in a
  shallow dish and pour the marinade over. Cover the dish and marinate
  for 2 hours, turning from time to time. 4. Brush liberally with
  sesame oil and put on a barbecue or under a preheated moderate
  broiler for 15-20 minutes, turning frequently and brushing with oil.
  5. Serve immediately with lemon dip and pickled vegetables. Guests
  make their own dip by mixing salt and pepper, and moistening with a
  quarter of lemon.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Beef Stew (Thit Bow Ham Gia Vi)
 Categories: Meats, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      2 md Onions -- finely chopped
      5    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
     10    Green onions -- dead skin
           Peeled off
      1    Stalk lemon grass
           Cut into 2 inch sections and
           Crushed
      2 lb Stewing beef -- cut into 1"
           Cubes
      5 c  Water
     13 c  Yellow bean sauce -- chopped
           And crushed
      1 ts Chili powder
      4    Star anise
      1    Inch cinamon stick
    1/2 ts Whole peppercorns
           Sugar
 
  1.  Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a wok over a medium high heat.  Put in
  the onions, garlic, and whole green onions and stir-fry for 2
  minutes.  Add the lemon grass and continue to stir until the onions
  become lightly brown, remove the green onions and set asi 2. Heat the
  remaining oil over a high heat.  Stir-fry as many pieces of beef as
  are convenient until they are brown, turning them over from time to
  time. Continue unitl all the beef has been cooked. 3. Add the water.
  Add the lemon grass mixture, yellow bean sauce, chili powder, star
  anise, cinnamon, peppercorns, and sugar, and bring to a boil.
   Cover and lower the heat to simmer gently for 1 1/2 hours. 4. Add the
  reserved green onions; cover again and allow to simmer for a further
  15 minutes or until the sauce has thickened a little and the meat is
  tender.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Beef Stew Ii (Thit Bo Ham Gia Vi)
 Categories: Meats, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Stewing beef -- cut into 2"
           Cubes
      2    Stalks lemon grass, sliced
           Paper-thin and -- and finely
           Chopped
      2    Fresh red chili pepper,
           Minced
      2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Grated fresh ginger
      2 ts Ground cinnamon
      2 ts Curry powder
      3 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      3 tb Light soy sauce and 1/2 tsp
           Anchovy extract
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
  4 1/2    Vegetable oil
      1 lg Onion -- minced
      6    Cloves garlic -- minced
    1/2 c  Tomato paste
      4    Star anise
      5 c  Water
      2 md Carrots -- cut into 1"
           Chunks
      2 md Peeled potatoes -- cut into
      1    " chunks
      1 sm Daikon (white Chinese
           Radish), peeled -- cut into
      1    " chunks
 
  1.  Mix the beef, lemon grass, chilies, sugar, ginger, cinnamon, curry
  powder, Nuoc Mam sauce, salt, and black pepper, and leave to stand
  for 1 hour. 2. Heat 4 tablespoons oil in the wok over a high heat.
  Add the beef and marinade and stir quickly to sear. This should not
  take much more than 2 minutes. Remove the meat to a bowl and set
  aside. 3. Add a little more oil and, when hot, add the onion and
  garlic and stir-fry until fragrant. Add the tomato paste and stir for
  2 minutes. Add the beef, star anise, a little salt, and the water.
  Bring the mixture to a boil, reduce the heat to low, cov 4. Add the
  carrots and simmer for 10 minutes. Add the potatoes and simmer for a
  further 10 minutes. finally, add the daikon and cook for another 10
  minutes.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Broiled Pork On A Bed Of Vermicelli
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Rice vermicelli
      1 lb Fresh pork sides with skin
           Cut against the grain into
    1/4    " strips,
           About 2 inches long
      1 lb Beef -- ground
      8    Cloves garlic -- minced

MMMMM------------------------CRAMEL SAUCE-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR Maggi sauce and 1/2
           Teaspoon
           Anchovy extract, mixed
           Thoroughly
      4    Green onions -- thinly
           Sliced
           Fresh ground black pepper
 
  *(Thit Bo Thit Lon Nuong Voi Gia Vi An Voi Bun).
  
  1.  Soak the vermicelli in warm water until soft.  Drain and set
  aside. 2. Make the caramel sauce by swirling the sugar gently in a
  wok over a hot heat.  Be careful not to let the sugar blacken but
  ignore the smoke. Remove from the heat and add the Nuoc Mam sauce or
  Maggi substitute. Return to a low heat and gently boil un 3. Put 24
  bamboo skewers into water and allow to soak for at least 30 minutes.
  4. Meanwhile, put the pork and beef into two separate bowls.  Put the
  garlic and half of the caramel sauce onto the beef.  Put the
  remainder of the caramel sauce onto the pork. Blendd both with the
  hand and allow to stand for 30 minutes. Make 24 meatba 5. Skewer the
  beef balls and pork slices and cook under a hot broiler for 15-20
  minutes turning frequently.  Place on the bed of vermicelli.  Serve
  with a Vegetable Platter (see Crispy Roast Duck with Pancakes and
  Fresh Herbs.)
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Eggplant And Tomatoes (Ca Tim Gia Vi Voi Ca Chua)
 Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Eggplant
      2    Cloves garlic -- thinly
           Sliced
      2    Red bell peppers
      1 md Tomato -- thinly sliced
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR 1 tbsp. Maggi liquid
           Seasoning
           And 1/2 tsp.  anchovy
           Extract
      2 tb Rice wine
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  1.  Preheat the oven to 400. 2. Cut slits all over the eggplant and
  push a slice of garlic into each slit. Place the eggplant and the
  whole bell peppers in a baking dish and bake, turning regularly to
  brownevenly, for 45 minutes or until all are very soft. Set aside to
  cool. 3. Cut the stem off the eggplant and with your fingers or a
  paring knife, peel off the skin. Shred the flesh, discarding any big
  lumps of seeds. Place the eggplant in a bowl with the garlic slices.
  4. Peel the skin off the bell peppers and discard the stesm, cores
  and seeds. Cut into long, thin strips and add to the eggplant.  Add
  the tomato, Nuoc Mam sauce, rice wine, andolive oil, and toss to mix
  well.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Fried Noodles (Mi Xao Gia Vi)
 Categories: Pasta, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      4 oz Pork -- sliced
      4 lg Shrimp -- peeled and
           Deveined, with tail intact
      1 tb Dried shrimp
      2 tb Pickled white radish --
           Finely chopped
    1/2 c  Diced bean curd
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce and 1/2
           Teaspoon
           Anchovy extract
      3 tb Sugar
      6 oz Rice stick noodles
           (preferably the thicker
           Ones), soaked in
           Warm water for 15 minutes --
           Drained well
      2    Eggs -- beaten
      1 c  Beansprouts
      3 tb Crushed peanuts
      2 tb Chopped green onions
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
    1/2 ts Roasted chili powder or
           Flakes
           Lemon wedges
 
  1.  Heat the oil in a wok and gently stir-fry the garlic for 3-4
  minutes until golden brown.  Increase the heat, add the pork and fry
  for 6 minutes until cooked.  Add the shrimp, dried shrimp, and
  pickled radish, and continue stir-frying for 1 minute.  Ad 2. Add the
  noodles and stir the mixture thoroughly for 1-2 minutes.  Push to one
  side and quickly add the beaten eggs.  Once they begin to set, stir
  them, effectively scrambling them.  Push to one side. 3. Place most
  of the beansprouts and a handful of crushed peanuts, green onions,
  and cilantro over the noodles. Stir these in with the scrambled eggs
  and noodles. Serve on a large plate with little mounds of
  beansprouts, peanuts, green onion, cilantro, Recipe Source:
  VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do
  Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe
  formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Crab With Light Wine Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Crab claws
      2    Stalks peeled lemon grass --
           Finely chopped
           OR
           Grated peel of 1 lemon
      1 sl Peeled fresh ginger root --
           Finely chopped

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      4 tb Rice wine, dry sherry, or
           Dry white wine
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Sesame seed oil
      1 tb Lemon grass -- finely
           Chopped
    1/2 tb Green onions -- finely
           Chopped
 
  *(Cua Hap Voi Nuoc Xot Co Ruou).
  
  1.  Break open the crab claws by placing a newspaper on top and
  tapping with the back of a cleaver or a steak mallet.  Carefully
  extract the flesh and discard any shell and cartilage.  Place in a
  bowl and flake with a fork. 2. Add the lemon grass and ginger. Mix
  well, conver, and steam for about 15 minutes. 3. Mix together the
  sauce ingredients and serve separately.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Ground Pork And Eggplant
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Eggplant -- about 12 ounces
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
    1/2 ts Vegetable oil
      1 sm Onion thinly sliced  and
           Then
           Coarsely chopped
      1    Egg -- lightly beaten
      2 c  Ground pork
      1 tb Gherkin or pickles --
           Chopped
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
 
  *(Thit Lon Xay Hap Voi Ca Tim).
  
  1.  Peel the eggplant, slice into pieces about 1/2" thick and then
  chop into 1-inch pieces.  Sprinkle and rub with salt and pepper, and
  a little oil. 2. Mix the onion, egg, pork, dill pickle, sugar, Nuoc
  Mam sauce, cornstarch, rice wine, and a little salt.  Mix with a
  wooden spoon until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed. 3. Place the
  eggplant pieces at the bottom of a bowl and pack the pork mixture on
  top of the eggplant so that no vegetable shows above the surface. 4.
  Place the bowl in a steamer over the wok and steam vigorously for 45
  minutes. If you don't have a steamer, use the largest pan you have.
  Turn a fair-sized bowl upside down and place it in the bottom.  Put
  the bowl containing the pork and eggplant on
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Ground Pork With Saltfish
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 oz Saltfish
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
      1 lb Lean pork -- ground
      1 tb Sesame oil

MMMMM-------------------------SEASONINGS------------------------------
      1 ts Minced green onions -- white
           Part only
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1    Egg -- well beaten
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb All-purpose flour
 
  *(Thit Lon Xay Hap Voi Ca Muoi).
  
  1.  Soak the saltfish overnight, taking care to change the water at
  least once.  Strip off the dark skin and discard.  Shred the
  saltfish, rinse, and squeeze dry.  Chop it roughlyand put it in a
  mixing bowl with the Nuoc Mam sauce and sugar, stir and then 2. Chop
  the ground pork until it is smooth. Scoop into a mixing bowl and add
  the green onions, soy sauce, rice wine, sugar, salt and black pepper,
  and sesame oil. Blend thoroughly. Add the beaten egg, a little at a
  time, mixing all the while. Sprinkl 3. Squeeze the saltfish to remove
  excess moisture.  Add 1 tablespoon sesame oil and mix thoroughly.
  Divide into 16 portions. 4. Grease your palms with oil and place one
  portion of meat in the palm of one hand. Flatten with the fingers of
  the other hand.  Put a portion of saltfish in the center and fold the
  meat over it.  Roll lightly into a ball. Make 16 balls. 5. Steam the
  balls over a high heat for at least 15 minutes and transfer them to a
  serving dish with the meat juices.  Delightful.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stewed Chicken Feet With A Murshroom & Spring Onion Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 oz Dried Chinese mushrooms
           Salt
    2/3 ts Sugar
           Vegetable oil -- for deep
           Frying
     12    Chicken feet, scrubbed,
           Claws trimmed off
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      3 sl Ginger root -- peeled
      2    Green onions
      2    Cloves garlic
           Parsley -- for garnish

MMMMM-------------------------SEASONING------------------------------
      1 tb White wine
    1/2 c  Mushroom water
      1 ts Light soy sauce
      1 ts Oyster sauce
      1 ts Nuoc Mam sauce -- optional
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Black pepper
           Salt
      1 ts Cornstarch mixed with a
           Little water
 
  * (Chan Ga Hap An Voi Xot Nam Hanh La).
  
  1.  Wash the dried Chinese mushrooms and soak them for 2 hours.
  Squeeze out the excess water and retain as stock.  Marinate for 1/2
  hour with salt, sugar, and 1 tablespoon oil.  Steam for 12 minutes.
  2. Blanch the chicken feet in boiling water for 5 minutes.  Remove
  and coat with dark soy sauce. Deep-fry in hot oil until golden.
  Drain, leaving 2 tablespoons oil for sauteing. 3. Grind the ginger,
  green onions, and garlic. Heat the reserved oil in a casserole and
  saute the ginger, gree nonion, and garlic until fragrant. Add the
  chicken feet and stir-fry. 4. In a casserole sizzle the wine, add the
  mushroom water and seasoning except for the cornstarch and stew for
  an hour.  Mix in the mushrooms and simmer for 15 minutes. Remove the
  lid and thicken the sauce with the cornstarch. Serve hot in the
  casserol
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sticky Rice (Xoi)
 Categories: Rice, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     14 oz Glutinous rice
           (specified on package)
      1 ts Salt
 
  METHOD 1
  
  1.  Rinse and drain the rice after soaking overnight.  Spread the
  soaked rice mixed with the salt over a dampened cheesecloth in the
  top of a steamer and steam for about 40 minutes, sprinkling water
  over it occasionally.  Taste while cooking for consisten
  
  METHOD 2
  
  1.  Boil about 3 cups water in a thick saucepan.  Add the rice and
  salt and bring it back to a boil.  Let it boil for 1 minute or so and
  then cover it with a well-fitting lid.  Take it off the heat and hold
  the lid tightly on the saucepan.  Turn it over a 2. Return to a very
  low heat and allow the rice to cook for about 20 minutes. After
  cooking, set it aside for 10 minutes to complete the cooking. When
  ready to serve, fluff it up with a ladle or chopsticks, whichever you
  prefer.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Beef With Peppers And Bamboo Shoots
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Rump steak -- thinly sliced
      3    Green onions -- cut in 1/2"
           Lengths
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
      1 c  Canned bamboo shoots --
           Sliced
      1 lg Green sweet bell pepper --
           Seeded and sliced
      2 tb Nuoc mam sauce
           OR 2 tbsp. light soy sauce
           And
      1 ts Anchovy extract -- salted to
           Taste
    2/3 c  Beef stock
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Cornstarch mixed with a
           Little water
 
  *(Thit Bo Xao Nhanh Voi Mang Va Ot Ngot).
  
  1.  Heat the oil in a wok over a high heat, add the beef and stir-fry
  for 2-3 minutes, stirring all the while, to seal in the flavors of
  the meat. Scoop out the beef and place itin a warm oven. 2. Add the
  green onions and garlic to the wok and stir-fry over a moderate heat
  for 3 minutes. Increase the heat to high, stir in the bamboo shoots
  and pepper, and stir-fry for 1-2 minutes. 3. Stir in the Nuoc Mam
  sauce, stock, and sugar. Cover and cook for 3 minutes. Return the
  beef to the wok and stir for 1 minute. Add the cornstarch to the beef
  mixture and stir constantly until the mixture thickens.  Serve
  immediately.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Lamb With Ginger (Thit Cuu Xao Voi Gung)
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Chicken stock
      1 md Carrot -- diced in 1/2"
           Cubes
      1 tb Buter
    3/4 c  Green peas
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 sl Ginger root -- minced
      1 lb Lamb -- chopped/1/2" cubes
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR 1 tbsp. Maggi liquid
           Seasoning
           And 1/2 tsp. anchovy
           Extract
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 tb Hoisin sauce
           Salt
      2 ts Cornstarch mixed with a
           Little water
 
  1.  Heat the stock in a wok over a medium heat.  Add the carrot and
  cook until the liquid has nearly disappeared.  Add the butter and
  peas, and leave to cook for a further 2 minutes, stirring
  occasionally.  Scoop out and leave in a bowl. 2. Heat the oil in the
  wok on a high heat and add the ginger and lamb. Stir quickly for
  about 1 minute and then add the Nuoc Mam sauce, sugar, hoisin sauce,
  and salt. Continue stirring for 1 minute and then stir in the
  cornstarch. 3. When the cornstarch thickens, it will give the lamb a
  beautiful gloss.
   At this stage add the carrots and peas.  Stir and mix for 30 seconds
  and serve immediately.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Lamb With Mint And Chili
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 lb Lean lamb -- cut in fine
           Strips
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      1 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR 1 tbsp. Maggi liquid
           Seasoning
           And 1/2 tsp. anchovy
           Extract
        pn Sugar
      1 tb Fresh red chili pepper --
           Finely sliced
      5 tb Fresh mint leaves -- sliced
           If large
 
  *(Thit Cuu Xao Voi Rau Thom Va Ot).
  
  1.  Heat the oil in a wok and stir-fry the lamb for several minutes
  until almost cooked.  Add the garlic, oyster sauce, Nuoc Mam sauce,
  sugar, and chili and stir-fry for another 2minutes or so. Taste to
  see if extra seasoning is necessary and adjust. 2. When the meat is
  cooked and tender, stir the mint leaves through, remove and serve on
  a dish.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Mixed Vegetables In A Nuoc Mam Sauce
 Categories: Vegetables, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Carrots -- finely sliced
      1 c  Bamboo shoots -- thinly
           Sliced
      1    Pak-choy (Chinese cabbage)
           Stems only, diced
      1 c  Green beans -- halved
      1 oz Wood ear fungus
           Soaked in warm water for 15
           Minutes -- and roughly
           Chopped
    1/2 ts Vegetable oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
      3 sl Peeled ginger -- cut in
           Slivers
      2 c  Beansprouts
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR 1 tbsp. light soy sauce
 
  *(Rau Thap Cam Xao Voi Nuoc Mam).
  
  1.  In a large saucepan half full of water, boil the carrots for 10
  minutes.  Add the bamboo shoots, Chinese cabbage, green beans, and
  wood ear fungus, and cook for a further 5 minutes.  Drain and
  reserve. 2. Heat the oil in a wok and stir-fry the garlic and ginger
  for 2 minutes. Add the beansprouts and stir-fry for 30 seconds.  Stir
  in all the reserved vegetables and season with salt and black pepper.
  Stir-fry for 2 minutes. Mix the cornstarch and Nuoc
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Noodles And Beansprouts (Mi Xao Voi Gia)
 Categories: Pasta, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 sm Onions -- thinly sliced
      4    Cloves garlic -- chopped
      1 c  Bean sprouts
      6 oz Cellophane noodles
           Soaked in warm water for 30
           Minutes
           Drained and cut into 3-inch
           Lengths
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
      2    Green onions -- thinly
           Sliced
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  1.  Heat the oil in a wok over high heat.  Add the onions and garlic,
  and saute for 2 minutes or so until the edges begin to brown. 2. Add
  the beansprouts and stir-fry for 30 seconds.  Add the noodles and
  stir-fry for 1 minute.  Stir in the chicken stock and Nuoc Mam sauce,
  and toss to combine.  Add the greenonions and remove from heat.
  Serve on a serving dish with cilantro and blac
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Pork Slices & Celery (Thit Lon Xao Voi Can Tay
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Lean pork
           Thinly sliced and but in 1
    1/2    " pieces
      1 ts Soy sauce
      1 ts Sugqr
      2 c  Button mushrooms
    1/2 lb Spring cabbage, cut in 2
           Inch slices
           With tougher stems
           Discarded
      4    Celery stalks -- sliced
           Thinly
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce -- optional
      3 tb Chicken stock
           Cornstarch
           Salt
 
  1.  Heat 1 tablespoon oil in the wok, add the pork and stir-fry over
  highest heat for 2 1/2 minutes or longer if the pork needs more
  cooking. Add the soy sauce and sugar, and stir with the pork for a
  further 2 minutes.  Scoop into a bowl and keep in a wa 2. Wipe the
  wok and pout in the remaining oil.  Add the mushrooms, cabbage, and
  celery, and stir-fry for 1 1/2 minutes.  Add the Nuoc Mam sauce, if
  using, and stock and stir-fry for another minutes.  Cover and leave
  to cook for a further 2 minutes.  Then
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Seafood With Mint, Garlic, And Chilies
 Categories: Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 oz Fish fillets
      6    Mussels
      1 sm Uncooked crab -- cleaned and
           Chopped
      4 oz Squid pieces
      4 oz Uncooked shrimp
      4 oz Scallops
      2    Cloves garlic -- chopped
      2 lg Fresh chili peppers --
           Chopped
      1 tb Cilantro roots -- chopped
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      2 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Light soy sauce and 1 tsp
           Anchovy sauce
           Mixed well
      1    Sweet bell pepper -- cut in
           Strips
      1    Onion -- thinly sliced
      2    Shallots -- thinly sliced
      4 tb Fresh mint -- chopped
 
  * (Thuc An Bien Xao Voi Rau Thom, Toi Va Ot).
  
  1.  Wash and prepare the seafood.  But the fish fillets into
  bite-sized pieces.  Scrub the mussels and remove the beards.  Take
  the limbs off the crab and crack the shell with a hammer so the meat
  is easy to remove at the table.  Remove the outer shell, c 2. Put the
  garlic, chilies, and cilantro root in a blender and make a coarse
  paste. Put to one side. 3. Heat the oil and fry the garlic, chili and
  cilantro over medium heat. Add the seafood and stir-fry gently so the
  fish fillet does not break up. Add the oyster sauce and NuocMam
  sauce.  Taste, cover and simmer for a few minutes. 4. Remove the lid
  and add the sweet bell pepper, onion, shallots, and mint, and
  stir-fry gently (the fish fillets are now even more delicate) for a
  couple of minutes then remove from the heat. 5. Arrange on a large,
  shallow serving dish and garnish with whatever herbs you happen to
  have around. Serve with a large bowl of steaming rice.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Vermicelli With Vegetables
 Categories: Pasta, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      1    Carrot -- thinly sliced
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Pak-choy (Chinese cabbage)
           Shredded
      3 tb Chicken stock
      1 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR 1 tablespoon light soy
           Sauce and
    1/2 ts Anchovy extract
      1 ts Sugar
           Freshly ground black pepper
      4 oz Rice vermicelli
           Soaked in war water for 4
           Minutes -- drained well
 
  *(Mi Vun Xao Voi Rau Dau).
  
  1.  Heat the oil in a wok over high heat and fry the garlic until
  golden brown.  Add the carrot and stir-fry for 1 minutes.
  
  2.  Add all the remaining ingredients except the vermicelli, stirring
  gently.  Cook for 2 minutes.
  
  3.  Add the vermicelli and toss to combine all the ingredients.  Stir
  for 1 minute.  Serve in a large serving dish.
  
  Formatted. Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM
  INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc.
  Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on
  May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Chicken Wings (Canh Ga Don)
 Categories: Poultry, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Chicken wings

MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
      4 oz Bean thread vermicelli
      3    Pieces dark wood ear fungus
  1 1/4 c  Ground pork
      1 sm Onion -- grated finely
      1 sm Carrot -- grated finely
      1    Egg -- beaten
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
           Salt and black pepper
 
  1.  Bone the chicken wings by cutting around the bone with a sharp
  knife. Holding the wingtip, gently ease the bone away to leave the
  skin and a thin layer of chicken. 2. Soak the vermicelli in warm
  water for 10 minutes then drain thoroughly and cut into short
  strands. Soak the wood ear fungus in warm water for 10 minutes then
  squeeze dry and chop into thin slices. 3. Mix all the stuffing
  ingredients together.  The mixture should be firm. Mold the stuffing
  into a ball and insert it into the bag of flesh and skin of the
  chicken wings. 4. Preheat the oven to 400 . Steam the stuffed wings
  for 10-15 minutes.
   (If you want to make a large quantity, multiply the measures
  accordingly and freeze after the steaming stage.) 5. After steaming,
  place in a lightly oiled roasting pan and roast in the oven for 30
  minutes. Serve on a bed of lettuce as a starter or with rice and a
  beef stir-fried dish.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Roast Suckling Pig (Heo Sua Quay Co Don) - Pt. 1
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 20 servings
 
     10 lb Prepared suckling pig
           (ask your butcher to leave
           Enough flesh
           And skin on the belly for
           Sewing)
           Juice of 1 lime
      2 tb Tea salt
      4    Cloves -- ground
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Vegetable oil

MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
           Heart, liver and kidneys of
           The pig
      6 tb Butter
      2    Onions -- finely chopped
      4    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      6 c  Fresh bread crumbs
      1    Red chili peppers --
           Chopped
      4 tb Chopped green onions
      1 lg Sprig of parsley -- finely
           Chopped
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
    3/4 c  Rice wine
    1/2 ts Allspice -- crushed
           Juice of 1 lime
           Salt

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Chicken stock
  2 1/2 c  Clear honey
    1/2 c  Light soy sauce
      4 tb Tomato paste
      4 ts Five-spice powder
    1/2 c  Rice wine or sherry salt
      2 tb Cornstarch mixed with a
           Little water
 
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Suffed Roast Suckling Pic (Heo Sua Quay Co Don) - Pt. 2
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 20 servings
 
 
  1.  Run cold water over the suckling pig and dry thoroughly inside
  and out. Rub the inside of the pig with lime juice.  Mix the salt,
  cloves, and black pepper and use half of it to rub the inside of the
  pig. 2. Clean and wash the liver, heart, and kidney.  Dry and grind.
  Melt the butter in a pan on a low heat, add the onions and garlic,
  sna saute until softened. Add the ground liver, heart, and kidney
  mixture and continute to saute for a further 5 minutes. 3. Add the
  other ingredients, mixing well. (If the stuffing is too dry, add 1-2
  tablespoons wate or milk.) Fill the cavity with the stuffing and sew
  it up with kitchen twine. Stuff a ball of foil in the pig's mouth.
  Tie each pair of legs together and 4. Preheat the oven to 325 and
  cook the pig for 2 1/2 hours or until the juices run clear when
  pricked with a knife, basting regularly.  Remove from the pan and
  allow to cool for 15 minutes.  Replace the foil in the mouth with an
  orange and put the pig 5. Drain the juices from the roasting pan to a
  wok. Add all the sauce ingredients except the cornstarch. Bring the
  juices to a boil and add the cornstarch, stirring gently until it
  thickens.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        See part 1 for ingredients.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Rice (Com Voi Rau)
 Categories: Rice, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Short-grain rice -- washed
           And drained
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 lb Pak-choy (Chinese cabbage)
           Cut crosswise in 1-inch
           Pieces
           Salt
  2 1/2    To 3 cups water
 
  1.  Wash the rice several times until the water runs clear.  Drain
  thoroughtly. 2. Heat a heavy saucepan over a high heat. Add the oil,
  swirl and heat for a further 30 secons or so. Add the cabbage and
  stir rapidly. the cabbage leaves should now be shiny with oil.
  Sprinkle some salt and stir and the leaves will brighten. 3. Put 4.
  Turn to the lowest possible heat, cover and let the rice cook for 20
  minutes. When it is cooked, leave it to rest for 10 minutes before
  serving. 5. Lay the rice on a flat dish, placing the cabbage on top.
  
  Formatted. Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM
  INDO-CHINA by Paulette Do Van. Published by Chartwell Books, Inc.
  Copyright (c) 1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on
  May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Crystal Vietnamese Rolls  - Pt. 2
 Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  * (Bi Cuon Chay Viet Nam).
  
  1.  Make the dipping sauce by combining all the ingredients and mixing
  thoroughly. 2. Soak the rice vermicelli in boiled water, slightly
  cooled, until soft. Drain thoroughly. 3. Soak the dried mushrooms and
  wood ear fungus in boiled water, slightly cooled, until soft. Drain
  thoroughly and squeeze out excess water.  If using regular mushrooms,
  wash and dry them thoroughly.  Slice thinly. 4. Place a clean tea
  towel on the surface you are working on.  Dip a single sheet of Banh
  Trang into warm water and place it on the tea towel. It should be
  soft and pliable but not too wet. Place some vermicelli, dried
  mushrooms, wood ear fungus, pickl 5. Spread the filling into a
  sausage shape.  Roll the bottom edge of the Banh Trang up and tuck
  tightly under the mixture.  Fold the left and right sides into the
  center and continue rolling away from you.  Continue until all the
  mixture is used. 6. Place the vegetarian rolls on a dish. The guests
  help themselves to letuce leaves, one at a time. On the lettuce they
  place a roll, some mint, cilantro, and cucumber. They then roll
  everything up and dip it in the dipping sauce.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        see part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Crystal Vietnamese Rolls  - Pt.1
 Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Rice vermicelli
      4    Dried Chinese mushrooms
           OR
      8    Regular mushrooms
      2    Pieces black wood ear
           Fungus
      1 pk Round Banh Trang rice paper
      2    Pickles onions -- thinly
           Sliced
      2    Dill pickles -- thinly
           Sliced
      8 oz Sliced bamboo shoots --
           Drained and thinly sliced
      1    Carrit -- grated
      4    Rings
           OR
      1 sm Can pineapple slices --
           Drained and chopped

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
           Maggi liquid seasoning with
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Clove garlic -- crushed
      1 sm Chopped chili -- optional

MMMMM--------------------------TO SERVE-------------------------------
      1    Butterhead lettuce
           Cilantro sprigs
           Mint sprigs
    1/2    Peeled cucumber
           Sliced into matchsticks
           -1 1/4 inch long
           Fresh pineapple, thinly
           -sliced
 
  *(Bi Cuon Chay Viet Nam).
  
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Vietnamese Spring Rolls  - Pt. 2
 Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
  * (Banh Cuon Chay Viet Nam). 1. Make the dipping sauce first. Combine
  all the ingredients and stir thoroughly. 2. Soak the vermicelli in
  boiled water, slightly cooled, until soft. Drain thoroughly. Use
  kitchen scissorts to cut into shorter strands. 3. Soak the Chinese
  mushrooms oand the light and black wood ear fungus in boiled water,
  slightly cooled. When soft drain thoroughly, gently squeezing out any
  excess water. Cuf finely. If using button mushrooms, wash, drain and
  chop finely. 4. Place the vermicelli, water chestnuts, garlic,
  carrot, onion, light and black wood ear fungus, Nuoc Mam sauce, black
  pepper, and egg in a large mixing bowl. With your hands, mix and
  knead the mixture until it is stiff enough to be shaped. 5. Place
  some boiled water that has cooled slightly in a largebowl. Spread a
  clean tea towel on the surface you are going to roll on.  If using
  the quadrant Banh Trang rice paper, take one piece and dip it into
  the water. Place it on the tea towel.  Tak 6. Place the second piece
  of rice paper on the first.  The rounded edge of the quadrant should
  be at the bottom facing you and the second piece placed about 2
  inches above but overlapping. Place a small amount of the mixture
  where the pieces overlap at 7. Carefully roll the bottom rounded edge
  over the mixture, tucking the edge under the mixture.  Fold over the
  left and right sides to the middle, then roll the parcel away from
  you.  Repeat these three steps until all the mixture has been used.
  Be care 8. If using the round rice paper, pass it through the water
  and place it on the tea towel. Put some mixture roughtly in the
  center but closer to the edge nearest to you. Form the mixture into a
  sausage shape.  Fold the bottom edge up and over the mixtu 9. When
  all the rolls are ready, heat the oil until hot in a large skillet.
  Shallow fry, turning frequently, until the mixture is cooked, taking
  care not to burn the rice paper.If you wish to deep-fry, put less
  filling in the rolls to ensure it is thoro 10. Place the rolls in the
  center of a lettuce leaf with some mint, cilantro, and cucumber. Roll
  up and dip into the sauce while still hot. Formatted by Olivia
  Liebermann.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        see part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetarian Vietnamese Spring Rolls - Pt. 1
 Categories: Appetizers, Vietnamese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 oz Bean thread vermicelli
      4    Dried Chinese mushrooms
           OR
      6    Button mushrooms
      1    Piece light or yellow wood
           Ear fungus
      1    Piece black wood ear fungus
      1 sm Can water chestnuts, --
           Drained and chopped
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
      2    Carrots -- grated
      2    Onions -- grated
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Light soy sauce mixed with 2
           Anchovies
           Or 1/2 tbsp. anchovy extract
           And a
        ds Lime or lemon juice
           Black pepper
      1    Egg -- beaten
      1 pk BanhTrang rice paper
           Quadrant-shaped or round
           Vegetable oil -- for frying

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
    2/3 c  Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      4 tb Maggi liquid seasoning
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      1    Red chili peppers -- finely
           Chopped
      2 ts Lemon or lime juice
      1 ts Cider vinegar or wine
           Vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Peanuts -- grated and
           Optional

MMMMM--------------------------TO SERVE-------------------------------
      1    Butterhead lettuce
           Cilantro sprigs
           Mint sprigs
    1/2    Peeled cucumber
           Cut into matchstick slices
           DIPPING SAUCE-----
           TO SERVE-----
 
  *(Bahn Cuon Chay Viet Nam).
  
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vietnamese Pancake (Banh Xeo)
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      1    To 2 tsp. Nuoc Mam sauce --
           Optional
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1    To 2 tsp. dried shrimp
           Soaked in warm water until
           Soft
           And drained
           OR
     10    Shelled shrimp
      1 ts Finely chopped fresh mint
      1 ts Finely chopped fresh
           Cilantro
 
  1.  Beat the eggs with the Nuoc Mam sauce until light and fluffly. 2.
  In an omelet pan, heat the oil over a medium heat.  Add the egg and
  Nuoc mam sauce mixture.  Before it sets, stir in the shrimp, mint,
  and cilantro. Continue cooking until set. 3. To finish off the top
  and obtain a successful rise, finish off under a preheated high
  broiler. Ease around with a wooden spatula dna fold the omelet.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vietnamese Pork Au Caramel
 Categories: Meats, Vietnamese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Water
      1 lb Leg of pork -- cut into
        lg Cubes
      3    Daikon (white Chinese
           Radishes) -- peeled/thinly
           Sliced
    1/2    Onion -- chopped
    1/3 c  Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR light soy sauce
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  *(Thhit Lon Nau Ca - Ra - Men Kieu Viet Nam).
  
  1.  Put the sugar in the wok and heat gently until it starts to smell
  as though it is burning.  Stir in the water very carefully so that
  the mixture does not break up. 2. Add the pork and radishes, and
  cover with water. Add the remaining ingredients and bring to a boil.
  Reduce the heat, cover and allow to simmer for about an hour or until
  thepork is cooked.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vietnamese Salad (Rau Tron Kieu Viet Nam)
 Categories: Salads, Vietnamese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Stalks fresh lemon grass
           (discard outer leaves) --
           Thinly sliced
      2 oz Each leftover roast beef,
           Pork, lamb,
           Or chicken -- finely
           Shredded
      1 bn Green onions -- finely
           Chopped
      2    Carrots -- finely grated
      1    Red chili pepper -- finely
           Sliced
      2    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Sliced and crushed
      3 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      2 tb Maggi liquid seasoning
           Mixed with 1 tsp. anchovy
           Extract
      9 tb Lime or lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil
      2 tb Finely chopped cilantro.
 
  1.  Lightly hit the sliced lemon grass with the back of a cleaver or
  heavy knife to release the flavor and smell.  Mix the lemon grass
  with the lefover meat then add the green onions and toss well  Mix in
  the grated carrot. 2. Mix together the chili, garlic, Nuoc Mam sauce,
  and lime juice, and stir well. Add to the salad and toss well. Throw
  in the basil and cilantro, and toss again.  If you think you need
  more salad dressing, add equal parts of Nuoc Mam sauce and lime jui
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vietnamese Spring Rolls (Cha Gio Viet Nam) Pt. 1
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 oz Bean thread vermicelli
      2    Dried Chinese mushrooms
           OR
      4    Button mushrooms
      2    Pieces black wood ear
           Fungus
      1 tb Dried shrimp
           OR
      8    Fresh shrimp -- finely
           Ground
      2    Cloves garlic -- ground
      1    Carrot -- grated
      1    Onion -- grated
    1/2 c  Ground pork
      1 tb Nuoc Mam sauce
           OR
      1 tb Light soy sauce with 2
           Anchovies
           Crushed into it, and a dash
           Lime
           Or lemon juice
           Black pepper
      1    Egg -- beaten
      1 pk Banh Trang rice paper
           Quadrant-shaped or round
           Vegetable oil -- for frying

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
      2 tb Nuoc Man sauce
           OR
      2 tb Maggi liquid seasoning
      1    Clove garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      2 ts Lime or lemon juice
      1 ts Cider vinegar -- or wine
           Vinegar
      1 ts Sugar

MMMMM--------------------------TO SERVE-------------------------------
      1    Butterhead lettuce
           Cilantro sprigs
           Mint sprigs
 
  See part 2 for directions.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vietnamese Spring Rolls (Cha Gio Viet Nam) Pt. 2
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
  1.  Make the dipping sauce first.  Combine all the ingredients in a
  dish and stir thoroughly. 2.  Soak the vermicelli in boiled water
  slightly cooled until soft and drain thoroughly. Cut with kitchen
  scissors to make shorter strands. 3.  Soak the Chinese 4. Soak the
  dried shrimp in boiled water that has cooled slightly until soft and
  then drain thoroughly. Grind finely.  If using fresh shrimp, wash,
  drain, and grind. 5. Place the vermicelli, garlic, carrot, onion,
  black wood ear fungus, mushrooms, drie Formatted by Olivia Liebermann.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
                        see part 1 for ingredients
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Lemon Torte
 Categories: Passover, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Cake
      7 lg Eggs -- separated
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Almonds, coarsely ground
           Blanched or unblanched
           Rind of a large lemon
           Glaze
      1 lg Egg yolk
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Rind of 1 lemon
      1 ts Butter
 
  Cake: Preheat oven to 325. Beat the egg whites until they are stiff,
  and set them aside,. Beat the egg yolks, slightly and mix them well
  with the sugar, then add the ground almonds and lemon rind. Fold in
  the egg whites. Grease and flour with matzah meal
  
  Glaze: A few minutes before removing the cake from the oven, beat
  together the egg yolk, juice, sugar and rind, then place the mixture
  in a saucepan and boil it, stirring constantly until it thickens.
  Stir in the butter. With a toothpick, poke holes in th
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Angelican Eggplant Souffle
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lg Eggplant
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Light cream at room temp
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      4 lg Egg yolks -- beaten
      4 lg Egg whites -- beaten till
           Stiff
 
  Preheat oven to 450.  Bake the whole eggplant until it is charred and
  soft, about 30 minutes. Remove it and reduce the oven temperature to
  375. Cool the eggplant, peel and mash itthoroughly with salt. In a
  medium sized saucepan, melt the butter and quickl
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Applesauce Meringue Tart
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans
           Dough
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
           Rind of 1 lemon -- finely
           Grated
      1 tb Sugar
      9 tb Margarine
  1 1/2 tb Cold water
           Filling
      1 c  Thick sweetened applesauce
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 tb Very finely chopped lemon
           Rind
           Meringue
      2 lg Egg whites
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
 
  Dough: Mix together the flour, salt, grated lemon rind and sugar. Cut
  in the margarine with 2 knives or a pastry blender until the mixture
  is crumbly. Work in the water with your hands until the dough is
  blended. chill it for 1/2 hour.
  
  Preheat oven to 475 When the dough has chilled, press it evenly into
  a 9 inch layer cake pan or 9 inch flan pan, pan with a removable
  bottom, bringing the dough up the sides almost to the top of thepan
  and keeping it an even ehickness throughout. make holes all over the
  bott
  
  Filling: mix the applesauce with the cinnamon and the chopped lemon
  rind.
  
  Meringue: Beat the egg whites and cream of tartar until soft peaks
  form. Beat in the sugar, 1 T at a time, and continue beating until
  stiff peaks form.
  Procedure: Pour the applesauce into the cooled shell. Pile the
  meringue in spoonfuls over the surface and blend it together with a
  spatula, being sure that the meringue touches the edges all around.
  bake the tart until the meringue is browned lightly. ABout 8-10
  minutes. Serve at room temp.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Avocado Dip
 Categories: Dips/spread, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
      1    Avocado
      1    Crushed garlic clove
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 tb Mayonnaise Lurie
 
  Mash the avocado, then blend in garlic, salt and pepper to taste.
  Then stir in mayo until the mixture is of the desired consistency.
  Chill to serve.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baba Ghanou (Eggplant With Tahina)
 Categories: Dips/spread, Appetizers
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      1 lg Eggplant
      1 md Onion
    1/2 bn Parsley
    1/2 c  Tahina (sesame seed paste)
      2 tb Lemon juice
     20    Milliliters
      2 ts Water
      1 ts Salt
        ds Cayenne pepper
           Garlic -- crushed
 
  Place the unpeeled egg plant directly on gas burner with the flame
  set at medium, turning it as the skin chars and the inside becomes
  soft, or bake in a pan at 450 until it is charred and tender, about
  30 minutes. When done, let cool slightly, cut i half lengthwise and
  scoop out the eggplant pulp . chop fine. Grate onion, squeeze out
  juice from the onion, chop parsley, fine and blend with the eggplant
  and onion. Blend the tahina thoroughly with lemon juice and garl
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bachelor Punch
 Categories: Beverages, Alcohol
      Yield: 20 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      2 c  Sweetened condensed milk
      2 c  Cognac
      1 c  Vodka
      2 c  Creme de cacao
           Raisins
 
  With a electric beater, beat the condensed milk with the cognac and
  vodka. Beat in the cream de cacao, Serve the punch, well chilled, in
  small punch cups with a sprinle of raisinson top. It can be stored
  covered.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bagels (Israeli Bagellike Pretzels)
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Dry yeast
    1/4 c  Warm water
      4 c  Flour
      1 ts Ground caraway
      1 ts Salt
    7/8 c  Margarine
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      1 lg Egg beaten
      1 ts Water
           Sesame seeds for topping
 
  Dissolve the yeast in the water and set aside. Mix flour, caraway, and
  salt. Blend in the margarine and oil. Make a hole in the center; pour
  in the yeast water mixure and combine well. You may have to add
  morelukewarm water to make a firm but not stiff do Cover the bowl
  with a towl and place in a warm spot for one hour so the dough can
  rise. Preheat the oven to 375. Shape the dough into crescents about
  three inches long. Brush eachwith some of the egg water mixture and
  sprinkle with the sesame seeds. place
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baisers (Meringue Kisses)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 50 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      3 lg Egg whites
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cream of tartar
    5/8 c  Very roughly chopped
           Walnuts
 
  Beat the egg whites ntil they form peaks. Gradually beat in the sugar
  and cream of tartar until the whites are very stiff. Stir in the nuts
  by hand. Drop the batter on a greased cookie sheet in teardrop
  shapes, using two teaspoons ( for shaping ); each co bake them about
  1/2 hour. checking occasionally, until the cookies are hard but still
  white.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Chips
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
           Cooking oil
      2 lb Very green bananas
           Salt
 
  heat the oil to 370. Slice bananas 1/8 inch thick and fry one cupful
  at a time. It takes only a few minutes. remove when golden brown and
  crisp like potato chips. Drain on paper towl and sprinkle with salt.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bananas Caramel
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
 
  Whip 1 cup of the cream until it is stiff; set it aside in the
  refrigerator. In a small saucepan, mix the sugar, remaining cream and
  butter. Stirring occasionally, cook them about5 minutes to caramelize
  them, but do not let the mixture become to dark. Sti
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Borscht (Beet Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lg Onion -- chopped coarsley
     10    Milliliters
           Oil for cooking
      2 lb Beets
    1/4 c  Wine vinegar
      1 c  Tomato juice
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
           Juice of 1 lemon
    1/2 c  Fresh dill
           Sour cream
           Garlic
 
  Saute the onion and garlic in oil until golden. Meanwhile, peel and
  slice the beets and then place them in a saucepan with the onion and
  garlic. Cover them with water and simmer gently, covered, for about
  40 minutes until the beets are tender. Place the mixture in a blender
  and puree, add the wine vine
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Capellini Freddi ( Cold Pasta)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      1 pk Very thin spaghetti -- hair
           Like -- (18 ounces)
      2 tb Olive oil
     30    Milliliters
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
      6 tb Tomato paste
      1 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
           Garlic -- minced
 
  In a large saucepan, bring to the boil enough water just to cover the
  spaghetti. When the water is boiling strongly, drip in the spaghetti,
  count to 55 timing is important and immediately pour the pasta into a
  colander or strainer. Rinse quickly with cool
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carbonada Criolla (Beef Stew With Vegetables)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 lg Onion -- chopped coarsely
      4 lg Garlic cloves -- mashed
      2 lb Stewing or goulash meat --
           Cut
           In chunks
      1 lb Tomatoes -- peeled and
           Choppey
      1    Bay leaf
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Paprika
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 lg Carrot
      1    Beef bouillon cube --
           Dissolved
           In
      3 c  Boiling water
      2 lg Sweet potatoes, peeled
           Chopped coarsely
      2 lg White potatoes, peeled
           Chopped coarsely
      6    Dried apricots
      1 cn Kernel corn
      1 sm Can or
      1 pk Frozen green peas
      1 c  Uncooked rice
      6    Dried prunes
      1 sm Can peach halves -- drained
      1 lg Yellow squash
 
  In a saucepan, saute the onion and garlic in oil. Add the beef, stir
  and cook it until it is brown on all sides. Add the tomatoes, bay
  leaf, parsley, oregano and paprika. Season with salt and pepper.
  Cover and simmer 10 minutes. Add the carrot, bouillon a Preheat oven
  to 400. Cut the squash in 1/2 remove the seeds, sprinkle it with
  salt, dot with butter and sprinkle iw with a little water to keep it
  from drying out. bake it until it is tender. Place it in a large
  serving dish and pur the prepared carbonada Recipe By
  : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower Gratine
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1    Whole cauliflower
      2 tb Margarine
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb Flour
    3/4 c  Light cream or milk
      1    Chicken or beef bouillon
           Cube -- crumbled
           Salt and pepper to taste
    3/4 c  Cubed gruyere or other
           Yellow cheese
 
  Wash the cauliflower, remove the green leaves, but leave enough to use
  later as a base. Cook in boiling salted water 20 minutes. Drain it
  well. Place the whole cauliflower in a shalow oven proof dish,
  flatten out the leaves to form an attractive base.
  
  Met the margarine, stir in the flour until it is blended and add milk
  or cream and a crumbled bouillon cube. cook, stirring, over low heat
  until themixture thickens. Pour over the cauliflower, sprinkle with
  salt and pepper if needed. Cover with cubed chee
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Charoset (Sephardic Style From Rhode Island)
 Categories: Passover, Fruit
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      2 c  Pitted dates
      1 c  Walnuts
    1/2 ts Ginger
      2 tb Sweet red wine or to taste
 
  soat the dates for 3-4 hours and then simmer for 20 minutes. Grind
  the nuts in a blender. Combine the dates and nuts and then blend
  well. Mix with ginger and a little wine. Spreadon matzah at passover
  with romaine. good as a hors d'oeuvre throughout the y
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Stuffed Zucchini
 Categories: Vegetables, Cheese/eggs, Tomatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      6 sm Zucchini or 3 medium sized
    1/3 c  Grated parmesan cheese
      1 lg Egg
    1/2    To 3/4 c fine bread crumbs
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2    Tomatoes chopped coarsely
 
  cut off the stem ends of the zucchini and slice each in half
  lengthwise. Parnoil, then scoop out the pulp and set it aside. Mix
  the cheese, egg and crumbs together and season withsalt and pepper.
  Fill each zucchini half with the mixture, packed down and m
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesecake Favorite
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
  1 1/2 c  Crumbs -- graham cracker or
           Crisp cookies
      4 tb Margarine or butter --
           Melted
      1 lb Cream cheese
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 c  Sugar
 
  Preheat oven to 300.
  
  Combine the crumbs and melted margarine and press this crust over the
  bottom of a deep 9 inch pie plate. Mix the cream cheese, eggs, sugar,
  and vanilla and pour them over the crumb base. Bake for 25 minutes.
  Do not turn off the oven afterward. cool the ch
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chenagi (Chicken And Walnut Appetizer)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      1 sm Chicken -- cut into six
           Pieces
           Simmered until tender in
      3 c  Salted water
      4 lg Eggs separated
      1 ts Confectioners sugar
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts
      1 tb Fnely chopped chives or
           Shallots
    1/4 ts Rosemary
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Let the chicken cool slightly, reserving the liquid. Bone and skin the
  chicken and shred the meat into small pieces. Set aside. beat the egg
  whites with the confectioners sugar until stiff. then using the same
  beaters, beat the yolks until foamy. Into the whites fold the yollks,
  walnuts, shallots or chives, chenagi is more liquid than solid so it
  is best served in small bowls.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken And Chick Peas
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1    3lb chicken -- cut into
           Pieces
           Salt to taste
      5 tb Butter or cooking oil
      2 c  Chopped onions
  1 1/2 c  Chick peas canned
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 tb Ground coriander
           Freshly ground pepper to
           Taste
  1 1/4 c  Chicken broth -- made from
           Boiling water and
      2    Chicken bouillon cubes
 
  Wash and dry the chicken pieces. sprinkle with salt. Heat the butter
  or oil in a saucepan with a lid. Saute the onions and brown the
  chicken on all sides. Add the chick peas, cumin and coriander and
  sprinkle with pepper. Cover and cook over low heat about 10 minutes,
  shaking the pan once in a while so the chicken will not stick. addthe
  broth, cover and cook for 1/2 hour until the chicken is tender.
  remove t
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Soup With Matzah Balls
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1    3 lb chicken whole or in
           Pieces with feet
      6 c  Water
      2 md Sized onions -- peeled and
           Sliced
      2    Stalk celery -- chopped
      4    Carrots -- scraped and
           Chopped
           Into half inch pieces
        pn Paprika
           Salt and pepper to taste
      3    Sprigs parsley -- coarsley
           Chopped
 
  Clean the chicken. Immerse the feet in boiling water for a few
  seconds, then remove the outer skin, place the chicken in a large
  pot, add the water and onions. Bring the wter to a boil, reduce the
  heat, skim, then cover and simmer the chicken gently for one hour.
  Add the other ingredients. Simmer covered for another 45 minutes or
  until the chicen is tender. Strain it, skim off the fat and season to
  taste. Use th
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Almond Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Cake
      8 lg Eggs
      1 c  Butter, softened -- let
           Stand
           At room temp 1/2 hour
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Sweetened cocoa
  1 1/4 c  Finely ground almonds --
           Not
           Blanched -- whirl in
           Blender
           To obtain right consistancy
    1/2 c  Finely ground bread crumbs
           Made from toasted bread
    1/4 c  Halved -- blanced and
           Toasted
           Almonds for decoration. see
           End of recipe
           Filling and frosting
    1/2 c  Butter -- softened
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners sugar
    1/4 c  Sweetened cocoa
      2 ts Rum
 
  Cake: Preheat oven to 375 Line a 9 inch cake pan with alum foil and
  grease the bottom and sides. Separate the eggs, placing the yolks in
  a large mixing bowl and the whites in a deep bowl for beating. Beat
  the whites until stiff peaks form and set them asi Add the almonds
  and breadcrumbs; mix well. Fold the egg whites into the mixture until
  the two are combined smoothly. Pour the batter into a cake pan and
  spread it evenly. Bake it for 25 minutes or until tests done. Cool in
  the baking pan.
  
  FIlling and frosting: Cream the butter with a fork, Mix the sugar and
  cocoa together and add them to the butter. Cream all the ingredients
  until they are well blended and add therum, mixing well. When the
  cake has cooled, remove it from the pan, peel off Divide it crosswise
  into 3 equal parts. Put the three layers together with filling
  frosting between the layers and on top. Decorate it with the toasted
  almonds.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Birthday Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Pastry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Crust
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 lb Butter or margarine
      3 tb Sour cream
           Filling
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      3 lg Egg yolks -- well beaten
  1 1/2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
           Melted
    1/2 ts Vanilla -- optional
    1/2 ts Rum
      3 lg Egg whites -- beaten stiff
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Sugar to sweeten whipped
           Cream
           Grated chocolate for
           Garnish
 
  Crust: Sift the flour with the salt. Cut in the butter or margarine
  with 2 knives or pastry blender until the mixture is crumbly. Add the
  sour cream. Toss with afork until the mixture forms a ball. Chill 2
  hours. Preheat oven to 425.
  
  Roll out the crust to fit a 9 inch pie pan. Prick all over the bottom
  and sides with a fork. bake it for 15 minutes or until just brown.
  cool it on a rack.
  
  Filling: Beat the egg whites first, then, to save washing beaters,
  beat the egg yolks directly. Cream the butter and sugar well. Add the
  beaten yolks, chocolate, vanilla, if desired, and rum. Mix well. Fold
  in the egg whites. Whip the cream and add sugar to taste.   When the
  pie crust has cooled, pour in the chocolate filling. Spread the
  filing with whipped cream and garnish it with grated chocolate. You
  can freeze this pie up to the whipped cream stage
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus Chicken
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1    Chicken -- about 4 lbs
      1    Whole orange
    1/2 c  Fresh unstrained orange
           Juice
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      1 ts Ground ginger
      4    -6 tablespoons liquid honey
    1/2 c  Red or white wine
 
  Place chicken in roasting pan breast side down, place a whole orange
  inside the chicken. Combine the juice, salt, pepper and ginger and
  pour the mxture over. Roast uncovered at 350 for 1/2 an hour. Remove
  from the oven, turn it over and smear it with honey. Return to oven.
  after 5 minutes baste it with wine and juices from the pan. If the
  breast seems to be browning to quickly, cover it with foil. baste it
  onc Remove the orange from the chicken and slive it to garnish when
  serving.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Cointreau Torte
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      6 lg Eggs -- separated
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Walnuts -- chopped coarsley
      2 c  Unsweetened shredded
           Coconut -- sweetened can be
           Used
    3/4 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Grand marnier or cointreau
      1 c  Whipping cream
      1    Sq bittersweet chocolate
           For
           Garnish
 
  Preheat oven to 325. In the large bowl of your mixer beat the egg
  whites with 1/2 of the sugar until the mixture holds stiff peaks.
  Without washing the beaters, beat the egg yolks in the small bowl
  with the rest of the sugar until they are light and fluffy. Add the
  yolks to Spread whipped cream over the surface and garnish with
  bittersweet chocolate shavings. Store it in the refrigerator.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee Chicken
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1    4 lb chicken cut into
           Serving pieces
    3/4 c  Coffee made by adding
      1 tb Instant coffee to
    3/4 c  Boiling water
    1/3 c  Tomato ketchup
      3 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Wine vinegar
      1 tb Cooking oil
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
 
  Place the chicken pieces in a shallow oven proof dish. Mix the other
  ingredients in the order given in a medium sized saucepan. bring them
  to a boil reduce the heat and simmer for 5 minutes. Pour the sauce
  over the chicken pieces, bake uncovered, for 1 hour until the chicken
  is tender. Baste occasionally.
  
  Note: This sauce is also good with lamb chops. For 8 lamb chops
  proceed as above, baking about 3/4 hour or until tender.
  
  Nice served with artichoke hearts on top.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coq Au Vin (Chicken In Red Wine Sauce)
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      4 sl Bacon or substitute
           Chopped in small pieces
      1 md Chicken -- quartered
      1 c  Fresh sliced mushrooms
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
     12 sm White onions -- peeled
           Optional
      3    Potatoes peeled and cut in
           Chunks optional
  1 3/4 c  Dry red wine
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Flour
      4    Pieces rye bread
      4 tb Butter
 
  fry the bacon pieces until they are limp but not crisp. Remove the
  bacon from the saucepan and set the pieces aside. Lightly brown the
  chicken and then the mushrooms in the pan. Drain off the remaining
  bacon fat and season with salt and pepper. Add the on
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cucumbers With Dill And Sour Cream
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      3 lg Cucumbers
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vinegar -- cider or white
      2 tb Cold water
      1 ts Sugar
      3 tb Chopped fresh dill
           Freshly ground black pepper
           To taste
           Sour cream
 
  Peel the cucumbers and slice very thin, Place in a colander, sprinkle
  with salt and set aside for 1/2 hour.  Mix the vinegar, water, sugar,
  and dill, combine with the cucumber slices and mix well. Sprinkle the
  mxture with pepper and chill until icy cold. Serve with a large
  spoonful of sour cream on each portion.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Curry Dip
 Categories: Dips/spread, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      4    Hard boiled eggs -- grated
           Mayonnaise lurie
      1 ts Curry powder -- or to taste
 
  Mix all together with enough mayonnaise to give it a creamy
  consistancy like a thin paste. Chill.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Punch
 Categories: Beverages, Alcohol
      Yield: 20 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      2    16 oz cans evaporated milk
      4 c  Water
           Sugar to taste
      3 sm Cinnamon sticks
  1 1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
      4    Egg yolks -- well beaten
      2 c  Vodka
 
  In a saucepan, cook the first 5 ingredients together until the mixture
  comes to the  boil. Lower the heat and cook 5 minutes more, stirring
  constantly. Remove the mixture form theheat, cool it and put it
  through a sieve. beat in the egg yolks and put the Stir in the vodka,
  More can be used if desired. Serve well chilled in punch cups.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Rolls Minard
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Batter for pancakes
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 lg Egg unbeaten
  1 1/4 c  Water
           Filling
      2 tb Margarine for sauteing
      2    Stalks celery, sliced thin
    1/4    Inch pieces
      1 c  Bean sprouts or
      1 c  Green cabbage -- sliced
           Thin
      5 lg Mushrooms -- sliced
      1 c  Leftover cooked,ham --
           Chicken
           Or veal chopped very small
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 tb Red or white wine
           Salt to taste
 
  Batter: mix together the flour and salt. Make a well in the center
  and drop in the egg. Gradually stir in the water and beat the mixture
  until it is smooth. Set it aside for 1 hour while preparing the
  filling.
  
  Filling: Melt 2 tb margarine in a frying pan. Saute the celery and
  eban sprouts for about 2 minutes. Add the ushrooms and meat; saute
  for 2 more minutes. If you areusing cabbage instead of bean sprouts,
  add it and stir after the mushrooms and meat. Add th Season with salt
  and set the mixture aside to cool.
  
  Pancakes: Very lightly grease a 6 inch frying pan with margarine or
  vegetable oil and arm it over low heat. If the pan is to hot, the
  batter will stick. Pour about 2 tb of  batter into the pan and
  immediately tilt the pan to cover the surface evenly. The first one
  or two will be test pancakes; they should be wafer-thin and a little
  practice is needed. cook each
  
  To fill: turn each pancake cooked side up place a small amount of
  cooked filling in the center of the pancake. Fold all sides in, like
  a envelope and seal the edges with a small amountof leftover batter.
  Turn thepancakes sealed side down to set.
  
  In a deep frying pan heat corn oil to a depth of 6 inches until it is
  very hot, to test the oil is at the correct heat, drop in a thin
  slice of raw potato. If it sinks to the bottom and rises immediately,
  the oil is ready. Fry the egg rolls 2-3 at a time,
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Puddings
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lg Eggplant
      4 tb Margarine or butter
      1 lg Onion chopped small
      1    Green pepper -- chopped
           Small
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 sm Eggs -- slightly beaten
    1/2    To 1 cup cracker crumbs or
           Matzah meal
    1/3 c  Margarine or butter --
           Melted
           Paprika
 
  Preheat oven to 350.  Peel the eggplant and slice it. cook it in
  simmering salted water to cover until it is tender. About 20 minutes.
  Drain and mash it. Meanwhile, saute the onion andpepper pieces in
  margarine until they are tender but not crisp.  Mix the eggplant with
  the slighty beaten eggs. Season to taste with salt and pepepr.Add the
  onions and green pepper to the eggplant mixture. Blend in enough cru
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Roll
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
           Crust
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 c  Margarine or butter
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 lg Egg yolk
           Sesame seeds
           Filling
      1 md Eggplant, cooked -- peeled
           And
           Mashed
      4 tb Tahina
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  ds Sugar 2 cl Garlic, minced 1 tb Water 1 tb Lemon juice Preheat oven
  to 350.
  
  Filling: Blend tahina with salt and pepper, sugar, garlic wate and
  lemon juice. mix the egg plant with the tahina and set it aside.
  
  Dough: Mix the flour with the salt and baking powder. Mix the flour
  and margarine with a pastry blender or your hands. Add the sour
  cream. Knead the dough three or four times. Place it in the refo for
  1/2 hour.
  
  Roll the dugh into a long thin rectangle on a floured board. Place the
  eggplant mixture down the length of one side and roll the dough one
  and 1/2 times lenghtwise. Place the roll on a greased cooke sheet,
  brush it with the yolk of one egg and sprinkle it
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Falafel Chick Pea Patties
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 lb Can chick-peas drained
      1 lg Onion chopped
           Parsley
      1 lg Egg
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Dried hot red peppers
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Ground coriander or cumin
    1/2    To 1 cup bread crumbs or
           Fine burghul (crushed
           Wheat)
           Vegetable oil
 
  Mix chick peas and the onion, add the parsley, lightly beaten egg and
  spices. Whirl in a blender. Add bread crumbs until the mixture will
  form a small ball without sticking to your hands. Form the chick pea
  mixture into small balls about the size of a qua Drain the falafel on
  paper towels. Serve individually with toothpicks or as a sandwich
  flling with chopped tomato, cucumber, radish, lettuce, onion and /or
  tahina inside pita.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fanes De Blettes (Beet Tops)
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Greens and stems from 1 lb
           Beets
      3 tb Cooking oil
     20    Milliliters
      2 tb Lemon juice or to taste
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Garlic -- minced
 
  Wash the beet tops, shake them dry, and cut them into one inch long
  pieces. Boil them in water to cover until tender, about 5 minutes.
  Drain, and squeeze out the excess water. Heat the oil in a frying pan
  and saute the beet tops for 15 minutes over low he
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fassoulia (Beef And Green Bean Stew)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
  1 1/2 c  Tomato juice
    1/2 c  Water
      1 lb Stewing beef -- cut in
           Small
           Chunks
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
     20    Milliliters
      3 tb Butter
      1 lg Onion -- chopped coarsely
      1 lb Fresh green beans
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Garlic -- minced
 
  bring the water and tomato juice to a boil. Add the beef, parsley and
  garlic. Cover and simmer for 2 hours. Do not brown the meat first.
  Wash the beans and slice them diagonaly into one inch pieces. Saute
  the onon and butter until golden, add the beans an
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Finks Special
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pat dwigans fwds07a
    1/8    Vodka
    1/8    Gin
    1/8    White rum
    1/8    Kirsch
        ds Triple sec white
           Curacao
      3 dr Angostura bitters
      1 ts Lemon squash syrup
           Cherry brandy
 
  pour in the order listed into a chilled sour glass containing one ice
  cube. Stir well and remove the ice cube. Carefully pour enough cherry
  brandy just over the edge of the glass so that it runs down the
  inside and settles on the bottom of the glass to a
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flower Mousse
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      6 oz Bitter chocolate
      6 lg Eggs -- separated
      1 tb Rum -- cointreau or Grand
           Marnier
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
           Chocolate sprinkles
      8    Carnations or other small
           Flowers
           Brandy
 
  In the top of a double boiler over simmering water, melt the
  chocolate. Remove it from the heat, allow it to cool. Beat the egg
  whites until peaks form and the mixture is glossy but not dry; set
  them aside. beat the egg yolks slightly with the rum and sti
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Champignons (Broiled Mushrooms)
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
  1 1/4 lb Mushrooms -- cleaned and
           Halved lengthwise
      2    Onions sliced thin
           Corn oil
      1    Beef or chicken bouillon
           Cube -- crumbled
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 tb Flour -- optional
    1/2 c  Light cream -- optional
           Water -- optional
 
  saute the onion slices in hot corn oil until they are slightly brown.
  Add the mushrooms and cover. Cook over low heat for 5-7  minutes.
  Stir in the crumbled bouillon cube and add salt and pepper to taste.
  If a thiccker mixture is desired, as for an omele
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Lemonade
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 c  Fresh lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Mix together until sugar dissolves. Store concentrate in covered
  glass jars or bottes, for one glass of lemonade mix 1/4 cup
  concentrate with 3/4 cup iced water or to taste.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Fish With Skorthalia (Garlic And Potato
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans
      1 lb Small whole fish or fish
           Filets
      2 lg Eggs
      2 tb Water
      1 tb Flour
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Olive oil
           SKORTHALIA
     10    Garlic cloves
           Salt to taste
    1/2 c  Plus
      1 tb Ground blanched almonds
    1/2 c  Water
      3 md Potato, boiled, peeled
           Quartered and cooled
           Juice of 1 1/2 lemons
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 lg Egg yolk
           Freshly ground black pepper
           To taste
 
  Fish: Rinse the fish with cold water and pat dry. Beat the eggs,
  water and flour to make a dripping batter. Coat the fish pieces
  thoroughly and fry in hot olive oil until golden brown and cooked
  through. Fish serves 2-3.
  
  Skorthalia: into a wooden bowl, press juice from the garlic cloves
  with a garlic press. Add the remainder of cloves from inside the
  press. Pound with a pestle, adding a few sprinkles of salt. When a
  creamlike consistency is reached, add the almonds and po
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of  Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruited Corned Beef
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1    4lb piece of corned beef
           Brisket with covering of
           Fat
           On one side
           Whole cloves
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Fine bread crumbs
      1 ts Dry mustard
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
           Grated rind of 1 orange
      1 c  Apple cider or apple juice
 
  Place the meat in a large kettle, cover with cold water. brig to the
  boil. boil 5 minutes and skim froth from the surface. cover tightly
  and cook over a low heat for three hours. Preheat oven to 350. Remove
  the meat and place it in a roasting pan. Score t
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gefullte Fish ( Ashkenazic Style From The Ukraine)
 Categories: Fish, Jerusalem
      Yield: 36 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
           Stock
      4    Stalk celery -- cut in 4
           Inch
           Slices
      2    Onions -- quartered
      1    Green pepper -- cut in
           Chunks
      3    Carrots -- halved
      8 c  Water
           Bones of the fish and heads
           If desired
      1 tb Freshly ground pepper
     12    Sprigs parsley
      2 ts Sugar
      1    Bay leaf optional
           Fish
      4 lb Pike
      1 lb Whitefish
      1 lb Carp
      1 tb Salt
      2 md Onions -- finely grated
      6 lg Eggs
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Matzah meal
 
  the ration of ish can be adjusted according to taste. The les carp
  and the more whitefish, the more delicate the flavor. Place all the
  stock ingredients in a large kettle with a cover. bring to a boil,
  then cover and reduce heat to simmer. While waiting for the pot to
  boil, begin preparing the fish.
  
  In a wooden bowl. add to the ground up fish all the ingredients listed
  under fish, carefully chopping and blending.  Wet hands and form fish
  mixture into fat oval shaped patties,carefully sliding each into the
  simmering stock. Cook slowly for 2 hours. All
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honeyed Herring
 Categories: Jerusalem, Fish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
      6    Salt herrings -- cleaned
           Soaked overnight and
           Filleted -- with each
           Fillet halved
  1 1/2    To 2 cups water
      2 lg Onions
    1/2 c  Sultana raisins
      2 tb Liquid honey
        ds Cinnamon
        ds Ground ginger
      1    Lemon -- peeled and sliced
           Thin
 
  Soak herrings again while preparing sauce. Sauce: bring water to
  boil, add onions and raisins, and simmer slowly for 2 hours, addig
  more water if necessary. When the onions are tender, add honey,
  spices and lemon slices. cook for10 minutes. remove lemon slices.
  Drain fillets, roll up and fasten with toot
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Humita (Spicy Corn Casserole)
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 md Size onion
    1/2 c  Butter
      4 tb Cooking oil
      1    Red chili pepper
      2 lg Tomatoes -- peeled
      1    1 1/2 lb pkg frozen corn
           Kernels or
      1 cn Corn
  1 1/2 ts Salt
        ds Freshly ground pepper
      1 c  Milk
 
  Chop the onion coarsely. Heat the butter and oil until they arebubbly,
  saute the onion pieces until they are light brown, but not crisp.
  Chop the pepper into small pieces and addto the onion. chop the
  tomatoes coarsely and add them to the onion-pepper mi
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jerusalem Kugel ( Peppery Spaghetti Pudding)
 Categories: Jewish, Puddings
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 pk 8 oz thin spaghetti
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      3 lg Eggs slightly beaten
 
  Preheat oven to 350 Cook the spaghetti as the package directs.
  
  In a medium saucepan, heat the oil and then add the sugar. Cook over
  a very low heat, stirring constantly, until the sugar is very dark,
  almost black, about 10 minutes. Immediately add the spaghetti and the
  salt, pepper and eggs. Stir well and test to see
  
  Note: This peppery noodle pudding is a speciality of Jerusalem's
  Chassidic jews.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Katayif ( Fruit And Nut Filled Pancakes)
 Categories: Breads, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
           Pancakes
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs well beaten
      3 c  Milk
           Vegetable oil for cooking
           Filling
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Raisins
      1 lg Apple peeled and grated
           Warm water, orange juice
           Or applesauce
           Honey syrup
    3/4 c  Water
    3/4 c  Honey
 
  Pancakes: mix flour, salt and baking powder. Add cornmeal and sugar
  and blend well. Add the eggs and finally the milk mixing well each
  time until the batter is smooth. Barely cover the bottom of a 7 inch
  skillet ( a crepe pan is best.) which has a cover w Preheat oven to
  350.
  
  Filling: Mix nuts, brown sugar, and spices with one or two of the
  suggested fruits and enough water, juice or applesauce to hold the
  mixture together. Spread a small amount of the filling on each
  pancake. Fold in half and press sides together.
  
  Syrup: Boil water and mix with honey.
  
  Place completed pancakes slightly overlapping each other in baking
  dish, and dribble with some of the honey surup. bake in oven for 8
  minutes. Serve with piping hot remaining syrup.
  
  Variation: 1 cup dried apricots, chopped coarssely can be used
  instead of the apples or raisins.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kibbutz Breakfast Salad
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
      4 lg Firm tomatoes
      2 md Cucumbers; 1 peeled -- 1
           Unpeeled
      1 lg Green pepper
           Lettuce leaves optional
           Carrot optional
           Green cabbage leaves
           Optonal
    1/4 c  Olive or salad oil
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice or citrus
           Vinegar
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper to taste
 
  Vegetables should be well chilled before preparation. Chop tomatoes,
  cucumbers and green pepper into small even dice. if lettuce is used,
  tear it into small bits; carott and cabbage should be grated
  coarsely. Combine the olive oil and lemon juice; toss with the
  vegetables and season with salt and pepper. Serve immediately.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Knack-Knick (Chocolate Icebox Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 40 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 c  Margarine -- softened
      1 c  Cocoa
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Sweet red wine
    1/2 ts Vanilla or rum
      4 c  Crusehd vanilla wafers
           (about 50)
 
  Cream the margarine and sugar. Blend in the cocoa. Add the remaining
  ingredients in the order given. Roll the mixture into one or two long
  sausage shaped rolls and wrap in waxed paper. Freeze for 2 hours, then
  slice into 1/4 inch rounds. No cooking is req
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kneidlach (Matzah Balls)
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 20 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
    3/4 c  Matzah flour
      2 lg Eggs slightly beaten
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
      2    Sprigs parsley -- finely
           Chopped
      1 sm Onion -- chopped and fried
           Until crisp in
      2 tb Oil
      1 tb Cold water
 
  Mix the ingredients in the order given. Form the mixture into small
  balls and drop into the boiling soup; cook over medium heat,
  uncovered, about 20 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ktsitsot (Superior Meatballs)
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      2 lb Ground beef
      2    Potatoes, peeled -- boiled
           And mashed
      1    Zucchini -- finely grated
      2    Stalks celery -- finely
           Chopped
      2 tb Flour
      1 tb Cooking oil
      3 lg Eggs -- slightly beaten
           Bread crumbs
      2 c  Warmed beef bouillon
           Oil or margarine
 
  * Ktsitsot means chopped in Hebrew Mix all except the beaten egg, the
  bread crumbs and the bouillon. Form medium sized meatballs and roll
  each in bread crumbs. Dip them in the beaten egg and dry them in the
  heatedoil or magarine, turning them to brown on all sides. When they
  are browned, p
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kubbeh (Burghul And Beef Handfuls)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 26 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
           Outer shells
    1/2 lb #3 burghul (cracked wheat)
    1/2 lb Ground beef or lamb
      1 md Onion -- finely grated
    1/2 ts Mint leaes
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Cold water
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
           Vegetable oil
           Filling
  1 1/2 lg Onions finely chopped
           Olive oil
    1/4 lb Chopped beef or lamb
    1/8 c  Pine nuts (pignolias)
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  ds Cumin ds Cinnamon NOTE: a meat grinder or food mill is required
  for this recipe. Shells: place the burghul in a bowl and pour boiling
  water over; let sit for 1/2 hour. Squeeze out the water. Add burghul
  to the meat and using the fine blade of the grinder, put the whole mxt
  
  Filling: Saute the onions slowly in olive oil until soft. Add the
  onions to the meat and cook until meat is browned. In a separate pan
  brown thepine nuts in oil until golden. Season with, salt, pepper,
  cumin and cinnamon.
  
  Preparation: Wet your hands with cold water. take a small lump about
  the size of a walnut of the shell mixture in one hand, smooth into a
  ball, then form a cone over your thumb. Press the sides to make a
  thin wall. place about a T of the filing into the o variations: for a
  main couse, preheat the oven to 350. grease a 9 inch round or square
  baking pan, spread half the shell mixure over the bottom, place the
  filling on top and cover with the rest of the shell mixture. melt 1/4
  cup margarine and trickle it over the surface. bake for 1 hour until
  dark brown and c
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lahmeh Al Warak ( Lamb On Grape Leaves)
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans
      6    Grape leaves -- canned or
           Fresh -- fresh are better
      1 lb Lamb cut in bite size cubes
      2    Onions chopped
      2 tb Oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
    3/4 ts Allspice
    1/4 c  Pine nuts (Pignolias)
           Juice of 1 lemon
 
  If fresh grape leaves are used, soak them in hot water for 5 minutes.
  Squeeze them dry. If canned or bottle leaves are used, soak them
  overnight in cold water to get rid of the salt. Squeeze dry.
  
  Preheat oven to 350.
  
  Saute the meat and onions in oil until the meat is brown on all sides.
  Season with salt, pepper and allspice. Place half the leaes in the
  bottom of a low oven proof dish. Spread the meat mixture over,
  sprinkle with the pignolias and place the rest of the Cover the dish
  with a larger dish with water in it and bake in the oven for 1/2
  hour.Tastes good with rice.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of  Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Meringues
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 18 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Meringues
      6 lg Egg whites
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      2 c  Fine sugar -- sifted
      2 ts White vinegar
      1 ts Vanilla
           Lemon filling
      6 lg Egg yolks -- slightly
           Beaten
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
    3/4 c  Water
           Juice and grated rind of
  1 1/2    Lemons
 
  Meringues: At High speed on the mixer, beat the egg whites with cream
  of tartar just until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in the sugar,
  1/4 c at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in the
  vanilla and vinegar. Continue beating 12 minutes longer
  
  Grease 2 cookie sheets,, and with an ice cream scoop or a large spoon,
  mount the meringue on the cookie sheets, keeping each ball smooth.
  Make a deep pocket in the center of eachby twiring the back of a
  teaspoon around. bake for 1 hour.  Turn the oven off
  
  Lemon filling: To the slightly beaten yolks add the flour, water,
  sugar and lemn. Cook them in the top of a double boiler over hot
  water, stirring constantly, until thick. Cool.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lokshen Kugel (Sweet Noodle Pudding)
 Categories: Desserts, Puddings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      8 oz Broad noodles
      1 c  Pot cheese
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 lg Egg beaten slightly
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Sugar
    3/4 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter melted
 
  preheat the oven to 350. Cook the noodles as directed on the package.
  Drain well. Stir in the remaiing ingredients and half the melted
  margarine. Place in a greased casserole and pour over the remaining
  melted margarine. bake uncovered for 1 hour.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maklouba (Upside Sown Eggplant-Lamb Rice Casserole
 Categories: Rice, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans Fwds07a
      1 c  Rice
      1 tb Salt
  1 1/2 lb Lamb or beef ( one third of
           Meat should be slightly
           Fatty) cut into 1/2 inch to
      1    Inch pieces
      2 lg Onions -- chopped small
    1/4 c  Pine nuts -- slivered
           Almonds
           Or chopped walnuts
    3/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Allspice
        pn Paprika
           Pepper to taste
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 lg Eggplant
        pn Saffron
    1/2    To 1 cup beef stock
           Cooking oil
      1    Variation
      6    Carrots
      3    Chopped onions
      2    Variation
      1 md Cauliflower
    1/2 ts Cumin
 
  pn Of salt Rinse the rice, place it in a bowl, cover it with hot
  water and salt and let stand for one half hour. ( This ensures non
  sticky rice) Meanwhile, saute the meat, onions and nuts in the
  cooking oil unti the meat is browned on all sides. Stir in the
  nutmeg, Invert a serving plate on top and turn out the contents.  The
  Maklouba will remain in place until youcut into it to serve.
  Variation 1: Peel and slice the carrots into 1 inch thick slices.
  Instead of adding the onions to the meat, brown the carrot slices
  Variation 2: Soak the cauliflower, cut off the stem and the leaves
  and separate the flowerets. Place in a saucepan, cover with water,
  then add the cumin and salt. Bring the water to a boil and cook for 5
  minutes. Drain the flowerets, slice and brown them
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maste Kheyar (Cold Cucumber-Yoghurt Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      4 sm Cucumbers
      1 ts Salt
      2    Garlic buds -- minced to
           Taste
      1 tb Chopped fresh dill or to
           Taste
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
      4 c  Plain yoghurt
      1 tb Chopped fresh mint leaves
      1    Tomato -- peeled and
           Chopped
 
  Peel the cucumbers if the skin is waxy. Otherwise draw tines of a fork
  lengthwise all around so that slices will be scalloped. Slice the
  cucumbers thin and sprinkle them with salt. Mix them together with
  the other ingredients, reserving the chopped mint a
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mayonnaise Lurie
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      2 lg Whole eggs
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Pepper
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Heaping dijon mustard
    1/2 ts Paprika
      4 c  Vegetable oil -- do not use
           Olive oil
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice or to
           Taste
 
  Beat all together except oil and lemon juce. Add the oil, 1/4 cup at a
  time, beating well after each addition, When all the oil hasbeen
  thoroughly beaten in, add lemon juice to taste. The mayonnaise should
  have a sweet and sour taste. Store it in covered
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melanzana Alla Giudea (Jewish Style Eggplant)
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      4 lg Eggplants
      2 ts Salt
     40    Milliliters
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1 tb Butter
           Garlic -- minced
 
  Wash the eggplants well; cut off the stemps. Slice themin half
  lengthwise and scrape out the pulp, leaving a 1/2 inch of shell.
  Reserve the pulp for spinach fritters. Cut the skins into 1 inch
  squares. Place the squares in a strainer or colander and mix with
  salt. Place a heavy saucepan on top to crush and set aside for one
  hour so that the bitter juice drains off. Heat the oil and butter in
  a frying pan and cook the squares with garlic, covered, until
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mint Lamb
 Categories: Meats, Jerusalem
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      3 lb Shoulder lamb with bones
      2 lg Onions -- quartered
           Salt and pepper to taste
      4 lg Potatoes -- peeled and
           Halved
  1 1/2 c  Fresh green peas
    3/4 c  Fresh mint leaves
 
  Place the lamb bones and meat and onions in a large kettle. Cover with
  water and bring to the boil. Skim the froth from the surface and
  season with salt and pepper. Add the potatoes, cover and simmer until
  the meat is tender, about 2 hours. 15-20 minutes
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minted Pilaf
 Categories: Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      6 tb Margarine
      1 lg Onion -- chopped coarsely
      2 lg Garlic cloves -- crushed
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Ground cardamom
      1 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 c  Raw rice -- rinsed and
           Strained
    1/8 ts Saffron
    3/4 c  Fresh mint leaves --
           Chopped
           Fine
    3/4 c  Fresh coriander leaves
           Optional
      1 lg Tomato -- peeled and sliced
    3/4 c  Green peas, fresh preferred
           But frozen will do
      3    Carrots chopped fine
      1 c  Light colored raisins
      2 tb Emon juice
      3 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Pine or cashew nuts
           Lightly toasted or deep
           Fried
           Onion strips or rings
 
  Heat the margarine and saute the onion until golden. Sitr in the
  garlic, ginger, cloves, cardamom, cinnamon and rice. Saute for
  several minutes. Add the saffron, mint, coriander if desired, tomatoe
  slices, peas, carrots and raisins,Stir to mix the ingredients. Add
  the water, lemon juice and salt. bring to a
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: More Than Mousse
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      7 oz Bitter chocolate
      1 tb Water
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Cointreau or Grand Marnier
      3 lg Eggs -- separated
 
  Melt the chocolate with water and sugar. beat the egg whites until
  peaks form and the mixture is glossy but not dry. Beat the egg yolks,
  lightly and add then to the chocolate mixture with the butter and
  cointreau. Fold the chocolate mixture into the egg whites and blend
  until everything is evenly mixed. Divide the mousse among 8 demitasse
  cups or small dessert dishes. It is very rich.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moscow Beef Stroganoff
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans  fwds07a
      2 lb Porterhouse, tenderloin
           Or fillet steak
      4 tb Margarine
      1 lg Onion -- minced
     10    Milliliters
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms -- sliced
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Beef broth
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Mustard
           Fresh dill or parsley for
           Garnish
           Garlic -- minced
 
  Cut the steak into narrow strips about 2 inches long. Melt 2 T of the
  margarine, add the onion and cook until golden. Add the meat and cook,
  stirring occasionally, until the meat is brown on all sides and
  tender; about 5-7 minutes. Set aside. Melt 2 more T of the margarine
  and add the garlic. Stir and cook a
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mousht (Fish With Tahnia)
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
      4 sm St peters fish or trout
      2 md Size onions -- sliced
      1 sm Can tahina
      1 tb Lemon juice
     10    Milliliters
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Garlic -- crushed
 
  Preheat oven to 325. heat a small amount of cooking oil and saute the
  onion slices for a few minutes. Add the fish and saute them for a min
  or so on each side just to flavor them.In a bowl blend the tahina
  with the lemn juice and garlic. Sprinkle the fish
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of  Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moussaka (Eggplant And Lamb Casserole)
 Categories: Greek, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans
      2 md Egg plants about 2 lbs
           Total
           Cooking oil
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
      1 lb Chopped lamb or beef
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley -- minced
    1/2 c  Red wine
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 ts Cinnamon
           Salt and pepper to taste
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
      2 c  Milk
      2 lg Eggs -- slightly beaten
      1 c  Cottage or ricotta cheese
      1 c  Parmesan cheese
      1 c  Breadcrumbs
 
  Peel and slice the eggplant. In a large fryng pan, saute the slices
  in oil and set them aside. Then cook the onion in the frying pan unti
  tender. Add the chopped beef and cook until brown. Add the parsley,
  wine, tomato paste, cinnamon, salt and pepper. Co About 1/2 hour. In
  a saucepan, melt the butter and then add the flour, stirring until
  all the flour is absorbed. Remove from the heat and let it cool
  slightly. Then gradually addthe milk, stirring constantly. Return it
  to low heat and stir until the sauc
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of  Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mulled Wine Pears
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 qt Bottle dry red wine
    1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Cinnamon sticks
      8    Whole cloves
      2 ts Lemon juice
      8 lg Pears
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Place the wine, sugar, cinnamon, cloves and lemon juice in a large
  saucepan.  Simmer them uncovered for about 10 minutes until the
  mixture thickens slightly. Peel the pears but leave the stems on.
  Place them in the wine mixture, cover and cook them for 1/2 hour. The
  wine should be simmering gently. Baste the pears occasionally. Beat
  the cream until it is stiff and fold in the vanilla. The pears can be
  served warm or chilled. if possible stand each pear, stem up, in a
  glass dessert dish and pour the wine around it
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ngabaung Jyaw (Squash Strips Tempura)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      4 md Hubbard or zucchini squash
    1/4 c  Cornmeal
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Ground rice -- cream of
           Rice
           Or rice flour
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Ginger
    1/8 ts Saffron
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 lg Egg
           Cold water
           Vegetable oil for frying
 
  Scrub the unpeeled squash and cut into thin strips 3 inches long like
  french fries. Mix the cornmeal, flour and ground rice with spices,
  add the well beaten egg and cold water until themixture forms a
  creamy paste. Like cake batter thick but pourable. Add the strips and
  coat thoroughly. heat vegetable oil to 350. Drop clumps of squash
  strips into the hot oil and cook 8-10 minutes or until golden brown.
  Drain.  The strips are not fried separately; they are done in cl
  
  since Ngabaung must be eaten hot, it can be done in an electric
  frying pan at a party or for a snack. Shrimp or think onion slices
  can be prepared the same way.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nourishing Dish (Lamb And Barley Stew)
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      3 tb Cooking oil
      2    Onions coarsely chopped
  2 1/2 lb Stewing lamb -- cut in
           Small
           Pieces
     30    Milliliters
      2 ts Cider vinegar
      2    Stalks celery with leaves
           Chopped
      1 sm Bunch fresh mint --
           Coarsely
           Chopped
      4 c  Boiling water
      1 lb Zucchini -- cut in 1/4 inch
           Rounds
        pn Saffron
      1 c  Barley
      5 tb Chopped fresh dill
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
      2 lg Eggs
           Juice of 1 lemon
           Garlic -- minced
 
  heat the oil and saute the onions until transparent. Add the meat and
  garlic and brown, Sprinkle with the vinegar. Tie up the celery and
  mint in a square of cheesecloth and add it, with the tomatoes and
  water to the meat. cover and simmer for 1 1/2 hours. Remove the
  celery and mint and add the zucchini, saf
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oatmeal Wafers
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 60 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
    2/3 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Oatmeal
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      4 tb Heavy cream
      4 tb Corn syrup
 
  Preheat oven to 350. In a large saucepan, melt the butter. then stir
  in all the other ingredients in the order given. Blend well. Drop the
  batter by rounded tsp on a heavily greased cookie sheet. Leave space
  between teaspoonfuls, as the wafers will spread
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Rum Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Cake
      1 c  Softened butter
      1 c  Sugar
           Grated rind of 1/2 large
           Orange -- keep fruit for
           Topping
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
           Keep fruit for topping
      2 lg Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Buttermilk -- sour cream
           May
           Be used instead
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts
           Topping
           Juice of 1 lemon
           Juice of 2 oranges
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Light or dark rum -- brandy
           May be used instead
      1 c  Whipped cream -- optional
 
  Cake: Preheat oven to 350 Cream the butter and sugar until they are
  light and fluffy. Add the grated fruit rinds and the eggs, one at a
  time. beat well. Sift together the dry ingredients and add them to
  the butter mixture alternately with the buttermilk.; beat the abtter
  until it
  
  Topping: Strain the juices into a saucepan. Then add the sugar and
  rum. Bring the mixture to a boil, cook for 1 minute, and turn off the
  heat. When the cake is donek remove it from the oven, cool it for a
  few minutes and then poke holes into the surface w
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pastitsio (Baked Macaroni And Meat)
 Categories: Meats, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 lb Ground lamb or beef -- or
           More
           If desired
    3/4 c  Chopped peeled tomato
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/2 c  Grated gruyere cheese
      1 lb Macaroni -- cooked and
           Drained
           Sauce
      2 tb Margarine or butter
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White pepper
      1 c  Milk
      1 lg Egg yolk
    1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
 
  In a skillet heat the oil, cook the onion and meat over high heat
  stirring constantly for 5 minutes. Stir in the tomatoes, salt,
  pepper, and oregano. Cook over low heat 5 minutes.Stir inthe cheese
  and check for seasonings. In a buttered 2 quart casserole,
  
  Sauce: Melt the margarine or butter in a saucepan; gradually blend in
  the flour, salt and pepper. Add the milk gradually, stirring
  constantly , until the mixture comes to a boil.Cook it over low heat
  5 minutes. beat the egg yolk and cheese in a bowl; add
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepparkakor ( Spiced Molasses Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 200 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Cookies
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
  1 3/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Molasses
    3/4 tb Cinnamon
    3/4 tb Ground ginger
    1/2 tb Ground cloves
  1 1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 tb Baking soda
      1 ts Water
  5 1/2 c  Flour
           Cookie paint
      1 lg Egg yolk
      2 tb Milk or water
           Food coloring
           Cookie icing
    1/2 c  Melted butter
      4 c  Confectioners sugar
      2 tb Vanilla
           Few drops milk or light
           Cream
           Few drops food coloring
 
  Cookies: cr eam the sugar and butter. Stir in the molasses and
  spices. Whip the cream until just stiff and blend it into the butter
  molasses mixture, little by little. Dilute the baking soda in the
  water and blend it in well into the batter. Work in the f When you
  are ready to cut out the cookies, let the dough stand at room temp
  about 1/2 hour before starting.
  
  preheat oven to 350 Grease a cookie sheet, flour a board and rolling
  pin lightly and roll out a small piece of dough to test to see if it
  is of the right consistency. if it is not stiff enough, workin more
  flour. Roll the dough thin and cut out shapes with cookie cutters.
  
  this recipe makes a huge amunt of dough because of the tradition of
  inviting friends in to help cut and decorate the cookies.
  
  Before baknig you can paint some of the cookies, using the cookie
  paint, and decorate them with raisins. sprinkles or candied fruits.
  Place the decorated and undecorated shapes on cookie sheets and bake
  them 5-7 minutes until they are nicely browned. When cooled, the
  cookies may be iced. Store them in an airtight container. The dough
  freezes well and also c
  
  Cookie Paint: beat the yolk lightly, add milk or water, divide this
  mixture into as many  batches as the different colors you wish to
  use. Add a few drops of food coloring to each batch. Using a small
  paintbrush, paint the cookies. This must be done befor
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Persian Pilaf
 Categories: Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 c  Rice
      1 lg Onion
      2 lg Or 4 small carrots
      1 lg Potato
  2 1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
           Margarine
           Cooking oil
      2 ts Saffron
    1/2 c  Raisins
 
  Place the rice in a bowl and cover it with water, not the 2 1/4 cups
  to soak.  Chop the onion coarsely, then clean the carrots and chop
  them into small pieces. Peel and slice the potato into thick
  crosswise circles. Drain the rice in a colander and rinse it with
  cold water. Place the rice and 2 1/4 cup of water in a pot, sprinkle
  with salt and quickly bring to a boil. In order not to waste pots,
  cook the rice in Cover the pot with a dish towel, place the lid on
  top and cook over low heat 20 minutes until the rice is fluffy and
  the grains are separated. While the rice is cooking, add the carrots
  and raisins to the onions and cook, covered, over low heat until tend
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piments Rouges (Roasted Red Peppers)
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      4 lg Red peppers
      4 tb Cooking oil
           Salt to taste
 
  Place the whole peppers on a flat baking tray and roast them, turning
  them often, until the skin is soft, about 20 minutes. Remove and peel
  them. Cut the peppers in half and remove the seeds. Saute the peppers
  in oil until they are darken. Season them wit
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pirogen (Meat And Cheese Turnovers)
 Categories: Pasta, Breads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldsmith
      1    Recipe potatoe knishes
           Dough
           Divided in half
           Meat filling
      2 sl White or rye bread
      1    Cube chicken or beef
           Bouillon dissolved in 1 cup
           Hot water
           Margarine
      2 sm Onions -- chopped coarsley
      2 c  Cooked ground meat --
           Chicken
           Veal or lamb or beef
      1 lg Egg slight beaten
    1/2 ts Rosemary
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 lg Egg yolk -- to brush on
           Dough
           Cheese filling
           Margarine
      1 lg Onion chopped fine
      2 c  Lg curd cottage cheese
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Bread crumbs from fresh
           White bread
 
  After making the dough for potato Knishes and dividing it in half use
  1/2 for meat pirogen and the other for the cheese pirogen.
  
  Meat filling: Soften the bread in the bouillon, then drain, heat the
  margarine until very hot, then saute the onions and softened bread.
  Mix in the meat and cook 5 minutes. Stir in the beaten whole egg and
  egg white. Season with rosemary and salt and pepp
  
  Cheese fillling: Heat the margarine, saute the onion until tender.
  Season the cheese with salt and pepper, add the onion and enough
  bread crumbs to make the mixture firm.
  Procedure: Roll the dough thin and cut into 2 inch circles. Plae
  filling on 1/2 of a circle fold the other side and crmp the edges to
  close with a fork dipped in cold water. continue until the dough and
  filling are use dup, or roll the dough into a large
  
  Preheat oven to 375 Place the pirogen on a greased cookie sheet and
  brush the surface with the egg yolk beaten with a little water. bake
  35 minutes until golden brown. Serve warm, not hot. Cheese piorogen
  may be served with sour cream.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pita (Middle Eastern Flat Bread, Kimaje)
 Categories: Jerusalem, Breads
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      1 tb Or package yeast
      1 tb Salt
      2 tb Honey
  2 1/2    - three cups warm water
      5    - 6 cups flour
 
  Place the yeast, salt, honey and 1/2 cup warm water in a small bowl
  and let stand 10 minutes in a warm place. Place 4 cups flour in a
  large mixing bowl. Add the yeast mixture and 2 cups water. Mix
  vigorously for 1 minute and add 1 more cup flour. On a floured board,
  knead the bread for 10minutes, adding more flour if necessary to make
  a medium stiff dough. Clean
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plum Tart
 Categories: Pie/tart, Pastry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
           Rind of 1 lemon -- grated
      1 tb Sugar
      9 tb Margarine
  1 1/2 tb Cold water
      2 lb Fresh purple plums
      1 tb Lemon juice or
      1 tb Sugar*
           Custard topping
      1 c  Light cream
      2 lg Eggs plus
      1 lg Egg yolk -- slightly beaten
      2 tb Sugar
      4 ts Rum
           Nutmeg and sugar for
           Garnish
 
  procedure: Mix the flour, salt, lemon rind and sugar. Cut in the
  margarine with 2 knives or a pastry blender until the mixture is
  crumbly. Work in the water with your hands until the dough is well
  blended. Chill it for 1/2 hour.
  
  Preheat oven to 400.
  
  Press the dough into a 9 inch layer cake pan or a flan pan, pan with a
  removable bottom, brining the dough up the sides almost to the top of
  the pan, keeping the thickness even all around.
  
  Cut the plums in half and remove the pits. Place the plum halves,
  skin side down, so that the juice doesn't run out, and slighly
  overlapping each other, in a circle until the dough is covered or all
  the plums are used. If the plums are very sweet, sprinkl
  
  Custard topping: IN a medium size saucepan, heat the cream just until
  bubbles form around the edge. Beat together the eggs and egg yolk
  with the sugar. Add them to the craem and cook over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, until the mixture thickens. Stir
  
  Remove the tart from the oven and carefully pour the topping over the
  surface. Sprinkle it with nutmeg and a little sugar. Place the tart
  back in the oven for 15-20 minutes untilthe topping is lightly
  browned and a knife inserted in the deepest part of th
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Kugel N And G
 Categories: Jewish, Puddings
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      7    Or 8 medium potatoes
      1 lg Onion
      1 tb Vegetable oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
      3 lg Eggs separated
    1/4 c  Grated gruyere cheese
           Optional
 
  peel and slice the potatoes, cook them until tender in boiling water
  drain and mash them well. Preheat the oven to 350. Saute the onions
  in the vegetable oil until golden. Add theonions and beaten egg yolks
  to the potatoes; mix well. Season with salt and Clean beaters and bet
  the egg whites until stiff, then fold them into the mixture. Place in
  a greased baking dish, sprinkle with cheese if desired. bake
  uncovered for about 30 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prime Minister Eggplant A La Golda
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 md Large eggplant
           Salt
      3 lg Eggs
      2 ts Water
    3/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
           Oil for frying
      1 c  Tomato puree
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Peel the eggplant and slice it thinly crosswise. Sprinkle, each slice
  with salt and set it aside so that the bitter juice can drain off.
  beat the eggs with waer, salt and cheese. Dip each eggplant slice in
  the egg-cheese batter and fry it on both sides in very hot oil Remove
  and set it aside on a paper
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quesado De Espinaca Cheese And Spinach Pie
 Categories: Jerusalem, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
     12    Fillo leaves or 1 9 inch
           Frozen prepared double pie
           Crust or any double crust
           Filling
      1 lb Fresh or
  1 1/2 pk Frozen whole leaf spinach
      3    Stalks scallions -- chopped
           Fine with green part
      1 sm Onion -- chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
      6 oz Feta cheese
      2 oz Pot cheese
      2 lg Eggs beaten
    1/4 c  Fresh dill -- finely
           Chopped
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley -- finely
           Chopped
           Fresh ground pepper
    3/4 c  Melted butter
 
  If using filo leaves, take from refrigerator 2 hours before
  beginning. Wash fresh spinach several times and chop coarsely. Thaw
  frozen spinach. Preheat oven to 350. Saute onions and scallions in
  olive oil until golden and then add spinach. Cook until just
  
  with a sharp knife, cut thepie into 15 pieces and bake one hour until
  golden and puffy. Serve hot or cold.
  
  Note: If using prpared crust, place mixture inside it and cover with
  remaining crust, bake 45 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Refrigerator Lemon Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- cake must
           Be made a
           Serving
           Base
  1 1/2 c  Cookie crumbs
      2 tb Melted butter
      2 tb Sugar -- less may be
           Required
           If cookies used for crumbs
           Are sweet
           Filling
      4 lg Egg yolks -- slighly beaten
      1    Scant tsp salt
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lemon rind
      2 tb Gelatin softened in
    1/2 c  Cold water
  1 2/3 lb Cream cheese -- softened
           And
           Mashed
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Whipping cream
      4 lg Egg whites -- beaten stiff
 
  base: combine the ingredients and press the crust into the bottom,
  not the sides, of a 12 inch square pan, Filling: In a saucepan place
  the egg yolks, salt, milk and sugar. cook and stir this over medium
  heat until the mixture thicens slightly. Add 1 tb of the rind mixture
  with the gelatin and water; cook and stir the mixture until it is
  blended. Remove it fro
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sabra Sour
 Categories: Beverages, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
    3/4    Glass sabra liqueur
      2 ts Fresh lemon juice
      2 ts Lemon squash ( Syrup)
 
  put the above into a chilled sour glass containing one ice cube. stir
  well and remove the ice cube.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sahlab (Middle East Grog)
 Categories: Beverages, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      4 c  Milk
      4 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Sahlab powder
      6    Arabic gums -- mashed fine
      2 tb Cornstarch
      4 tb Shredded coconut
      3 tb Crushed almonds -- pecans
           Or
           Pistachio nuts
      2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Place the milk, sahlab powder, gums and sugar in saucepan. Cook them
  over medium heat until the gums are melted. Lower the heat. Blend the
  cornstarch with enough cool water to make it a paste, then stir it
  into themilk mixture. Stir and cook until the mix Sprinle each with a
  part of the coconut, nuts and cinnamon. Serve it immediately. MOre
  sugar may be sered with sahlab if a sweeter drink is desired. Sahlab
  is perfect on a cold winters night or may be eaten with a spoon as a
  light dessert.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salade De Blettes (Beet Salad)
 Categories: Vegetables, Salads
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lb Beets
    1/3 c  Vinegar or lemon juice
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Minced parsley
     20    Milliliters
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Garlic -- minced
 
  Leaving tbe beets whole and unpeeled, with one inch of stem and the
  rot attached, scrub them thoroughly and boil them gently in water to
  cover untill just tender, for 30-60 minutes, depending on size.
  Drain, peel, and cut the beets into strips. Blend the Season them
  with salt and pepper, chill them well to serve
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salade De Carottes Crues ( Raw Carrot Salad)
 Categories: Vegetables, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lb Carrots
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      2 tb Vinegar or lemon juice
      3 tb Minced parsley
      2    Garlic cloves minced
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/4 ts Sugar optional
 
  Peel the carrots and grate them fine. Mix the oil and lemon juice
  together, add the carrots, parsley and garlic. Season with salt and
  pepper.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salade De Piments Verts (Green Pepper Salad)
 Categories: Vegetables, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      4 lg Green peppers
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
     20    Milliliters
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Garlic -- minced
 
  Preheat oven to 400.  Place the whole peppers on a flat baking tray
  and roast them, turning them often, until the skin is soft. Remove
  them from the oven and peel them. Remove theseeds and cut the peppers
  into strips. In a non metal dish mix the oil, lemo
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salat Chatzilim ( Eggplant Salad)
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans
           Nathan and goldman
      1 md Eggplant
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/4 c  Finely chopped green pepper
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper to taste
           Black olives
 
  Preheat the oven to 450. Place the egg plant on a cookie sheet and
  bake it for 30 minutes or until charred and tender. Remove the
  eggplant and let it cool slightly. Slice it in half lengthwise and
  scoop out the pulp with a spoon. Mash with a fork, do not Blend in
  the lemon juice and mayonnaise; sesason with salt and pepper. Chill
  well and serve garnished with black olives
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salat Gezer (Carrot Salad)
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      4    Carrots
      1    Handful raisins
    1/4 c  Fresh orange juice
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  Peel and grate the carrots. Mix in a bowl with the raisins, orange
  juice and sugar. Add more or less sugar according to taste.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sayadiah ( Fish With Nuts And Rice)
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 c  Rice
      1 tb Salt
      1 lb Fish fillets frozen or
           Fresh
           Cooking oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2    Onions chopped small
           Or more if you want
    1/2 c  Pine nuts (Pignolias) or
           Chopped almonds
      6 lg Carrots
      1 ts Cumin
      1 c  Boiling water
 
  Rinse the rice, place it in a bowl, cover it with hot water and salt,
  and let stand for 1/2 hour. This ensures non sticky rice. If they are
  frozen, thaw the fish fillets just enough to break them apart. brown
  the fish slightly in oil and season them with
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sfeeha (Jerusalem Pastry Hors D'oeuvres)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 29 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
           Dough
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Margarine or butter
      4 tb Plain yoghurt
           Cheese filling
    1/2 c  Feta cheese -- crumbled or
           Mashed
      1 lg Egg separated
      1 tb Finely chopped fresh
           Parsley
           Freshly ground pepper to
           Taste
           Meat filling
    1/2 c  Uncooked chopped beef
      1    Green onion -- chopped fine
      1 tb Finely chopped fresh
           Parsley
      1 lg Egg yolk
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 ts Cumin
      1 tb Chopped pine nuts --
           Pignolias
           Tahina filling
      4 tb Tahina
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
           Juice of 1 pressed garlic
           Clove
 
  Dough: Blend flour and salt. Cut in margarine with two knives or
  pastry blender until mixture is crumbly. Mix in yoghurt with fingers
  until well blended. divide dough into 3 equalparts and place i
  refrigerator while preparing fillings.
  
  Cheese filling: Mix cheese, egg yolk, and parsley and season with
  pepper. Save egg white for glaze Meat filling: mix the chopped beef,
  onion, parsley and egg yolk. Season with salt and pepper. Save cumin
  and pin nuts for topping.
  
  Tahina filling: Combine the ingredients and season with salt and
  pepper.
  
  Preparation: Roll out one part of dough as thin as you would for
  piecrust. Cut out 12-2" circles and place them on a ungreased cookie
  sheet. Divide the meat mixture evenly among the circles, spreading it
  almost to the edges. Sprinkle each with cumin and s
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shakshouka (Eggs In Tomato Sauce)
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lg Onion -- chopped small
           Cooking oil
      6 md Tomatoes
      4 lg Eggs
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  In a large frying pan with a cover, saute the onion pieces in cooking
  oil until they are light brown. Meanwhile, grate the tomatoes on the
  largest holes of a grater. Add the liquid pulp to the onions, cover
  and cook over low heat for 25 minutes. remove the cover and break the
  eggsover the surface. Stir gently to break the yolks, cover and cook
  for about 3 Serve on toast for breakfast or over rice for a luncheon
  or supper dish.
  
  Variation: One minced garlic clove can be added to the onion pieces,
  or 3-4 slices of red pimiento may be sauteed with the onions.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shorabat Adas ( Lentil Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
     20    Milliliters
      1    Stalk celery -- chopped
      2    Carrot -- chopped
      1 lb Lentils
  2 1/2 qt Chicken broth
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Parsley
      1 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Pepper
        pn Saffron
      1 ts Salt
           Juice of 1 lemon
           Garlic -- minced
 
  Heat the oil and saute the onion and garlic until just tender. Add the
  celery and carrot, stir to coat with oil, cover and cook for 5
  minutes. Add the lentils, broth, bay leaf, parsley, cumin, thyme,
  pepper and saffron. Cover and cook over low heat for 1
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smorrebrod Danish Open Faced Sandwiches
 Categories: Sandwich
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
           SMOKED HERRING SANDWICH
      1 sl Whole grain rye bread
      1    Pat sweet butter
      1    Whole smoked herring
           Chopped scallions
      1    Onion -- sliced in rings
           Salt and pepper to taste
           SALAMI SANDWICH
      1 sl Whole grain rye
      1    Pat sweet butter
      1    Or 2 pieces italian salami
           Smoked with garlic
      8    Peppercorns
      1 sl Green pepper
           CHEESE SANDWICH
      1 sl French or danish white
           Bread
      1    Generous pat of butter
    1/2    Inch thick slice camembert
           Cheese
      3 lg Radishes
           SWEET SMORREBROD
      1 sl Cracked vita bread
           Pat butter
           Generous spoonful honey
 
  Herring sandwich: Spread one slice of whle grain rye bread with
  butter. Place one whole smoked herring about 6 inches lng on top. The
  herring should be freshly smoked. Open up theherring, turn it upside
  down and pat it with a knife to loosen the skin.
  
  Remove skin and gently place the herring on top of the bread. This
  whole procedure must happen on your plate in front of your very eyes.
  Sprinkle chopped scallions and 1 or 2 onion rings on top of the
  herring. Add salt and pepper to taste. Drink one swig Salami
  Sandwich: Spread aother slice of good fresh whole grain rye bread
  with butter. Cover with 1 or 2 slices of salami, making sure the
  salamai hangs over the edge of the bread. Shove 8 peppercorns into
  the meat. Top the sandwich off with a slice of gr
  
  Cheese sandwich: Spread bread with butter, add camembert cheese so
  that it droops over the sides. Place radishes next to bread. Drink
  yet one more swig of schnapps and half a bottle of pilsner beer and
  you are ready for the last sandwich.
  
  Sweet Smorrebrod: Spread the cracked vita bread with butter and equal
  amounts of honey, until it runs off your fingers, If it is not all
  over your hands. Sandwich should be greasey and sticky up to your
  wrists.Arrange beautifully and eat.
  
  Recipe By     : ""The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sole With Cheese And Mushrooms In Wine Sauce
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Sole
      2 lb Sole filets -- cut into
           Serving size slices
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Wine Sauce with cheese &
           Mushrooms
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Light cream
      4 tb Grated cheddar or parmesan
           Cheese
    1/4 c  White wine
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
 
  sole: In a large skillet with a cover, heat to boiling 2 inches of
  water. with the salt and the lemon juice. Place the filets inthe
  water, overlapping slightly, but do not layer. Cover, reduce heat and
  simmer for about 5 minutes until the fish flakes with a fork. Drain
  the slices and keep them warm while preparing the sauce.
  
  Sauce:In a small pan, saute the sliced mushrooms in 1 T butter until
  brown. Drain on a paper towel and set aside, In a meduim size
  saucepan, melt the remaining 2 T butter and quickly stir in the flour
  and salt. Stir until smooth, immediately add the milk
  
  Place the filets on a serving platter and pour the sauce over.
  Sprinkle with parsley.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spafford Fresh Fruit Mold
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      2 lg Oranges
      1    Grapefruit
      2 lg Apples
      1 lg Pear
      2    Bananas
      1 c  Diced melon -- optional
      6    Maraschino cherries
           Quartered
      6 lg Eggs separated
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Gelatin soaked in
    3/4 c  Cold water
    1/4 c  Grand marnier -- kirsch or
           Cointreau
      2 c  Strained orange juice --
           Fresh
           Or frozen or canned
 
  grate finely the skins of the oranges and grapefruit, set the gratings
  aside in a large bowl. Peel all the fruit and cut it into cubes as for
  fruit salad. Drain it. Beat the egg yolks with the sugar and blend
  them with the grated rind.  In a large saucepa Add this liquid
  mixture to the egg yolk and fruit. Beat the egg whites until they are
  stiff and fold them into the fruit mixture. Chill this in the
  refrigerator for 2 hours. Serve in deep dessert dishes.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Special Herring
 Categories: Jerusalem, Fish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      2    Apples peeled and chopped
           Into small squares
      2    Onions -- peeled and
           Chopped
           Coarsley
      2 sm Cans tomato paste
      6    Herring cleaned -- soaked
           Over
           Night and filleted -- with
        ea Fillet cut into 5-6 pcs
 
  Put apples. onions and tomato paste in a small saucepan and bring to a
  boil. Lower heat and cook 2 minutes. Pour over herrig and chill before
  serving.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Fritters
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lb Fresh spinach or other
           Vegetable of your choice
      3 lg Eggs
      2 tb Milk -- fresh or sour or
           Buttermilk
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Minced onion
      1 tb Chopped celery
      1 tb Flour
           Cooking oil
 
  Rinse the spinach well, drain and chop it fine. Separate the eggs and
  beat the whites until they stand in soft peaks. combine the egg yolks
  with the milk, salt, pepper, onion, celery and flour. Fold in the
  beaten egg whites andthe spinach, mixing well. Shape into 8 3 inch
  patties. Fry in cooking oil u
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Squash Kugel N/G
 Categories: Puddings
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
 
  Peel the zucchini, chop it fine or grate it. Drain in a strainer. add
  the sugar, salt, cinnamon, raisins, nuts and oil. Mix lightly, Saute
  the onion until golden and add to the mixture with the eggs. Place in
  baking dish and bake 400 for 25 minutes or unt
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: St Francis Spaghetti Sauce With Chicken Liver
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Tomato sauce
      3 sl Bacon -- cut into small
           Piece
           Optional
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 md Size onion -- chopped fine
      1 lg Garlic clove -- minced
      3 lb Peeled and coarsely chopped
           Tomatoes or 2 large cans of
           Peeled tomatoes
      1 c  Tomato juice
    1/4 c  Fresh chopped parsley
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Parsley springs for garnish
           Chicken livers
      1 lb Chicken livers
      2 tb Cooking oil or butter
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
 
  Sauce: Saute the bacon in the olive oil, then add the onion, sauteing
  until it is golden. Stir in the garlic, tomatoes, tomato juice,
  parsley, bay leaf and salt and pepper. Cover and simmmer stirring
  occasionaly for 1/2 hor. You may have to add more tomat
  
  Livers: Wash the chicken livers, pat them dry and cut each in half,
  removing tissue, saute in oil or butter until browned. Season them
  with salt and pepper, add wine, and cook them over a low heat for 10
  minutes. After the tomato sauce is cooked, add the chicken livers and
  heat well. Serve over freshly prepared spaghetti or noodles. Sprinkle
  parsley on top
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sukiyaki For Seven
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 7 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lb Lean beef
      6    Onions
      4    Celery stalks
    1/2 c  Fresh green peas
      1 c  Bean sprouts
     10    Lettuce leaves
      6    Spinach leaves
      2    Green peppers
      1    Kohirabi
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Dry white wine or dry
           Sherry
      1 c  Beef stock
           Salt to taste
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 tb Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Blanched almonds -- halved
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms -- fresh
           Or dried -- or both
      1 c  Water chestnuts
      1 bn Green onions
      1 c  Peanut oil
      3    Pieces pork fat -- or sub
           For rendering
      3    Hours before serving --
           Slice
 
  slices. Peel and slice the onions into thin wedges. Arrange them
  attractively on a serving tray and refrigerate. Slice thin or chop
  all the vegetables except the mushrooms, water chestnuts, and green
  onions and place each ingredient in a separate mound on another
  serving dish, then refrigerate them, covere discard bits left over
  and start stir frying the ingredients as follows: onions, push then
  aside, proceed the same way with the peppers, celery, mushroms, more
  onions, and peas. Add the bean sprouts, chestnuts and green onions.
  pour on half of the soy sau
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tahina Parsley Dip
 Categories: Dips/spread, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
      1 c  Tahina
      1 c  Fresh lemon juce
     40    Milliliters
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Finely chopped fresh
           Parsley
    1/2 c  Finely chopped mint
           Optional
           Garlic -- mashed
 
  Mix the tahina and lemon juice. Mash the garlic cloves with the salt.
  Add to the tahina mixture, stir in the parsley. Taste the mixture for
  seasoning; you may also want to add a little more lemon juice. A nice
  variation is the addition of 1/2 c finely cho
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Topik (One-A-Year Hors D'oeuvre)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
           Outside crust
      3 md Potatoes
      2 tb Salt
      1 lb Dried chick peas
           Filling
      4 lb Onions
    1/4 c  Wanuts or pine nuts
    1/4 c  Currants
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      1 tb Cumin
      1 ts Allspice
    3/4 lb Tahina
           Lemon juice
           Olive oil
           Cinnamon
 
  one day before preparation, wash an soak the shick peas in lukewarm
  water to cover for 24 hours. then, drain and peel each pea. the next
  day cook them until tender enough to eat but not to soft. Put them
  through a food grinder or blender and set aside.
  
  Boil the halved and peeled potatoes until tender, mash until smooth.
  Blend the chick peas in with the potatoes and blend well using your
  hands, add salt and pepper and mix. Mosten your hands to prevent
  stocking. Cut the onions in round thin slices and cook until tender.
  Place them in a strainer for about 1 1/2 hours stirring occasionally,
  until all the liqud has run out. Blend the onions,nuts, currants,
  salt and pepper, cumin, allspice and finally the tahina. Set Sprinkle
  with cinnamon.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout With Almonds And Apples
 Categories: Fish, Jerusalem
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans
      6    Whole cleaned trout
           Flour
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
      1 tb Butter
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 c  Blanched almonds
    1/2 c  Melted butter or margarine
      2    Peeled and coarsley chopped
           Apples
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced mushrooms
    1/2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Preheat oven to 400. Wash the trout and pat dry. Coat them lightly
  with flour and fry in the oil/btter combination until crisp. Season
  them with salt and pepper. Set them aside onan oven proof platter.
  
  Saute the almonds in butter or margarine unti golden. Mix them with
  the apples, mushrooms and lemon juice and pour over the fish. bake
  for 10 minutes and garnish with chopped parsley to serve.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Viennese Kupferlin ( Crescent Cookies )
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 5 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 c  Salted margarine -- not
           Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Almonds -- not blanched
           Ground very fine
      2 c  Flour
 
  preheat oven to 250.
  
  Cream the margarine and sugar. Add the almonds, and then the flour.
  Using your fingers to mix the ingredients together is best. Take
  pieces of the dough the size of a plu, roll them into balls in the
  palm of your hand and then roll the dough into tube sha remove them
  from the oven, let them stand a few minutes and while they are still
  warm, sprinkle them with sugar.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Warak Enab (Grape Leaves Stuffed With Rice And Lamb)
 Categories: Meats, Jerusalem
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
     20    Grape leaves, fresh --
           Canned
           Or bottled
      1 c  Rice
      1 lb Chopped lamb
      2 tb Melted margarine
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Allspice
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
 
  if fresh grape leaves are used, soak them in hot water for 5 minutes.
  Squeeze them dry. If canned or bottled leaves are used, soak them over
  night in cold water to get rid of salt. Squeeze them dry. Soak the
  rice in water for 10 minutes. Drain well, mix w Cover and cook over
  low heat 25 minutes, adding the lemon juice for the last 5 minutes of
  cooking.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Winter Borscht (Meat Vegetable Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      6 c  Water
      2    Pcs marrow bone
      2 lb Lean bottom round -- blade
           Or chuck steak
      2 lb Beets
    1/2 sm White cabbage
      2    Carrots
      1 lg Onion
      3    Stalks celery
      1    Green pepper
      1    Red pepper
      1    Potato
      2    Or 3 garlic cloves --
           Minced
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 ts Sugar
           Juice of 1 lemon
           Oregano to taste
 
  In a large kettle bring water to boil, Add the meat and marrow bones
  and cook over medium heat until froth forms on the surface; skm off.
  While the meat is cooking, clean and peelthe vegetables;grate all of
  them. After the froth has been removed add the g
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yakne (Chilled Fish)
 Categories: Fish, Jerusalem
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 lb Fish fillets -- fresh or
           Frozen sliced
           Olive oil
      6 md Onions -- sliced thin
      6    Celery stalks with leaves
           Sliced thin
      6    Sprigs fresh parsley cut
           Coarsely
      4 md Tomatoes -- peeled cut in
        lg Pieces
      1 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper to
           Taste
      2 tb Water
 
  Thaw if frozen fillets are used. Heat the olive oil and saute the
  onion slices until browned but not crisp. Add the celery, parsley and
  tomatoes to the onions, Sprinkle with salt andpepper and stir to mix
  the ingredients. Stir in the water. Cover and simm Simmer until most
  of the liquid is absorbed and the fish flakes with a fork about 15
  minutes. Cool slightly. Place in the refrigerator and serve cold.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yemenite Soup ( A-Meal-In-One)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
    1/2 lb Beef shoulder or ribs
           With fat removed
      3    Pieces of marrow bone
      6    To 10 garlic buds --
           According
           To taste -- unpeeled
      1 lg Onion, peeled -- whole
      1    Carrot -- whole
      1 lg Tomato, almost quartered --
           But
           Not cut apart at bottom
      4    Sprigs parsley
      4    Sprigs dill
      2    Chicken legs -- including
           Thighs
      1    Zucchini
      2    Potatoes -- peeled
      4    Celery stalks
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
      1 c  Cooked noodles or rice
           Optional
 
  Place the beef and marrow bones with 1 1/2  quarts water in a kettle.
  Bring them to a boil and skim the froth from the surface, removing
  every bit. Lower the heat and add the garlic buds, ( by being left
  unpeeled they do not get soft in the cooking). Add
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Appetizer Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans
           Dressing
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      1 lg Garlic clove -- pressed
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 pn Sugar
           Salad
      8    Zucchini -- each about 4
           Inches long
           Lettuce leaves
      2 md Size tomatoes -- peeled and
           Chopped fine
    1/2 sm Green pepper chopped very
           Fine
      3 tb Very fnely chopped scalion
           Use a little of the green
           Part
      1 tb Capers -- chopped fine
      1    Sprig parsley -- chopped
           Fine
      1 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
 
  dressing: Combine all the ingredients and set aside.
  
  Salad: Simmer unpeeled whole zucchini in salted water for about 5
  minutes uncovered. Pour off the hot water and rinse with cold water
  immediately to stop the cooking process. Drain. Cut each zucchini in
  half lengthwise. Carefully scoop out the pulp, leavi Lay zucchini,
  cut side up in a flat non metal dish. Cover with half the dressing.
  Cover tightly with foil. place in refrigerator to marinate at least 4
  hours.
  
  When ready to serve, drain off and discard the marinade. Arrange
  lettuce leaves on a serving plate; place the zucchinis, cut side up,
  on top. Combine the other half of the dressing with the salad
  ingredients and mix well. Pour into and over the zucchini s
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Squares
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    1/2 lb Butter
      1 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Flour -- sifted
      1 c  Ground almonds
    1/4 ts Salt
      6    Egg yolks
     16    Blanched almonds
 
  Cream the butter; gradually add the sugar, beating until light and
  fluffy.
   Combine the flour, ground almonds and salt.  Add a little at a time
  to the butter mixture, alternating with 1 egg yolk at a time.  Turn
  into a buttered 8-inch-square pan. Mark off 16 squares and place an
  almond in the center of each square. Bake in a 350 degree oven 15
  minutes or until browned. Cut into sixteen squares. Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by B
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Charlotte  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Egg yolks
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ds Salt
      2 c  Grated apples
    1/3 c  Matzo meal
      2 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 tb Slivovitz (plum brandy)
      3    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
      4 tb Ground pecans
 
  Beat the egg yolks, sugar and salt until thick and lemon colored.
  Stir in the apples, matzo meal, lemon rind and slivovitz.  Fold in
  the egg whites.
   Turn into a greased 8-inch spring form pan.  Sprinkle the nuts on
  top. Bake in a 350 degree oven 35 m
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Schmarren
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/8 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Milk
  1 1/2 c  Sliced apples
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cinnamon
 
  Sift the flour and salt into a bowl.  Beat the eggs and milk together
  and add to flour, beating until smooth.  Stir in the apples.    Melt
  the butter in a 9-inch skillet and pour the mixture into it.    Bake
  in a 350 degree oven 15 minutes or until set.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Acorn Squash
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Acorn squash
    1/4 c  Melted butter or fat
    1/4 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Cut the squash in half lengthwise and scoop out the seeds and fibers.
  Prick the flesh in several places with a fork. Place in a baking pan
  cut side down.  Bake in a 375 degree oven 30 minutes.    Mix together
  the butter or fat, corn syrup and salt. Turn the squash over and
  divide the mixture among the four halv 4. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44Aon 03-21-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Fish And Vegetables
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Salad oil
      6 sl Carp, pike or whitefish
      3 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Pepper
      2    Tomatoes -- diced
      1 pk Frozen mixed vegetables --
           Defrosted
      3    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Sliced
      2    Onions -- sliced
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
 
  Heat the oil in a baking pan.  Sprinkle the fish with half the salt
  and pepper and place in the pan.  Bake in a 425 degree oven 10
  minutes.  Add the tomatoes, mixed vegetables,potatoes, onions, garlic
  powder and remaining salt and pepper.  Cover.  Reduce bake an
  additional 40 minutes, removing the cover for the last 15 minutes.
   Serves 6 to 8.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958
   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comi
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Herring
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Salt herring fillets
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Flour
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      3    Onions -- sliced
 
  Soak the herring in water to cover overnight.  Change the water once.
  Drain.    Dip the herring first in the milk and then in the flour
  (reserving the milk).  Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a baking dish and
  arrange the herring in it.  Cover with the sliced onions.  Dot with
  remaining butter and add reserved milk.    Bake in a 375 degree oven
  30 minutes.  Serves 4 to 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by B
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Herring And Potatoes
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Salt herring fillets
      3 tb Butter
      4    Boiled potatoes -- peeled
           And sliced
      2    Onions -- sliced
      2 tb Dry bread crumbs
 
  Soak the herring overnight in cold water to cover.  Drain and cut into
  1-inch pieces.    Melt 1 tablespoon butter in a baking dish. Arrange
  layers of the potatoes, herring and onions in it, starting and ending
  with the potatoes.  Sprinkle with the bread crumbs and dot with
  remaining butter. Bake in a 400 deg
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Limas In Chili Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dried lima beans
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
      1 c  Chili sauce
      2 tb Melted butter or fat
      1    Bay leaf
 
  Soak the beans overnight in water to cover.  Drain.  Add fresh water
  to cover, and bring to a boil.  Add the salt and sugar. Cook over low
  heat 1 1/2 hours.  Drain.    Combine the beans, chili sauce, butter
  or fat and bay leaf in a baking dish.  Bake in a 350 degree oven 1
  hour. Remove bay leaf.Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Stuffed Brook Trout Meuniere
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/2 c  Minced onion
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
      1 tb Minced parsley
      2 c  Coarsely crushed soda
           Crackers
      3 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Thyme
      4    Brook trout
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Melt half the butter in a skillet; cook the onion in it 5 minutes.
  Add the mushrooms and cook 5 minutes longer.  Mix in the parsley,
  crackers, 1 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon pepper and the thyme. Split
  the trout for stuffing and stuffwith the prepared mixture; sew the
  openings. Mix the flour with the remaini salt and pepper; roll the
  trout in it. Melt the remaining butter in skillet; cook the trout in
  it over low heat, turning until browned on all sides. Bake 20 minutes
  in 350 degree oven. To serve, sprinkle with the lemon juice. Serves
  4. Recipe Sou
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Sweet Lima Beans
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dried lima beans
      2 ts Salt
      3 tb Butter or fat
    1/2 c  Honey
 
  Soak the beans overnight in water to cover.  Drain.  Add fresh water
  to cover.    Cover and bring to a boil; cook over low heat 1 1/2
  hours, adding salt after 1 hour of cooking.  Drain.    Combine the
  beans, butter or fat and honey in a baking dish.  Bake
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Veal Chops
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Matzo or cracker meal
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs
      4    Veal chops
      4 tb Fat
      2    Onions -- thinly sliced
 
  Mix the meal, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and the pepper together.  Beat the
  eggs and remaining salt.  Dip the chops in the meal, the eggs and
  then the meal again.    Heat the fat in a baking pan.  Arrange the
  chops in it and surround with the sliced onions.  Ba
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Cake  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      7    Egg yolks
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Mashed bananas
    3/4 c  Potato starch -- sifted
      1 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
      7    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
           Whipped cream
           Sliced bananas
 
  Beat the egg yolks until thick.  Add the sugar and salt and beat until
  fluffy and lemon colored.  Stir in the bananas and potato starch,
  then the walnuts.  Fold in the egg whites.  Pour into 2 greased
  9-inch layer-cake pans.    Bake in a 350 degree oven 3 comes out
  clean. Cool on a cake rack. Spread whipped cream and sliced bananas
  on one layer and cover with the other. Serves 6 to 8.
   Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 0
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Ribs Of Beef
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Short ribs
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 c  Catchup
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Minced onions
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
 
  You can use the top of the roast beef bones.  Have them cut in 2-inch
  pieces.    Brown the ribs in a heated casserole or Dutch oven; pour
  off the fat.  Combine all the ingredients and add to ribs. Cover and
  bake in a 350 degree oven 2 hours.  Remove cover
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley Kugel
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Pearl barley
      4 c  Boiling water
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- chopped
      2    Onions -- diced
      2 tb Fat or butter
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs -- beaten
 
  Stir the barley into the water.  Bring to a boil; add the salt, cover
  and cook over low heat 45 minutes or until soft. Drain. Brown the
  mushrooms and onions in the fat or butter.  Add to the barley with
  the pepper and eggs. Taste for seasoning.  Turn into a greased baking
  dish or casserole. Bake in a 350 degree oven for 40 minutes or until
  browned and set. Serves 6 as a substitute for potatoes.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.
      (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A on 03-20-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barley-Bean Soup  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dried lima beans
      2 lb Plate flank
  2 1/2 qt Water
    1/4 c  Pearl barley
      2    Onions -- diced
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Soak the beans overnight in water to cover.  Drain.    Cook the meat
  in the water for 45 minutes.  Add the barley, onions and beans.  Cook
  over low heat 1 1/2 hours. Add the salt, pepper and parsley.  Cook 10
  minutes, or until the meat and beans are tender. Serves 6 to 8.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
      (c) 1958   Recipe formattedfor MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A
   on 03-09-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Panache
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Onion -- chopped
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 lb Green beans -- cooked and
           Drained
    1/2 lb Wax beans -- cooked and
           Drained
    1/2 lb Lima beans -- cooked and
           Drained
           Salt and pepper -- to taste
      1 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Cook the onion in the butter for 10 minutes.  Toss with the green,
  wax and lima beans.  Add salt and pepper to taste and sprinkle with
  the parsley. Serves 4 to 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
      (c) 1958   Recipe formattedfor MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A
   on 03-21-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blintzes  - Batter
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Milk or water
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Salad oil
    3/4 c  Flour -- sifted
           Butter or oil -- for frying
 
  Beat the eggs, milk, salt and salad oil together.  Stir in the flour.
  Heat a little butter or oil in a 6-inch skillet.  Pour about 2
  tablespoons of the batter into it, tilting the pan to coat the
  bottom.  Use just enough batter to make a very thin panc onto a
  napkin, browned side up. Make the rest of the pancakes.    Spread 1
  heaping tablespoon of any of the fillings (the recipes for five
  fillings are included in this database)along one side of the pancake.
  Turn opposite sides in and roll up like a je a 425 degree oven until
  browned.  Makes about 18.    Serve dairy blintzes with sour cream.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:  Joe Comi
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blintzes  - Sour-Cream Batter
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Sour cream
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
           Butter -- for frying
 
  Beat together the egg, milk, sour cream and salt.  Stir in the flour,
  mixing until smooth.    Heat some butter in a 7-inch skillet.  Pour
  about 2 tablespoons of the batter intoit, tilting the pan to spread
  the batter evenly.  Fry until browned and turn to brown other side.
  Place a heaping tablespoon of one of the fillings (the recipes for
  five fillings are included in this database) on each pancake.  Tuck
  in the opposite sides and roll up. Arrange in a b
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blintzes -  Apple Filling
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg white
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped apples
      4 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      3 tb Brown sugar
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  Beat the egg white until it begins to stiffen.  Fold in the apples,
  sugar and cinnamon.  Fill the pancakes and arrange in a buttered
  baking pan. Sprinkle with the brown sugar and butter.    Bake in a
  400 degree oven 20 minutes.  Makes about 18.    Recipe
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blintzes -  Blueberry Filling
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Blueberries
      3 tb Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
 
  Toss all the ingredients together.  Fill pancakes.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-22-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blintzes -  Cheese Filling
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Drained cottage cheese
      1    Egg yolk
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Melted butter
      2 tb Sugar -- (optional)
      1 ts Lemon juice -- (optional)
 
  Beat the cheese, egg yolk, salt and butter together.  Add the sugar or
  lemon juice if you like--some people like them sweet, some don't. Fill
  pancakes.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blintzes -  Meat Filling
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Ground cooked meat
      2 tb Grated onion
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Minced parsley
 
  Mix all of the ingredients together.  Fill pancakes.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook
  II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-22-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blintzes -  Vegetable Filling
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shredded cabbage
    1/2 c  Grated carrots
    1/2 c  Finely sliced green pepper
    3/4 c  Diced onions
      3 tb Butter or oil
      1 ts Salt
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
 
  Cook the cabbage, carrots, green pepper and onions in the butter or
  oil for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.  Season with the salt and
  cayenne. Fill the pancakes.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
      (c) 1958   Recipe formattedfor MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A
   on 03-22-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Carp
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Onions -- sliced
      2    Beets -- peeled and sliced
      3 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      6 sl Carp
 
  Combine the onions, beets, water, salt and pepper in a deep skillet.
  Place the fish in it.  Cover, bring to a boil and cook over low heat
  45 minutes, removing the cover after 30 minutes. Serve hot or
  chilled. Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958 Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook I
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Flanken
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Flank
      2 tb Fat
  1 1/2 qt Boiling water
      2    Onions
      2    Carrots
      3    Celery stalks
      3    Sprigs Parsley
      1 tb Salt
      6    Whole Peppercorns
 
  Lightly brown the flank in the fat.  Drain.  Add the water, onions,
  carrots, celery, parsley, salt and peppercorns.  Cover and cook over
  low heat 2 hours or until the meat is tender.  Strain the stock and
  serve as soup or use in other dishes.  Serve the m
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Pickled Tongue
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Pickled tongue -- * see
           Note
      1    Onion
      2    Garlic cloves
      2    Bay leaves
 
  * Note:  The recipe for "Pickled Tongue Or Corned Beef" is included
  in this database.    Wash the tongue.  Combine with onion, garlic and
  bay leaves in a deep kettle.  Cover with water.  Bring to a boil and
  cook over medium heat 3 1/2 hours or until tender.  Add boiling water
  as it cooks out. Let the tongue cool in the stock, then remove the
  root and skin. Reserve 2 cups stock if you want to make a sauce.
  Remove bay leaves. Slice the tongue and serve plain or with a sauce.
  Serves 6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Kale
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Kale
      4 tb Butter or fat
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
      3 tb Water
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Potato flour
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  Wash the kale and remove the tough veins.  Wash again in several
  changes of water.    Melt the butter or fat in a saucepan and stir in
  the garlic, kale, water, salt and pepper.Cover and cook over low heat
  15 minutes or until tender.  Mix together the pota minutes. Serves 4
  to 5. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-21-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread-Stuffed Breast Of Veal
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Breast of veal
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Fat
           -
      1    Onion -- minced
      1    Green pepper -- diced
      3    Celery stalks -- sliced
      3 tb Fat
      6 sl Bread
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Thyme
      1 ts Paprika
      1    Egg
           BREAD STUFFING-----
 
  Have the butcher make a pocket in the veal.  Sprinkle with the salt,
  pepper, paprika and garlic powder.    For the stuffing; cook the
  onion, green pepper and celery in the fat for 10 minutes, stirring
  occasionally. Soak the bread in water; squeeze dry and pull into
  small pieces. Add to vegetables with the salt, pepper, thyme, paprika
  and egg. Mix well. Stuff the pocket with the mixture.  Fasten the
  opening with skewers or thread. Melt the fat in a roasting pan and
  place the veal in it. Roast in a 325 degree oven 3hours or until meat
  is tender. Baste frequently and add a little water if pan
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buckwheat Pancakes
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk (or cake) Yeast
      1 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Lukewarm water
  2 1/2 c  Lukewarm stock or milk
      2 c  Buckwheat flour
      4    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Chicken fat or butter --
           Melted
           Fat or butter -- for frying
 
  Combine the yeast, sugar and water.  Let stand 5 minutes, then stir
  in 1 cup stock or milk and 1 cup buckwheat flour. Cover and let rise
  in a warm place until it bubbles and is double in bulk.    Beat the
  eggs and salt until thick.  Stirin the melted fat or butter,
  remaining stock or milk, remaining flour and th
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Borsch  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Brisket
           Beef bones
      2 qt Water
      2    Onions -- diced
      3 c  Canned tomatoes
      3 lb Cabbage -- coarsely
           Shredded
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Sugar
      3 tb Seedless raisins
 
  Combine the brisket, bones and water in a deep saucepan. Bring to a
  boil and skim.  Add the onions and tomatoes. Cover and cook over low
  heat 1 hour.  Add the cabbage, salt andpepper.  Cook 1 hour.  Stir in
  the lemon juice, sugar and raisins.  Cook 20 min
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Cabbage -- shredded
      2    Onions -- chopped
      4 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      4 c  Water
      2 c  Canned tomatoes
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Caraway seed
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Cook the cabbage and onions in the butter for 15 minutes. Sprinkle
  with the flour and gradually add the water, stirring constantly until
  mixture reaches the boiling point. Add the tomatoes, salt, pepper,
  sugar, lemon juice and caraway seed.  Cook over low heat 1 hour.
  Correct seasoning. Garnish with sour cream. Serves 6 to 8. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, In
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Calf's Brains Appetizer
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Vinegar
      2 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
      2    Calf's brains
    3/4 c  Chopped onions
      3 tb Salad oil
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 tb Lemon juice
 
  Bring the vinegar, water and salt to a boil.  Add the brains.  Cover
  and cook over low heat 25 minutes.  Drain and cool. Remove the
  membrane. Chop the brains, onions, oil, pepper and lemon juice
  together. Taste for seasoning.  Chill.  Serves 6.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Calf's Liver With Onion Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Calf's liver
    1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 tb Chicken fat
      3 c  Sliced onions
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Beef broth
 
  Have the liver sliced into 4 thin slices.  Dip in the flour mixed
  with the salt and pepper.    Heat the fat in a skillet and brown the
  liver on both sides.  Remove liver.  Brown the onions in the fat
  remaining in the pan. Mix the cornstarch and broth together and add
  to the onions, stirring constantly until mixture reaches the boiling
  point. Scrape the bottom of skillet and cook additional 2 minutes.
  Pour over the liver. Serves 4. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
   (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCoo
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot And Apple Tzimmes
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Grated carrots
      1 tb Fine barley
    3/4 c  Grated apples
      8 tb Butter or fat
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Combine all the ingredients in a sauce pan.  Cover and cook over low
  heat 2 hours, or until the barley is soft. Watch carefully while
  cooking and add more water if necessary.  Serves 6.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Pu
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Knaidlach  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Pot cheese
      2    Egg yolks -- beaten
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb Matzo meal
      3 tb Melted butter
      2 tb Sugar -- optional
      2    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Force the cheese through a food mill.  Stir in the egg yolks, salt,
  matzo meal and butter.  Add the sugar if you want to serve the
  knaidlach as a dessert, but omit if they are to be served in a dairy
  soup.  Fold in egg whites and chill 30 minutes.  Moiste with sugar,
  cinnamon and sour cream. Makes about 18.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A
  on 03-10-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Pancakes
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Egg yolks
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      2 c  Cottage cheese -- drained
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
      2    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
           Butter -- for frying
 
  Beat the egg yolks and sugar together.  Stir in the cottage cheese and
  flour and fold in the egg whites.    Heat enough butter to cover the
  bottom of a skillet about 1/4-inch. Drop the batter into it by the
  tablespoon. Fry until browned on both sides. Serve hot, garnished
  with sour cream and jelly.  Serves 4.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A  on 03-23-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Cantonese
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 tb Fat
      4 tb Flour
      3 c  Chicken stock
      3 c  Diced chicken
      1 c  Water chestnuts -- sliced
      1 c  Bamboo shoots -- sliced
    1/2 c  Bean sprouts
    1/2 c  Sliced scallions
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Boiled white rice
 
  Heat the fat and stir in the flour.  Gradually add the stock, stirring
  constantly until mixture reaches the boiling point. Add the chicken,
  water chestnuts, bamboo shoots, bean sprouts, scallions and pepper.
  Cook over low heat 20 minutes.  Taste to correct seasoning and serve
  on rice. Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Publis
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Soup  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Soup chicken
           Chicken feet -- * see note
  3 1/2 qt Water
      2    Onions
      1 tb Salt
      2    Carrots
      3    Celery stalks
      1    Parsley root
      2    Sprigs Dill
      3    Sprigs Parsley
 
  * Note:  The feet add strength to the soup, so use as many as you can
  get. Clean the chicken and feet thoroughly.  Combine in a deep
  saucepan with the water and onions.  Bring to a boil and cook over
  medium heat 1 1/2 hours. Add remaining ingredients.  Cover and cook
  over low heat 1 hour longer, or until chicken is tender.  Remove
  chicken and strain soup.    Makes about 2 to 2 1/2 quarts soup.  Use
  the chicken in other dishes or serve with the soup.    Recipe Source:
  THE ARTOF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chickpea "Hot Dogs"
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Dried chickpeas
      3 sl White bread -- trimmed
      2    Eggs
    1/2 ts Minced garlic
    1/4 ts Diced ground red peppers
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Fat for deep frying
 
  Wash the chickpeas and soak overnight in cold water. Drain.    Grind
  the peas and bread together.  Mix in the eggs, garlic, red peppers,
  salt and pepper.  Shape into finger-length rolls.  Chill for 1 hour.
    Heat the fat to 370 degrees in a deep kettle a
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chile Con Carne
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 tb Salad oil
      1 c  Thinly sliced onions
    1/2 c  Diced green pepper
      1 lb Ground chuck
  1 1/2 c  Barley water
      2 c  Canned tomatoes
      3 tb Chile powder
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      4 c  Cooked or canned kidney
           Beans
 
  Heat the oil in a heavy casserole or Dutch oven; cook the onions and
  green pepper for 10 minutes.  Add the meat and cook over high heat,
  stirring almost constantly until browned.  Add the water, tomatoes,
  chile powder, salt, sugar and garlic. Cover and cook over low heat 1
  hour. Add the beans and cook 30 minutes. Serves 8 to 10. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Publishedby
  Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Sweet-And-Sour Meat Balls
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs
      4 tb Flour
      1 c  Oil
      3    Green peppers -- diced
  1 1/4 c  Beef broth
  1 1/2 c  Pineapple chunks
      3 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Mix together the beef, 1 teaspoon salt and the pepper. Shape into 24
  balls. Mix together the eggs, flour and remaining salt.  Dip the meat
  balls in this batter.    Heat the oil in a skillet and brown the meat
  balls over low heat.  Remove meat balls and r cornstarch, soy sauce,
  vinegar and sugar. Stir into the mixture and cook until thickened.
  Return meat balls and cook over low heat 5 minutes. Serves 6. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cholent With Knaidel
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Dried lima beans
      3 lb Flanken
      3    Onions -- sliced
    3/4 c  Fat
      3    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Halved
      3 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 c  Water
    3/4 c  Matzo or cracker meal
 
  Soak the beans overnight in water to cover.  Drain.    Use a Dutch
  oven or baking dish and brown the meat and onions in 1/4 cup fat.
  Add the potatoes and 2 teaspoons salt and the pepper.    Beat the
  eggs, sugar, remaining fat and remaining salt together.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chopped Eggs And Onions
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8    Hard-boiled eggs
    3/4 c  Chopped onions
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      3 tb Rendered chicken fat
 
  Chop the eggs and onions together until very fine.  Blend in the salt,
  pepper and fat.  Chill.  Arrange on lettuce leaves.  Serves 6 as an
  appetizer or 12 as a spread.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCo
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chopped Herring
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Salt herring fillets
      3 tb Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped apple
      2    Hard-boiled eggs
      3 tb Cider vinegar
      2 sl White bread -- trimmed
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Salad oil
 
  Soak the herring in water to cover overnight.  Change the water twice.
  Drain.    Chop the onion, apple, eggs and herring together. Pour the
  vinegar over the bread and add to the herring with the sugar and oil.
  Chop until very smooth. Taste for seasoning, adding more vinegar if
  needed. Chill.    Serves 8 as a
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Borsch  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10 lg Beets -- peeled and grated
  2 1/2 qt Water
      1    Onion -- minced
  2 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Combine the beets, water, onion and salt in a saucepan. Bring to a
  boil and cook over low heat 1 hour.  Add sugar and lemon juice.  Cook
  10 minutes and taste to correct seasoning.    Beat the eggs in a
  bowl. Gradually add the soup, stirring steadily to p boiled potatoes.
  Garnish with sour cream. Makes about 2 quarts. Recipe Source: THE ART
  OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books,
  Inc. (c) 1958Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
   Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-09-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Fruit Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Pitted plums
      1 c  Pitted sour red cherries
      1 c  Sliced peaches
      6 qt Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Cornstarch
      6 tb Sour cream
 
  Combine the fruit, water, sugar, salt and cinnamon in a saucepan.
  Bring to a boil and cook over low heat 15 minutes.  Force through a
  food mill.
   Mix the cornstarch with a little water and stir into the fruit
  mixture. Cook over low heat 10 minutes, st
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornish Hen With Wild Rice
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 c  Wild rice
    1/4 c  Minced onion
    1/4 c  Chopped mushrooms
           Ground giblets of hen
      4 tb Chicken fat
      3 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Pepper
      3 lb Cornish hen -- (1 large or 2
           Small)
    1/2 c  Boiling water
 
  Cook the wild rice according to directions on package. Drain.    Cook
  the onion, mushrooms and giblets in 2 tablespoons chicken fat for 10
  minutes. Stir in the rice, 1 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper.
    Season the hen or hens with the remaining sa
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cottage Cheese Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Onion -- chopped
      1    Celery stalk -- chopped
      2    Green peppers -- chopped
      3 tb Butter
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
      3 c  Water
      3 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Light cream
      1 c  Cottage cheese
 
  Cook the onion, celery and green peppers in the butter for 15
  minutes. Add the salt, pepper, paprika, water and milk.  Cover and
  cook over low heat 1 hour.  Just before serving, add the cream and
  cheese.  Heat but don't boil. Serves 8.    Recipe Source:
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Of Corn Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Minced onion
      3 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      3 c  Milk
      1 cn (#2) Cream-style corn
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 ts Minced pimento
 
  Cook the onion in the butter for 10 minutes.  Sprinkle with the flour
  and gradually add the milk, stirring constantly until mixture reaches
  the boiling point.  Add the corn, salt, pepper and pimento. Cook over
  low heat 10 minutes.  Serves 6.
     Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.      (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamed Beets
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Grated beets
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Water
  1 1/2 tb Potato flour
      1 c  Light cream
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter
 
  Cook the beets, lemon juice and water for 15 minutes or until beets
  are tender.  Drain.    Mix the potato flour and cream in a saucepan.
  Cook over low heat for 5 minutes, stirring constantly.  Stir in the
  beets, salt and butter.  Cook 5 minutes.  Serves
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cucumbers In Dill
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Cucumbers
      1 c  Boiling water
    3/4 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      3 tb Minced dill
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 ts Sugar
 
  Peel the cucumbers and slice very thin.  Pour the boiling water over
  them and let stand for 5 minutes.  Drain and plunge into ice water.
  Drain again. Mix together the sour cream, lemon juice, dill, salt,
  pepper and sugar. Pour over the cucumbers, tossing until well mixed.
  Chill for 30 minutes before servin
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy Liver
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Salad oil
  1 1/2 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
    1/2 c  Diced onion
      1    Hard-boiled egg
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Heat the oil in a skillet.  Cook the mushrooms and onion over medium
  heat for 10 minutes.    Chop the mushrooms, onion, egg, salt and
  pepper together until smooth.  Chill.  Serves 6 as an appetizer or 12
  as a spread. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH CO
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy Noodle Ring
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3 c  Cooked medium noodles --
           Drained
      2 tb Dry bread crumbs
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  Cream the cheese with the eggs, sugar and salt.  Stir in the noodles.
  Turn into a buttered 9-inch ring mold. Sprinkle with the bread crumbs
  and butter.    Bake in a 375 degreeoven 40 minutes or until browned.
  Unmold carefully.  Serves 6.    Recipe Source
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy Stuffed Peppers
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Green peppers
      5 tb Butter
      2 c  Diced onions
      1 lb Mushrooms -- chopped
      2 c  Half-cooked rice
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Egg
      2 tb Potato flour
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Canned tomatoes
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  Cut a 1-inch piece from the stem end of the peppers. Scoop out the
  seeds and fibers carefully.  Cook the peppers in boiling water for 5
  minutes, then drain.    Melt half the butter in a skillet and brown
  half the onions and all the mushrooms in it.  Stir teaspoons salt,
  the pepper and the egg. Stuff the peppers with the mixture. Mix the
  potato flour and water in a saucepan.  Stir in the tomatoes,
  remaining salt and onions. Arrange the peppers in it, opend end up.
  Cover and cook over low heat 1 hour, basting frequently.  Stir in the
  sour cream a few minutes before serving. Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comi
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy Tzimmes
 Categories: Jewish, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Prunes
      4 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Farfel
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Honey
      4 tb Butter
 
  Wash the prunes and soak in the water for 1 hour.  Bring to a boil
  and add the farfel, salt, lemon juice, honey and butter.    Place
  mixture in baking dish.  Cover and bake in a 375 degree oven 45
  minutes, removing the cover for the last 15 minutes.  Serv
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dairy-Style Cabbage
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 c  Shredded cabbage
      4 tb Butter
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Cook the cabbage in the butter over low heat for 45 minutes, stirring
  frequently.  Stir in the salt, lemon juice and sugar. Cook 5 minutes
  longer.    Beat the egg and sour cream together and add to the
  cabbage, mixing steadily until it begins to thicken.  Serve 4 to 6.
  Recipe Source: THEART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Date-Nut Torte
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Bread crumbs
      8    Egg yolks
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      2 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
      2 c  Chopped dates
      4 tb Flour
      8    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Grease a 9-inch spring-form pan and dust it with the bread crumbs.
    Beat the egg yolks; gradually add the sugar.  Beat until thick.
  Mix together the nuts, dates and flour.  Stir into the egg-yolk
  mixture.  Fold in the egg whites thoroughly. Turn into t
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deviled Halibut
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Minced onion
      3 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1    Egg -- beaten
      2 c  Cooked flaked halibut
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
 
  Cook the onion in the butter for 5 minutes.  Sprinkle with the flour
  and gradually add the milk, stirring constantly until mixture reaches
  the boiling point.  Add the salt, mustard, Worcestershire sauce,
  lemon juice, egg and halibut.  Mix lightly and divide among 6
  buttered baking dishes. Sprinkle with the bread crumbs. Bake in a 350
  degreeoven 20 minutes. Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duck With Orange Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 lb Duck
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 tb Flour
      2 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Beef broth
      2 tb Currant jelly
      2    Oranges -- segmented
 
  Singe the duck to remove pin feathers; wash and dry. Season with the
  salt and pepper.  Place on a rack in a roasting pan.  Roast in 350
  degree oven 3 hours, or until tender andbrowned.    Measure 2
  tablespoons of the fat from the roasting pan and pour it
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Bread - {challah}
 Categories: Jewish, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (or cake) Yeast
      2 ts Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Lukewarm water
  4 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
      2 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Salad oil
      1    Egg yolk
      4 tb Poppy seeds
    1/8 ts Saffron -- (optional)
 
  Combine the yeast, sugar and 1/4 cup lukewarm water.  Let stand for 5
  minutes.    Sift the flour and salt into a bowl.  Make a well in the
  center and drop the eggs, oil, remaining water and the yeast mixture
  into it. Work into the flour.  Knead on a floured surface until
  smooth and elastic. Place in a bowl and brush the top with a little
  oil. Cover with a towel, set in a warm place and let rise 1 hour.
  Punch down, cover again and let rise until double in bulk.  Divide
  the dough into three equal parts. Between lightly floured hands roll
  the dough into three strips of even length. Braid them together and
  place in a baking pan.  Cover with a towel and let rise until double
  in bulk. loaf pan. Note: 1/8 teaspoon saffron can be dissolved in the
  water if you like additional flavor and color. Recipe Source: THE ART
  OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books,
  Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterC
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Roll
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 5 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------PANCAKES-------------------------------
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
      1 tb Oil

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 c  Sliced celery
    1/2 c  Sliced onions
    1/4 c  Sliced scallions
      1 c  Chinese or green cabbage
      2 tb Oil
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Flaked tuna or julienne
           Chicken
 
  Pancakes:  Beat the eggs, water and salt together.  Beat in the
  flour. Heat a 7-inch skillet with a little oil and pour a little of
  the batter into it to make a thin pancake. Cook until browned on the
  bottom.  Remove, browned side up, and stack while pre
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Steak A La Meyer
 Categories: Jewish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Eggplant
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Egg yolks -- beaten
      1 c  Grated American cheese
           Eggs -- fried as needed
 
  Peel the eggplant and cut lengthwise in 1-inch slices. Soak in cold
  salted water for 1 hour.  Drain and dry.    Place the eggplant slices
  side by side in a buttered baking pan.Sprinkle with the salt and
  pepper and brush with the egg yolks.  Sprinkle with
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Essig Flaish
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lb Chuck, brisket or flank
      6    Onions -- diced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Boiling water
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      3 tb Brown sugar
      4    Gingersnaps -- crushed
 
  Heat a heavy saucepan or Dutch oven and brown the meat in it over
  medium heat.  If the meat is very lean add a little fat for browning.
  Turn frequently.  Add the onions and brown lightly.  Add the salt and
  water. Cover and cook over low heat 2 hours. Stir in the lemon juice,
  brown sugar and gingersnaps. Cook 10 minutes. Taste to correct
  seasoning. Serves 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe fo
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Farfel
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
 
  Combine the flour and salt.  Work in the eggs until a stiff dough is
  formed.  Roll between the hands into narrow strips.  Let dry until
  stiff enough to grate, then grate or chop into pieces the size of
  barley. Spread out on a towel or board and let dry a
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Balls
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Salmon
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Oil -- for frying
 
  Grind or chop the fish very fine and add the salt and pepper.  Cream
  the butter and flour and work mixture into the fish.  Beat until very
  smooth and stir in the cream. Shape into 1-inch balls.    Heat the
  oil in a skillet and fry the balls until browned on all sides. Serve
  with a Hollandaise sauce.  Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
   Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-08-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      1 c  Sliced onions
      4 c  Thinly sliced potatoes
      3 c  Cooked or canned flaked
           Fish
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Light cream
 
  Melt the butter in a skillet.  Brown the onions in it.    Arrange
  alternate layers of the potatoes, fish and onions in a buttered
  baking dish, starting and ending with the potatoes.  As you arrange
  the layers, sprinkle the potatoes with 1 teaspoon salt and the
  pepper. Beat the eggs, cream and remaining salt together and pour
  over the contents of baking dish. Bake in a 350 degree oven 45
  minutes or until firm. Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish With Sour-Cream Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      1 c  Chopped onions
      4 sl Pike or whitefish
      1 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  Melt the butter in a skillet.  Brown the onions, then arrange the
  fish over them.  Sprinkle with the paprika, salt and pepper. Add the
  water. Cook over low heat 45 minutes. Stir the sour cream into the
  sauce. Taste to correct seasoning and serve hot.  Serves 4. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flaishig Noodle Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Diced onions
    1/2 c  Chicken fat
      3    Eggs
      6 c  Cooked fine noodles --
           Drained
 
  Brown the onions in the fat.  Cool for 15 minutes.  Beat the eggs
  very well and stir in the noodles, browned onions and fat.  If you
  have any 'grebenes' (the recipe for "Rendered Fat And Grebenes" is
  included in this database), add them.  Turn into a grea
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flanken Soup  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Plate flank
           Beef bones
  3 1/2 qt Water
      1    Onion
      1 tb Salt
           Soup greens
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Peppercorns
 
  Combine the beef, bones and water in a deep saucepan. Bring to a boil
  and skim.  Add the onion, salt, soup greens, bay leaf and
  peppercorns. Cover loosely and cook over low heat 2 hours, or until
  meat is tender. Remove beef and strain the soup.    Makes about 2 1/2
  quarts soup. Serve the beef with horseradish.  Serves 8 to 10. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH CO
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fluffy Knaidlach  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Egg yolks
      1 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Matzo meal
      3    Egg whites
 
  Beat the egg yolks and salt together.  Stir in the matzo meal and
  chill 1 hour.  Beat the egg whites until stiff but not dry and fold
  into the matzo-meal mixture.  Form into 18balls.  Cook in boiling
  soup or salted water for 20 minutes. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958
  Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on
  03-10-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fluffy Walnut Cake  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Passover, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Matzo meal
    3/4 c  Potato starch
    1/2 ts Salt
      6    Egg yolks
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Orange juice
  1 1/2 c  Ground walnuts
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
      6    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Mix the matzo meal, potato starch and salt together.    Beat the egg
  yolks until thick; gradually add the sugar, beating until lemon
  colored.  Add the matzo-meal mixture alternately with the orange
  juice.  Fold in the walnuts and lemon rind, and then the cake shrinks
  away from the sides of the pan. Cool on a cake rack. Serves 6 to 8.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-29-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frankfurter Hash
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Potatoes, Tomatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Frankfurters
      4    Boiled potatoes -- peeled
           And diced
      3    Onions -- sliced
      2 tb Fat
      3    Green peppers -- sliced
      3    Tomatoes -- diced
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Cut the frankfurters into 1-inch slices.    Lightly brown the
  potatoes and onion in the fat.  Add the green peppers and
  frankfurters. Cook over low heat 5 minutes.  Add the tomatoes, salt
  and pepper. Cover and cook 10 minutes.  Serves 6.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-18-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fricassee Of Giblets
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Mixed giblets -- * see note
      4 tb Chicken fat
      1 c  Diced onions
      2 tb Flour
      4 c  Boiling water
      3 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    3/4 lb Ground beef
      2 tb Cold water
    3/4 c  Raw rice
 
  * Note:  Buy necks, gizzards, livers, wings and feet. Wash them
  thoroughly and remove the heavy skin from the feet.    Heat the
  chicken fat in a saucepan and brown the onions init.  Add the giblets
  and let them brown for 5 minutes. Sprinkle with the flour
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Chicken With Hot Cranberry Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Broiler chickens (1 1/2 lb
           Each)
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Water
           Fat -- for deep frying
      1 c  Canned whole cranberries
    1/2 c  Applesauce
 
  Have the broilers cut up.  Season with 2 teaspoons salt, the pepper,
  and sprinkle with 3 tablespoons flour.    Sift the remaining flour,
  salt and the baking powder into a bowl. Beat in the egg and water.
  Dip the chicken pieces in this batter, coating them well. Heat the
  fat to 370 degrees and fry a few pieces at a time in it. Drain and
  place in a baking pan. Cover and bake in a 350 degree oven for 30
  minutes, remo for the last 10 minutes. Combine the cranberries and
  applesauce and heat. Serve with the fried chicken.  Serves 6 to 8.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by JennieGrossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Herring
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Salt herring fillets
    1/3 c  Dry bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Flour
      1    Egg
      2 tb Light cream
      4 tb Unsalted butter
 
  Soak the herring in water to cover overnight.  Change the water once.
  Drain.    Mix the bread crumbs and flour on a piece of waxed paper.
  Beat the egg and cream together in a shallow bowl.  Dip the herring
  in the bread-crumb mixture, the egg mixture and then again in the
  bread-crumb mixture.    Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a skillet. Brown
  the herring on both sides, adding butter as needed. Serves 4 to 6.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44Aon 03-08-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Soup Noodles
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Egg
           Fat -- for frying
 
  Make a well in the center of the flour and drop the salt and egg into
  it. Work in the flour and knead until smooth and elastic.  Cover with
  a bowl for 20 minutes, then roll out as thin as possible on a lightly
  floured surface. Stretch the dough gently un
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Pies  - Crust
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Flour -- sifted
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Shortening
      6 tb Ice water
           Egg yolks, beaten -- for
           Brushing
 
  Sift the flour and salt into a bowl.  Add the shortening with a pastry
  blender or 2 knives until the consistency of coarse sand.  Sprinkle
  the ice water over the mixture and toss until balls of dough are
  formed.  Form into a ball and chill 1/2 hour.  Divi
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Pies -  Apple Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Peeled, sliced apples
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Mix together all the ingredients.  Fill the pie.  Cover with top
  crust. Bake in a 400 degree oven 45 minutes or until browned.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe fo
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Pies -  Berry Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Blueberries, raspberries
           Or blackberries
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
 
  Mix together all the ingredients.  Fill the pie.  Cover with top
  crust. Bake in a 400 degree oven 45 minutes or until browned.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe fo
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Pies -  Cherry Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 cn (#2)  Sour red cherries --
           Drained
      1 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Almond extract
 
  Mix together all the ingredients.  Fill the pie.  Cover with top
  crust. Bake in a 400 degree oven 45 minutes or until browned.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe fo
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Pies -  Rhubarb Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Rhubarb -- sliced 1" long
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Flour
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter -- (optional)
 
  Mix the rhubarb, sugar, flour and salt together and fill the pie
  plate. Dot with butter if you want to use it. Cover with top crust.
    Bake in a 400 degree oven 45 minutes oruntil browned.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossing
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gedempte Flaish
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
        lb Chuck or brisket
      2 tb Fat
      3    Onions -- diced
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1    Bay leaf
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 tb Browned flour -- * see note
 
  * Note:  Spread one cup of sifted flour in a shallow pan; cook over
  low heat, stirring almost constantly.  Cool and store in a covered
  jar.  Use for thickening gravies -- it gives a much nicer color than
  plain flour. Place the meat and fat in a heavy s Cover and brown over
  medium heat until browned on all sides.  Add the onions and continue
  browning. Add the salt, pepper, paprika, garlic powder, bay leaf and
  water.  Cover and cook over low heat 2 hours or until meat is tender.
    Mix the flour with a little water and stir into the gravy.  Cook 10
  minutes.  Remove bay leaf.  Serves 8.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JE
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gedempte Flaish With Apricots
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Dried apricots
      4 c  Water
      2    Onions -- minced
      3 lb Center-cut chuck
      2 tb Fat
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Wash the apricots and soak in the water for 1 hour.    Brown the
  onions and meat in the fat.  Add the salt, bay leaf, lemon juice,
  sugar, cinnamon and undrained apricots. Coverand cook over low heat 2
  1/2 hours or until meat is tender.  Remove bay leaf.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gedempte Veal
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Veal
      4    Onions -- thinly sliced
      3 tb Fat
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 ts Paprika
    3/4 c  Water
 
  Cut the veal in 1-inch cubes.  Brown the veal and onions in the fat.
  Add the salt, pepper, paprika and water.  Cover and cook over low
  heat 1 hour or until the veal is tender. Stir frequently. Serve with
  boiled potatoes or "Farfel" (recipe included in this database).
  Serves 6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Goose Fricassee
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     10 lb Goose
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Rendered goose fat -- * see
           Note
      1 c  Diced onions
      2 c  Boiling water
      1 sm Bay leaf
 
  * Note:  See recipe for "Rendered Fat And Grebenes" (included in this
  database).    Buy a young goose and have it disjointed.  Remove all
  the skin.  (You can render it with the fat.)  Mix the flour, salt,
  pepper, paprika and garlic powder together.  Lightly roll the pieces
  of goose in the mixture.  Brown the goose and onions in 3 tablespoons
  of the fat.  Add the water and bay leaf.  Cover and c
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Goose With Cabbage
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     10 lb Goose
      3 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 c  Sliced onions
      6 lb Cabbage -- shredded
      1    Tart apple -- grated
 
  Have the goose cut up and season it with 2 teaspoons salt and 1/4
  teaspoon pepper.  Place on a rack in roasting pan and roast in a 350
  degree oven 2 hours or until almost tender.    Measure 6 tablespoons
  of the fat from the roasting pan into a heavy casserole or Dutch oven
  and cook onions and cabbage in it over and cook over low heat 1 hour.
  Serves 8 to 10. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
      (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A on 03-15-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grated-Potato Tzimmes
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Unsweetened prunes
      3 c  Water
      8    Potatoes -- peeled
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Potato flour
      2 tb Melted fat
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Wash the prunes and soak in the water 1 hour.  Bring to a boil. Slice
  5 potatoes into a 2-quart casserole and pour the undrained prunes
  over them. Add the brown sugar, lemon juice and 1 teaspoon salt.
  Cover and bake in a 350 degree oven 1 hour.    Grate the remaining
  potatoes and add the potato flour, fat,
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Noodle Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Vegetables, Puddings
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Egg yolks
      4 tb Chopped scallions
  1 1/2 c  Cooked chopped spinach
    1/2 lb Fine noodles -- cooked and
           Drained
      1 ts Salt
      4    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Beat the egg yolks, then stir in the scallions, spinach, noodles and
  salt.
   Fold in the egg whites.  Pour into a 1 1/2-quart greased baking
  dish. Bake in a 350 degree oven 30 minutes.  Serve hot with meat or
  dairy dishes. Serves 4 to 6.    Recipe Sour
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled American Cheese And Tomato Sandwich
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers, Sandwich, Cheese/eggs, Tomatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 sl White bread
           Butter
           Prepared mustard
      8 sl American cheese
      8 sl Tomato
 
  For each sandwich, butter 2 slices of white bread. Spread the
  unbuttered sides with prepared mustard and place 2 slices of American
  cheese and two slices of tomato between the bread, buttered sides
  out. Brown in a skillet on both sides or grill until cheese melts.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by: Joe C
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamentaschen  - Honey Dough
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      4 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Shortening -- softened
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Honey
      1    Filling recipe -- * see
           Note
 
  * Note:  The recipes for "Hamentaschen -  Prune Filling" and
  "Hamentaschen -  Poppy Seed Filling" are included in this database.
    Sift the flour, salt and baking powder in a bowl.  Make a well in
  the center and place the shortening, eggs and honey into it.  Work
  together with the hand until a dough is formed.  Roll out and cut
  into 4-inch squares. Place a heaping tablespoon of filling on each
  and fold over into a triangle, sealing the edg
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamentaschen  - Yeast Dough
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 42 servings
 
      2 pk (or cakes) Yeast
    1/4 c  Lukewarm water
    3/4 c  Scalded milk -- cooled
      5 c  Flour -- sifted
    3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Melted butter
      1    Filling recipe -- * see
           Note
           Beaten egg yolk -- for
           Brushing
 
  * Note:  The recipes for "Hamentaschen -  Prune Filling" and
  "Hamentaschen -  Poppy Seed Filling" are included in this database.
    Soften the yeast in the water for 5 minutes, then add to the milk.
  Stir in 2 cups of the flour, the sugar and salt. Add on the butter
  and remaining flour. Knead for a few minutes, then place in a bowl;
  cover with a towel and let rise in a warm place until doubled in
  bulk. Punch down and knead on a lightly floured board for 5 minutes.
  Divide the dough in half and roll out to 1/4-inch thickness.  Cut
  into 4-inch squares.  Place a heaping tablespoon of filling on each
  and fold dough over into a triangle, sealing the edges. Let rise
  until doubled in
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamentaschen -  Poppy Seed Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Poppy seeds
      1 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Honey
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
 
  Have the poppy seeds ground or put through your food chopper.
  Combine with the milk and honey.  Cook over low heat, stirring
  frequently, until thick. Stir in the lemon rind and raisins.  Cool
  and fill the dough. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKI
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamentaschen -  Prune Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Lackwa (prune butter)
    1/2 c  Ground almonds
      1 tb Grated orange rind
 
  Mix the ingredients together and fill the dough.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.
      (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A on 03-27-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herring Forshmak
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Salt herring fillets
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Onions -- diced
      4 sl White bread
      1    Apple -- peeled and diced
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Bread crumbs
 
  Soak the herring in water to cover overnight.  Change the water twice.
  Drain.    Melt the butter in a skillet.  Brown the onions in it.
  Coarsely chop the herring, bread, apple, sour cream and browned
  onions. Turn into a buttered bakingdish and sprinkle with the crumbs.
  Bake in a 425 degree oven 25 minutes. 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44Aon 03-08-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Home-Style Hamburgers
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      4 tb Grated onion
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Grated potato -- drained
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Water
      3 tb Fat
      2    Onions -- sliced
 
  Mix the beef, grated onion, garlic, salt, pepper, potato, egg and
  water together.  Form into 8 hamburgers.    Melt the fat in a skillet
  and brown the hamburgers and sliced onion for 15 minutes, turning the
  hamburgers after 10 minutes. Serves 4 to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:Joe Comiskey JPMD44A
  on 03-16-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homemade Noodles
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2    Eggs
      1 tb Water
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Place unsifted flour on a board and make a well in the center.  Drop
  eggs, water and salt into it.  Work into the flour with one hand and
  knead until smooth and elastic. Roll and stretch the dough as thin as
  possible.  The thinner it is, the better the noodles. Let the rolled
  dough stand until it feels dry to the touch, but don't let it get too
  dry. You can cut the dough into squares, strips or very narrow
  noodles.  For narrow ones, roll up like a jelly roll and slice as
  thin as balance in tightly closed jars. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCookII by: Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A  on 03-19-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homemade Sauerkraut
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 lb Cabbage
      4 tb Salt
      3    Green apples
 
  A wooden keg is best for sauerkraut, but if you don't have one, use a
  crock or sterile glass jar.    Shred the cabbage finely (reserving
  some large leaves) and mix with the salt.  Peel and shred the apples.
  Arrange layers of the cabbage and apples, press
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honeyed Carrots
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter or fat
      4 c  Sliced carrots
      3 tb Orange juice
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ginger
      4 tb Honey
 
  Combine all the ingredients in a saucepan.  Cover and cook over low
  heat 25 minutes, stirring occasionally. Serves 6.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.
   (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honeyed Nahit
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Chickpeas
      2 ts Salt
      2 tb Melted fat or butter
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Honey
 
  Wash the chickpeas and soak overnight in water to cover. Drain.
  Cover with fresh water; bring to a boil and cook over medium heat 1
  1/2 hours. Drain Mix the chickpeas, salt, fat or butter, 1/2 cup
  water and the honey in a baking dish.    Bake in a 350 degree oven 30
  minutes. Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Sauerkraut
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Fat or butter
    3/4 c  Diced onions
  1 1/2 lb Sauerkraut -- drained
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Melt the fat in a saucepan and brown the onions lightly. Add the
  sauerkraut, pepper, paprika, sugar and water.  Cover loosely and cook
  over low heat 1 hour.  Serves 4 to 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A
  on 03-21-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jennie's Herring Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Salt herring fillets
      4    Scallions
      6    Radishes
      2    Tomatoes
      2    Green peppers
      1 c  Shredded lettuce
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      3 tb Salad oil
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Cut the herring into half-inch pieces.  Slice the scallions and
  radishes, cut the tomatoes into quarters or eighths and dice the
  peppers.  Toss these ingredients together with the lettuce, vinegar,
  oil, sugar, paprika and pepper.  Chill and serve as an ap
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kasha Varnitchkes
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Minced onions
    1/3 c  Chicken fat
      2 c  Cooked kasha -- * see note
      3 c  Cooked broad noodles --
           Drained
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  * Note:  The recipe for "Kasha" is included in this database.
    Brown the onions in the fat.  Combine with the kasha, noodles, salt
  and pepper.  If you have any 'grebenes' (therecipe for "Rendered Fat
  And Grebenes" is included in this database), add some
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kishke
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Feet Beef casing
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 c  Matzo or cracker meal
    1/4 c  Grated onion
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
      1 c  Chicken fat
      2    Onions -- sliced
 
  Wash the casing in cold water and scrape the inside.  Cut casing in
  half and sew one end of each half.    Blend well the flour, meal,
  grated onion, salt, pepper, paprika and 3/4 cup of the fat.  Stuff
  the casings and sew the open ends.  Cook in boiling salted water 1
  hour. Drain. Spread the remaining fat and the sliced onions in a
  baking dish.  Arrange the kishke over it.  Roast in a 350 degree oven
  1 1/2 hours, basting frequently. Or, if you prefer, you can roast it
  in the same pan with meat or poultry with which it will be serv
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Knaidlach  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggs
      4 tb Chicken fat -- melted
    1/3 c  Cold water
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Matzo meal
 
  Beat the eggs, fat, water and salt together.  Stir in the matzo meal,
  adding just enough to make a stiff batter. Chill one hour. Form into
  balls and cook for 30 minutes in boiling soup or salted water. Makes
  about 18. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Book
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Knishes  - Dough
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
    2/3 c  Salad oil
      2    Tablspoons
           Water
 
  Sift the flour, baking powder and salt into a bowl.  Make a well in
  the center and drop the eggs, oil and water into it.  Work into the
  flour mixture with the hand and knead until smooth.    There are two
  ways to fill the knishes.  In either case, divide the dough in two
  and roll as thin as possible.  Brush with oil. Now you can spread the
  filling (the recipes for four fillings are included in this database)
  on one side of the dough and roll it up like a jelly roll. Cut into 1
  1/2-inch slices. Place on an oiled baking sheet cut side down. Press
  down lightly to flatten. Or you can cut the rolled dough in 3-inch
  circles.  Place a tablespoon of the filling on each; draw the edges
  together and pinch firmly. Place on an oiled baking sheet, pinched
  edges up.    In either case, bake in a 375 degree oven 35 minutes or
  until browned.  Makes about 24.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c)
  1958   Recipe
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Knishes -  Cheese Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Diced scallions or onions
      4 tb Butter
      2 c  Pot cheese
      1    Egg
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Sour cream
 
  Scallions are better than onions for this, so try to get them.  Brown
  the scallions in the butter and beat in the cheese, egg, salt, pepper
  and sour cream until smooth. Place on dough.    Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Pub
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Knishes -  Chicken Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Ground cooked chicken
    3/4 c  Mashed potatoes
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Mix all the ingredients until smooth.  Place on dough.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook
  II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-22-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Knishes -  Meat Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Minced onions
      2 tb Chicken fat
  1 1/2 c  Ground cooked meat
    1/2 c  Cooked rice
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Lightly brown the onions in the fat.  Add the meat, rice, egg, salt
  and pepper, mixing until smooth.  Place on dough.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
   Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-22-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Knishes -  Potato Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped onions
      6 tb Chicken fat or butter
      2 c  Mashed potatoes
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Brown the onions in the fat or butter.  Beat in the potatoes, egg,
  salt and pepper until fluffy.  Place on dough.    Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.
   (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for Mast
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kraut Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 c  Finely shredded cabbage
      2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Butter or fat
    1/2 c  Boiling water
  1 1/2 c  Cubed white bread
    1/3 c  Potato flour
    1/4 c  Seedless white raisins
    3/4 c  Blanched almonds -- sliced
      2 tb Sugar
      4    Eggs
 
  Cook the cabbage and salt in the butter or fat over low heat for 30
  minutes, stirring frequently.  Cool.    Pour the water over the bread
  and squeeze dry.  Mash. Add the potatoflour, raisins, almonds and
  sugar. Separate the eggs and add the yolks and cab the mixture. Turn
  into a greased 2-quart casserole.  Bake in a 350 degree oven for 40
  minutes, or until set.  Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958
  Recipe formatted
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kreplach  - Dough
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2    Eggs
      1 tb Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Filling recipe -- * see
           Note
 
  * Note:  Five Kreplach Filling recipes are included in this database.
  Place unsifted flour on a board and make a well in the center.  Drop
  eggs, water and salt into it.  Workinto the flour with one hand and
  knead until smooth and elastic. Roll and stre it is, the better. Cut
  into 3-inch squares and place a tablespoon of one the filling
  mixtures on each. Fold over the dough into a triangle.  Press edges
  together with a little water. Cook in boiling salted water or soup 20
  minutes, or until they rise to the top. Drain, if cooked in water.
  They can be fried or served immediatel
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kreplach -  Cheese-Potato Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Cheese/eggs, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Minced onions
      3 tb Butter
  1 1/2 c  Mashed potatoes
    1/2 c  Pot cheese
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Egg
           Sour cream
 
  Lightly brown the onions in the butter.  Add the potatoes, cheese,
  salt, pepper and egg, beating until smooth.  Place in squares of
  dough.    Serve kreplach with sour cream.   Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Ba
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kreplach -  Chicken Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Ground cooked chicken
      4 tb Browned minced onion
      1    Egg yolk
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
      1 tb Minced parsley
 
  Blend all ingredients together.  Place in squares of dough.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook
  II by:
   Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-19-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kreplach -  Chicken Liver Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Chicken livers
    1/2 c  Minced onions
      2 tb Chicken fat
      2    Hard-boiled egg yolks
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Cook the livers and onions in the fat for 10 minutes, mixing
  frequently. Grind or chop the livers, onions, eggs, salt and pepper.
  Cool before placing in squares of dough.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Ba
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kreplach -  Kasha Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Minced onions
      3 tb Chicken fat or butter -- *
           See note
  1 1/2 c  Cooked kasha -- ** see note
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  * Note:  Your choice depending on whether you serve with meat or dairy
  dish.   ** Note:  The recipe for "Kasha" is included in this database.
  Lightly brown the onion in the fat or butter.  Stir in the kasha and
  pepper.  Place in squares of dough.    Re
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kreplach -  Meat Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Fat
    1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Minced onions
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Heat the fat in a skillet and cook the meat and onions in it for 10
  minutes, stirring frequently.  Add the salt and pepper.  Cool before
  placing in squares of dough.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Stew
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Boneless lamb
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Fat
      1 c  Diced onions
      1 c  Canned tomato sauce
      1 c  Boiling water
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Sliced green peppers
      3    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Sliced
      1 pk Frozen mixed vegetables
 
  Cut the lamb into 2-inch cubes.  Mix together the flour, salt, pepper,
  paprika and garlic powder.  Lightly roll the lamb in this mixture,
  then brown in the fat with the onions. Add the tomato sauce, water,
  bay leaf and green peppers. Cover and cook over low heat 1 1/2 hours.
  Add the potatoes and vegetables.  Cook 20 minutes. Remove bay leaf.
  Serves 6to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Publ
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Layer Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Egg yolks
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cake flour -- sifted
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Vanilla
      6    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Beat the egg yolks; gradually add the sugar, beating until thick and
  light in color.  Sift flour, salt and baking powder into egg-yolk
  mixture and fold in.  Stir in the vanilla and fold in the egg whites.
  Turn into two 8-inch layer-cake pans that have been greased and
  dusted with flour. Bake in a 350 degree oven 20 minutes, or until
  browned and free from sides of
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil And Rice Stew
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Vegetables, Rice, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Chuck
      3    Onions -- diced
      2 tb Fat
      1 c  Lentils
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      4 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Uncooked rice
 
  Cut the beef in 2-inch cubes and brown with the onions in the fat.
  Soak lentils in cold water for 2 hours.  Drain. Add the lentils,
  salt, pepper and boiling water.  Cover and cook over low heat 1 1/2
  hours.
   Stir in the rice; recover and cook additional 25 minutes.  Serves 6
  to 8.
     Recipe Source: THE ART OF J
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Soup  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Lentils
  2 1/2 qt Water
      2    Onions -- diced
      2 tb Fat
      2    Carrots -- diced
      1 tb Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      4    Frankfurters -- sliced
 
  Wash and drain the lentils.  Combine with water; bring to a boil and
  cook over medium heat 1 hour.    Brown the onions in the fat and add
  to the lentils with the carrots, salt, pepper and bay leaf.  Cook
  over low heat 2 hours.  Discard the bay leaf and rub mixture through
  a food mill. Return to the saucepan.  A
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lettuce With Sour-Cream Dressing
 Categories: Jewish, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6    Scallions -- sliced
      1    Lettuce head
 
  Mix together the sour cream, vinegar, salt, pepper and scallions.
    Tear (don't cut) the lettuce into small pieces and pour the
  dressing over it. Toss.  Serves 4.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Boo
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Liver Balls
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 tb Minced onion
      2 ts Chicken fat -- melted
    1/2 lb Chicken livers
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Potato flour
      1    Egg yolk
      1    Egg white -- stiffly beaten
 
  Brown the onion in the fat.  Chop or grind the raw livers with the
  onion. Stir in the salt, pepper, potato flour and egg yolk. Fold in
  the egg white. Drop by the teaspoon into boiling soup or salted
  water. Cook 15 minutes or until they rise to the surface.  Serves 8
  to 10. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-10-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroons  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Passover
      Yield: 72 servings
 
      6    Egg whites
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Passover almond paste
    1/4 c  Matzo meal
 
  Beat the egg whites until peaks begin to form; beat in the sugar and
  fold in the almond paste and matzo meal.  Drop by the teaspoon onto a
  greased baking pan and flatten slightly with a wet knife. Bake in a
  350 degree oven 20 minutes or until delicately browned. Makes about 6
  dozen. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
    by Jennie Grossinger Published by Ban
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandlen
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 tb Salad oil
 
  Sift the flour, salt and baking powder into a bowl.  Beat the eggs
  and oil together and blend into the flour, kneading until smooth.
  Roll pieces of dough into 1/4-inch-thick strips.  Cut in 1/2-inch
  pieces. Arrange on a greased baking sheet.    Bake in a 375 degree
  oven 15 minutes. Shake the pan occasionally.  Cool any left over and
  store in a closed jar. Serve to your taste, according to your
  preference for thick or thin soup. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A  on 03-10-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandlen  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Cake meal
      2 tb Potato flour
           Fat -- for deep frying
 
  Beat the eggs and salt together.  Stir in the cake meal and potato
  flour.
    Heat the fat to 380 degrees.  Drop the mixture by the teaspoon into
  the fat.  Fry until browned.  Drain and serve hot.  If you want to
  prepare them ahead of time, crisp them in a
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Salmon
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 sl Salmon
      3    Onions -- sliced
      3 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  White vinegar
      1 ts Pickling spice
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Peppercorns -- whole
 
  Combine the salmon, onions, water and salt in a deep skillet.  Bring
  to a boil and cook over low heat 25 minutes. Carefully transfer
  salmon to a bowl or platter.    Add the lemon juice, vinegar,
  pickling spice, bay leaf and peppercorns to the fish stock. Bring to
  a boil and cook 2 minutes. Pour over fish and chill 24 hours before
  serving.  Serves 6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.   (c) 1958
   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marrow Balls  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Marrow bone
      1    Egg
      2 ts Grated onion
      1 tb Minced parsley
      1 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Matzo meal
 
  Have the butcher crack the bone.  Carefully remove the marrow (there
  should be 2 to 3 tablespoons).  Cream the marrow, then add the egg.
  Beat until mixture thickens. Stir in onion, parsley and salt.  Add
  the matzo meal, a tablespoon at a time until mixtu
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Brie
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Grated onion -- (optional)
      2    Matzos
           Butter or fat -- for frying
 
  Beat the eggs, salt and onion together.  Hold the matzos under running
  water, drain.  Then crumble them into the eggs.  Mix well.    Heat the
  butter or fat in a 9-inch skillet and turn the matzo mixture into it.
  Fry until lightly browned on both sides.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Fry
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Matzos -- whole
      3    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb Butter or fat
 
  Hold the matzos under cold running water until softened. Place in a
  shallow dish.  Beat the eggs and salt together and pour over the
  matzos. Let soak 10 minutes, then fry in the butter or fat until
  browned on both sides. Serves 2 to 4.    Recipe Source:
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Pancakes
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3    Matzos
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Melted butter or fat
    1/3 c  Matzo meal
           Butter or fat -- for frying
 
  Soak the matzos in cold water until soft.  Drain well and crush into a
  paste.    Beat the eggs and salt together.  Stir in the butter or
  fat, the soaked matzo and matzo meal.  Drop by the tablespoon into
  hot butter or fat and fry until browned on both sides.  Serve with
  sour cream or stewed fruit, if prepared wi
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo Rolls  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Muffins, Passover
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Chicken broth or milk
      1 c  Matzo meal
    1/3 c  Cake meal
      4 tb Melted chicken fat or
           Butter
 
  Beat together the eggs and salt.  Stir in the broth (or milk)
  alternately with the matzo meal and cake meal.  Add the melted fat or
  butter.  Fill 12 greased muffin cups 2/3 full.    Bake in a 350
  degree oven 30 minutes or until browned.    Recipe Source:
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo-Farfel Charlotte  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Passover
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Matzo farfel
      3    Egg yolks
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Sweet red wine
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Grated orange rind
      2 tb Salad oil
      3    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Soak the farfel in cold water for a few minutes, then drain and crush
  to a paste.  Beat the egg yolks and sugar together until thick.  Stir
  in the wine, salt, orange rind, oil and farfel.  Fold in the egg
  whites.  Turn into a greased 1 1/2-quart baking di
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Matzo-Meal Pancakes  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl, Passover
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3    Egg yolks
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Cold water
    3/4 c  Matzo meal
      3    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
           Fat -- for deep frying
 
  Beat together the egg yolks, salt and water.  Stir in the matzo meal
  and fold in the egg whites.    Heat the fat to 375 degrees and drop
  the batter into it by the tablespoon.  Fry until browned on both
  sides. Drain. Serve with meat dishes or sprinkled with sugar and
  cinnamon.  Serves 2 to 4. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.   (c) 1958
   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 0
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mavim's Knaidlach  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Egg yolks
      1 ts Salt
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
      2 ts Grated onion
      2 tb Chicken fat -- melted
      4    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
    3/4 c  Matzo meal
 
  Beat together the egg yolks, salt, cayenne pepper, onion and fat until
  creamy; fold into the egg whites.  Gradually fold the matzo meal into
  the egg mixture.  Chill 1 hour. Moisten hands and shape the mixture
  into 1/2-inch balls. Cook in a covered saucepa
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meat Borsch  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 qt Water
      2 lb Brisket
           Beef bones
      8    Beets -- grated
      2    Onions -- diced
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      1 tb Salt
      3 tb Brown sugar
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      2    Eggs -- beaten
 
  Combine the water, meat and bones in a deep saucepan. Bring to a boil
  and skim.  Add the beets, onions, garlic and salt. Cover and cook
  over medium heat 2 hours.  Add the brown sugar and lemon juice. Cook
  30 minutes. Taste to correct seasoning if necessary.
   Beat eggs in a bowl.  Gradually add a little hot soup, beat steadily
  to prevent curdling.  Return to sauce
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meat Split Pea Soup  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 qt Water
      2 c  Split peas -- washed and
           Drained
      2 lb Plate flank
           Beef bones
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Carrots -- grated
      2    Onions -- diced
 
  Combine the water and peas in a saucepan.  Bring to a boil and cook
  over low heat 1 hour.  Add the flank, bones, salt, pepper, carrots
  and onions. Cover and cook over low heat2 hours or until meat is
  tender.  Remove meat and bones.    Rub the soup throug of meat as
  garnish. Makes about 2 quarts of soup.  Serves 8 to 10. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-09-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mocha Torte
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      4    Egg yolks
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      4 tb Ice water
      1 tb Coffee essence
      1 ts Vanilla
      4    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 c  Whipped cream
      2 tb Confectioners' sugar
      1 tb Coffee essence
 
  Sift the flour, salt and baking powder 3 times.  Beat the egg yolks;
  gradually add the sugar, beating until thick and light in color.
  Combine water, coffee essence and vanilla. Add to yolk mixture
  alternately with the flour mixture. Fold in the egg whites.  Turn
  into two 8-inch layer-cake pans that have been gr
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mock Scallops
 Categories: Jewish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Halibut, 1/2" thick
    3/4 c  Flour -- sifted
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 c  Milk
      6 tb Butter
 
  Cut the halibut in 1/2-inch cubes to resemble bay scallops.    Mix
  together the flour, salt, pepper and paprika.  Dip the cubes in the
  milk and then in the seasoned flour.    Cook the scallops in the
  butter over low heat, until browned on all sides.  Serv
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mock Seafood Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Seafood, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      3 tb Cider vinegar
      2 tb Anchovy paste
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 tb Minced scallions
      2 tb Minced parsley
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
      1    Lettuce head -- shredded
      4    Endive -- sliced
      1 cn Tuna fish -- drained and
           Flaked
           Sliced tomatoes
 
  Mix together the mayonnaise, sour cream, vinegar, anchovy paste, salt,
  Worcestershire sauce, pepper, scallions, parsley and garlic. Add the
  lettuce, endive and tuna fish. Toss and serve cold with sliced
  tomatoes. Serves 4.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam B Recipe By
  : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom-Barley Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6    Dried mushrooms
      3 tb Pearl barley
      2 qt Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Onions -- diced
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
    3/4 c  Milk
 
  Wash the mushrooms and soak in cold water 10 minutes. Slice fine.
  Combine the mushrooms, barley, water, salt and pepper in a saucepan.
  Cook over low heat 1 hour.  Brown theonions in the butter and add to
  the soup. Cook 30 minutes.    Mix the flour in the milk and add to
  the soup. Cook 15 minutes. Serves 8.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe for
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushrooms In Sour Cream
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    3/4 c  Diced mushrooms
      4 tb Butter
  1 1/2 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  Cook the onions in half the butter for 10 minutes. Remove onions and
  reserve.  Add the remaining butter and the mushrooms to the same pan
  and cook over low heat 10 minutes. Return onions to the pan and add
  the salt, pepper and paprika.  Cook 5 minutes. Stir in the sour
  cream. Serve on toast or in patty shells.  Serves 3 to 4.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.
   (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A on 03-18-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nahit And Rice
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Chickpeas
    1/2 c  Raw rice
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Honey
 
  Wash the chickpeas and soak overnight in water to cover. Drain.
  Cover with fresh water; bring to a boil and cook over low heat 2
  hours.  Drain.
    Stir the rice and salt into 2 cups boiling water.  Cover and cook
  over low heat 15 minutes.  Turn the undra Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A
  on 03-21-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodle Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      4 tb Brown sugar
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      4 c  Cooked broad noodles
    1/2 c  Seedless white raisins
    1/2 c  Blanched almonds -- sliced
      1 tb Lemon juice
      4 tb Melted butter or chicken
           Fat
      2 tb Bread crumbs
 
  Beat the eggs and brown sugar until fluffy.  Add the nutmeg, noodles,
  raisins, almonds, lemon juice and melted butter or fat.  Turn  into a
  well greased ring mold or baking dish.  Sprinkle with the bread
  crumbs.  Bake in a 375 degree oven 50 minutes or until browned. Serve
  with meat or poultry dishes or as a dessert with a sweet fruit sauce.
  Serves 6 to 8.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKINGby Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodle-Apple Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Fruit, Puddings
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Eggs
      4 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Grated apples
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
      4 c  Cooked fine noodles --
           Drained
      3 tb Melted butter or fat
 
  Beat the eggs, sugar, salt and cinnamon together.  Stir in the apples,
  raisins, noodles and butter or fat.  Turn into a greased baking dish.
  Bake in a 400 degree oven 40 minutes or until browned. Serves 6 to 8.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKI
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodle-Cheese Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Cheese/eggs, Puddings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      2 c  Cottage cheese
      5 c  Cooked fine noodles
      4 tb Dry bread crumbs
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  Beat the eggs, sour cream, salt and sugar together.  Stir in the
  cheese and noodles.  Turn into a buttered 2-quart baking dish or
  casserole. Sprinkle with the bread crumbs and butter.    Bake in a
  375 degree oven 40 minutes. Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodle-Stuffed Duck
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 lb Duck
      3 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    3/4 c  Diced onions
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- chopped
      4 tb Chicken fat
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      3 c  Cooked medium noodles
      2    Eggs -- beaten
 
  Singe the duck to remove pin feathers; wash and dry. Sprinkle inside
  and out with 2 teaspoons salt, 1/2 teaspoon pepper, the paprika and
  garlic powder.  Grind or chop the liver, gizzard and heart.    Cook
  the onions and mushrooms in the fat for 5 minutes. opening or fasten
  with skewers. Place on a rack in a roasting pan. Roast in a 375
  degree oven 2 1/2 hours, or until the duck is tender and brown. Turn
  duck twice during the roasting time.  Serves 4.
     Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.      (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodles And Cheese
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 lb Noodles -- cooked and
           Drained
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Pot cheese
 
  Melt the butter in a skillet.  Stir in the noodles and cook over
  medium heat, stirring constantly until noodles brown.  Remove from
  heat and add the salt and pot cheese. Mix well.  Serves 3 to 4.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Gro
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodles With Honey And Poppy Seeds
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Light cream
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Poppy seeds
      4 c  Cooked medium noodles --
           Drained
 
  Cook the honey, cream, milk and poppy seeds for 5 minutes.  Stir in
  the noodles and serve immediately.  Serves 6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe
  Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-19-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Charlotte
 Categories: Jewish, Pie/tart, Vegetables, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Diced onions
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Milk
      3    Egg yolks
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 c  Light cream
    1/3 c  Bread crumbs
 
  Cook the onions, butter and milk over low heat for 10 minutes.  Drain
  and turn into a buttered 9-inch pie plate.    Beat the egg yolks,
  salt, pepper and cream together. Pour over the onions and sprinkle
  with the bread crumbs.    Bake in a 350 degree oven
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pareve Knaidlach  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Egg yolks
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
    1/2 c  Matzo meal
 
  Beat the egg yolks and salt until thick.  Fold into the egg whites,
  then gradually fold into the matzo meal.  Chill 1 hour.  Moisten
  hands; shape mixture into 1/2-inch balls. Cook in boiling salted
  water 20 minutes. Serve in dairy or meat soups.  Makes a
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paul's Brownies
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 25 servings
 
      1 c  Cake flour -- sifted
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa -- sifted
    1/4 lb Butter
  1 1/4 c  Brown sugar -- packed
      2    Eggs
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Pecans
 
  Sift the flour and cocoa together.  Cream the butter and gradually
  add the brown sugar.  Beat until light and fluffy. Add the eggs and
  salt, mixing well.  Add the cocoa mixture alternately with the milk.
  Stir in the vanilla and pecans. Pour into a greased 8-inch-square
  pan. Bake in a 350 degree oven 30 minutes or until a cake tester
  comes out clean. Cut into 1 1/2-i
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Petcha
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Calf's feet
      2    Onions
      4    Garlic cloves
      3 qt Water
      1 tb Salt
    3/4 ts Black pepper
      4    Hard-boiled eggs
 
  Have the feet chopped up.  Pour boiling water over them and scrape
  with a sharp knife.    Combine the feet, onions, 2 garlic cloves, the
  water, salt and pepper in a saucepan.  Bring to a boil and cook over
  low heat 3 1/2 hours.  Strain the soup.  Cut the with black pepper
  and chill. You may serve 12, but if you really like it there's only
  enough for 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
   by Jennie Grossinger Publishedby Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958
  Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Pike
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Onions -- sliced
      6 sl Pike
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 c  Water
    1/2 c  White vinegar
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Pickling spice
      2    Bay leaves
 
  Combine 2 sliced onions, the pike, salt, pepper and water in a
  saucepan. Bring to a boil and cook over low heat 25 minutes.
  Carefully remove the fish and place in a bowl or jar alternating in
  layers with the remaining 2 sliced onions.    Mix the vinegar, sugar,
  pickling spice and bay leaves with the fish sto
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Tomatoes
 Categories: Jewish, Tomatoes, Can/preserv, Pickles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     30    Green tomatoes
    1/2 c  Salt
      2 qt Water
      1 c  White vinegar
      4    Garlic cloves
      3    Bay leaves
    1/4 ts Peppercorns -- whole
      1 ts Pickling spice
     10    Sprigs Dill
 
  Buy even-sized, very firm tomatoes.  Wash and dry them. Arrange in a
  crock or glass jar.    Bring the salt and water to a boil.  Cool and
  add the vinegar, garlic, bay leaves, peppercorns and pickling spice.
  Pour over the tomatoes.  Arrange the dill on top.  Be sure the liquid
  covers the tomatoes; if not, add more salted water.  Cover with a
  plate or wooden board to weight it down if crock is used. Keep in a
  cool place for a week. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-23-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Tongue Or Corned Beef
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Can/preserv
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 lb Brisket or fresh tongue
  1 1/4 c  Salt
      2 tb Pickling spice
      1 ts Saltpeter
      1 ts Sugar
     12    Garlic cloves
      1 qt Water
 
  Place the meat in a large stone crock.  Mix the salt, pickling spice,
  saltpeter, sugar and garlic with 1 quart water and pour over the
  meat. Add enough water to completely cover the meat.  Use a heavy
  bowl or board to weight the meat down.  Cover the cro it in place,
  then cover the cheesecloth with aluminum foil.    Let stand in a cool
  place for 8 days, then store in refrigerator for 6 days.    To serve,
  cook in boiling water for 3 hours or until tender.  Serves 8 to 10.
     Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWIS
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Vegetable Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables, Salads, Can/preserv, Pickles
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    3/4 c  Finely diced green peppers
    3/4 c  Minced onions
      3 c  Coarsely grated beets
      3 c  Grated cabbage
      2 c  Cider vinegar
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Mustard seed
  1 1/2 tb Celery seed
 
  Combine all the ingredients in a saucepan.  Bring to a boil and cook
  over low heat 10 minutes, mixing occasionally. Turn into two 2-quart
  sterile jars and seal at once. Chill 36 hours before serving. Serves
  12 to 16. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958 Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Chiffon Pie
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Cornstarch
      2 c  Pineapple juice
      1 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 c  Crushed pineapple
      4    Egg whites
      1    Baked 9-inch pie shell -- *
           See note
 
  * Note:  The recipe for "Fruit Pies  - Crust" is included in this
  database. Mix the cornstarch with a little pineapple juice until
  smooth. Combine in a saucepan with the rest of the juice, 1/2 cup of
  the sugar and the salt. Cook over low heat, stirri and cool. Beat the
  egg whites until stiff but not dry; then beat in remaining sugar.
  Fold into the pineapple mixture and fill the pie shell. Chill. Serves
  6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted
  for MasterCook II by: J
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piroshki  - Dough
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Shortening
      1    Egg yolk
      4 tb Ice water
 
  Sift the flour and salt together.  Work in the shortening with the
  hand. Beat the yolk and water together and add to the previous
  mixture. Toss lightly and form into a ball.    Roll out the dough
  1/8-inch thick and cut into 3-inch circles.  Use a tablespoon of one
  of the fillings (the recipes for six fillings
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piroshki -  Cheese Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Pot cheese
    1/4 lb Cream cheese
      2 tb Sour cream
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar -- (optional)
 
  Beat all the ingreients together until smooth.  Use the sugar or not,
  depending on whether you like a sweet filling. Place filling on dough.
  Serve finished piroshki with sour cream. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A
  on 03-22-
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piroshki -  Fish Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Cooked flaked fish
      4 tb Grated onion
      2    Hard-boiled egg yolks
      4 tb Sour cream
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Mix all of the ingredients together.  Place filling on dough.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-22-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piroshki -  Liver Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Minced onions
    1/4 lb Mushrooms -- chopped
      6 tb Chicken fat
    1/2 lb Chicken livers
      2 tb Minced parsley
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Brown the onions and mushrooms in half the fat.  Remove onions and
  mushrooms and reserve.  Melt remaining fat in the same pan and cook
  the livers in it 10 minutes.  Chop together, until very smooth, the
  onions, mushrooms, liver, parsley, salt and pepper.  Cool. Place
  filling on dough. RecipeSource: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piroshki -  Mushroom Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
    3/4 c  Minced onions
      3 tb Butter
      2    Hard-boiled egg yolks
      3 tb Sour cream
      4 tb Bread crumbs
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
 
  Cook the mushrooms and the onions in the butter for 15 minutes.  Chop
  the mushroom mixture and egg yolks together. Stir in the sour cream,
  bread crumbs, salt and cayenne pepper.  Place filling on dough.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jen
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piroshki -  Potato Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Minced onions
      4 tb Chicken fat or butter
      2 c  Mashed potatoes
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Salt
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
 
  Lightly brown the onions in the fat or butter.  Stir in the potatoes,
  egg yolk, salt and cayenne pepper.  Cool 10 minutes.  Place filling
  on dough.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OFJEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c)
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piroshki -  Prune Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Honey
    3/4 c  Orange juice
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 lb Unsweetened pitted prunes
      1 tb Grated orange rind
 
  Cook the honey, orange juice and lemon juice for 5 minutes.  Add
  prunes and cook over low heat 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.
  Drain and chop the prunes.  Add the orange rind.  Cool before filling
  squares.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppy-Seed Crunch
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Egg yolks
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  1 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/8 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      2    Egg whites
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Ground poppy seeds
 
  Cream the butter, gradually adding the sugar.  Mix in the egg yolks
  and vanilla.  Sift together the flour, salt and baking powder and add
  to the butter mixture.  Pat into an 8-inch-square buttered pan. (The
  mixture won't hold together when you're handling it, but it will when
  baked.) Beat the egg whites unti
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pot-Roasted Chicken
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Chicken
      1 c  Minced onions
      4 tb Chicken fat
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      2 ts Flour
      2 c  Boiling water
 
  Have the chicken disjointed.  Brown the onions and chicken in the fat.
  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, paprika, garlic powder and flour.
  Stir in the water.  Cover and cook over low heat 2 hours or until the
  chicken is tender.  Serves 4 to 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958
  Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potage A La Reine  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Chicken fat
      3 tb Minced onion
    1/4 c  Flour
      4 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Shredded chicken
 
  Heat the chicken fat and cook the onion in it 10 minutes. Add the
  flour and then gradually the broth, stirring constantly until mixture
  reaches the boiling point.  Add the chicken and cook over low heat 10
  minutes. Serves 4 to 5.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
  by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by:
   Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-09-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Cholent
 Categories: Jewish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Eggs
      1 c  Fat -- melted
      2 c  Flour -- sifted
      3 ts Salt
      3 lb Flanken
      6    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Halved
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
 
  Beat the eggs, fat, flour and 1 teaspoon salt together. Form into a
  flat mound and place in the center of a Dutch oven or baking dish.
  Place the meat on one side of the dough and arrange the potatoes
  around it. Sprinkle with the pepper, paprika, garlic powder and
  remaining salt. Add enough boiling water to cover all the
  ingredients. Cover tightly and bake in a 250 degree oven 24 hours or
  in a 350 degreeoven 4 to 5 hours.    Slice the meat, cut the crust
  and serve with the potat
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Chremsel
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Potatoes -- cooked and
           Peeled
      2    Egg yolks
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 tb Potato starch
      2    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
           Butter or fat -- for frying
 
  Mash the potatoes and beat in the egg yolks, salt, pepper and potato
  starch.  Fold in the egg whites.    Melt the butter or fat in a
  skillet and drop the potato mixture into it by the tablespoon.  Fry
  until browned on both sides.  Serve with sour cream or applesauce.
  Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-23-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Knaidlach  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Passover, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Grated onion
    1/3 c  Potato flour
      3 tb Matzo meal
      4 c  Grated drained potatoes
 
  Beat the eggs, salt and onion together.  Stir in the potato flour,
  matzo meal and potatoes.  Shape into 1 1/2-inch balls.  Cook in
  salted water 20 minutes or until they rise tothe top.  Drain.  May be
  served with meat dishes, too.  Makes about 18.    Reci
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Potatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      1 c  Diced onions
      3 c  Cubed potatoes
      1    Carrot -- grated
      3 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Caraway seed -- optional
      2 tb Farina
      3 c  Milk
      3 tb Minced parsley
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  Melt the butter in a saucepan and brown the onions.  Add the potatoes,
  carrot, water, salt, pepper and caraway seed. Bring to a boil and
  stir in the farina.  Cook over low heat20 minutes.  Stir in the milk
  and parsley and bring to boiling point.  Garnish Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe
  Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-08-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato-Carrot Charlotte
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Grated carrots
    3/4 c  Water
      3 c  Grated, drained potatoes
      3    Egg yolks -- beaten
      4 tb Cracker meal
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Ginger
      4 tb Melted butter or fat
      3    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Cook the carrots in the water for 15 minutes.  Let cool in the water.
  Mix the potatoes, egg yolks, cracker meal, salt, sugar, ginger,
  butter or fat and the undrained carrots.  Fold in the egg whites.
  Turn into a greased 2-quart baking dish.    Bake in
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato-Dough Knishes
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes
      Yield: 20 servings
 
    3/4 c  Minced onions
      6 tb Chicken fat or butter
      4 c  Mashed potatoes
    1/2 c  Potato flour
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
    1/4    Teadsoon
           Pepper
 
  Brown the onions in 4 tablespoons chicken fat or butter. Cool.
    Knead together the remaining fat or butter, the potatoes, potato
  flour, eggs, salt and pepper.  Break off pieces (about 2-inches long)
  and flatten slightly.  Place a teaspoon of browned onions on each and
  cover by pinching the edges together. Place on a greased baking
  sheet. Bake in a 375 degree oven 25 minutes.  Makes about 20.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato-Flour Sponge Cake  <passover>
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes, Passover, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7    Egg yolks
      2    Eggs
  1 3/4 c  Powdered sugar
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Lemon rind
      7    Egg whites
    7/8 c  Potato flour -- sifted
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Beat the egg yolks and eggs; gradually add the sugar, beating until
  thick and light in color.  Stir in the lemon juice and rind.    Beat
  the egg whites until stiff but not dry.Pile onto the sugar mixture.
  Sift the potato flour and salt over it and fold i Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe
  Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-29-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato-Stuffed Breast Of Veal
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Potatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Breast of veal
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Fat
           -
      2 c  Grated potato -- drained
    1/2 c  Minced onion
      4 tb Potato flour
      1    Egg
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           POTATO STUFFING-----
 
  Have the butcher make a pocket in the veal.  Sprinkle with the salt,
  pepper, paprika and garlic powder.    Mix together all stuffing
  ingredients and fill the pocket with the mixture. Fasten the opening
  with skewers or thread.    Melt the fat in a roasting pan and place
  the veal in it. Roast in a 325 degree oven 3 hours or until meat is
  tender. Baste frequently and add a little water if pan becomes dry.
  Serves 6 to 8
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prunes And Beets
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Unsweetened prunes
      3 c  Julienne beets -- undrained
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 tb Sugar
      2 ts Vinegar
 
  Combine all the ingreients in a sauce pan.  Cover and cook over low
  heat 25 minutes or until prunes are tender.    Delicious when served
  as an accompaniment to roast meat or poultry.  Serves 4 to 6.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puffy Egg Cookies - {kichlach}
 Categories: Jewish, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      2 tb Sugar
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/4 ts Salt
      4 tb Poppy seeds -- (optional)
 
  Beat the eggs until light, then beat in the oil, sugar, flour and
  salt. Beat until very smooth.  Stir in the poppy seeds, if you like.
    Drop by the teaspoon onto a greased baking sheet, leaving about
  3-inches between each.  (They spread and puff in baking.)    Bake in
  a 325 degree oven 15 minutes or until browned on the edges.  Makes
  approximately 36 cookies. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Pickle
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables, Pickles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Peeled, cubed pumpkin
    3/4 c  White vinegar
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Dark corn syrup
     10    Cloves
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Salt
 
  Cut the pumpkin into 1-inch cubes.    Combine pumpkin with the
  vinegar, sugar, corn syrup, cloves, cinnamon and salt in a saucepan.
  Bring to a boil and cook over low heat until pumpkin looks
  translucent or is easily pricked with a toothpick.  Pack into two
  one-pint sterile jars and seal. Refrigerated, keeps 3 months.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for
  MasterC
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Kasha Cholent
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Dried lima beans
      4 lb Chuck or brisket
      2    Onions -- sliced
      2 tb Fat
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      5 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Kasha -- * see note
 
  * Note:  The recipe for "Kasha" is included in this database.    Soak
  the beans in water to cover for 12 hours.  Drain.    Brown the meat
  and onions in the fat.  Add the salt, pepper, paprika, garlic powder,
  water and beans. Cover loosely and cook over l little more water if
  necessary. Cook 1/2 hour longer or until meat and beans are tender.
  Slice the meat and serve with the beans and kasha. Serves 8 to 10.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-18-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rendered Fat And Grebenes
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Text  Only
 
  Remove fat and the fatty skin from chicken or goose.  For each cup of
  fat to be rendered, you'll need 1/4 cup of sliced onions and 1 slice
  apple. Wash and drain the fat and cut in small pieces. Cook over low
  heat until the fat is almost melted. Add the onions and apple and
  cook until the onions brown.  Cool and strain. The onions and pieces
  of skin (grebenes--cracklings) can be stored in refrigerator for use
  in a number o
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice-Cheese Casserole
 Categories: Jewish, Casseroles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Grated carrots
      2 c  Cooked rice
      2    Eggs -- beaten
    1/2 c  Light cream
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 tb Grated onion
      2 c  Grated American cheese
 
  Combine the carrots, rice, eggs, cream, salt, pepper, onion and 1 1/2
  cups cheese.  Pour into a greased 1 1/2-quart casserole.  Sprinkle
  with the remaining cheese.    Bake in a350 degree oven 50 minutes.
  Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOK
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice-Stuffed Cabbage
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Cabbage head
      2    Eggs
      4 tb Grated onion
      2 c  Half-cooked rice
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Seedless raisins
      4 tb Butter
      2    Onions -- sliced
      1 tb Potato flour
      2 c  Boiling water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  Pour boiling water over the cabbage and let it soak 10 minutes.
  Remove the top 18 leaves (if not large enough use 24).    Beat the
  eggs and gradually add the grated onion, rice, 1 teaspoon salt and
  half the raisins. Place a heaping tablespoon of the mixture on each
  leaf. Carefully roll up. Melt butter in a casserole. Lightly brown
  the sliced onions and cabbage rolls in it.  Sprinkle with the potato
  flour, then add the boiling
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Duck With Apples
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 lb Duck
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      3 c  Diced apples
     12    Pitted prunes
      1    Egg
      4 tb Dry bread crumbs
      2 tb Brown sugar
 
  Singe the duck to remove pin feathers; wash and dry. Make a paste of
  the salt, pepper and minced garlic.  Rub into the duck.  Mix together
  the apples, prunes, egg, bread crumbsand sugar.  Stuff the duck and
  close the opening. Place on a rack in a roasting
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Pullet
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Mashed potatoes
      2 tb Chicken fat -- melted
    1/2 c  Browned minced onions
      3 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      5 lb Pullet
    1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 c  Boiling water
 
  Mix together the potatoes, fat, onions, 1 teaspoon salt and 1/4
  teaspoon pepper.  Stuff the pullet and sew the opening or fasten with
  skewers. Season with the remaining salt, pepper and the ginger.
  Place in a roasting pan.    Roast in a 425 degree oven to brown on
  all sides. Add the water, reduce the heat to 350 degrees and roast 1
  1/2 hours longer, or until pullet is tender. Baste occasionally.
  Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
   (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A on 03-15-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Stuffed Goose
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     12 lb Goose
      4 tb Rendered goose fat
      1 c  Diced onions
      5 c  Grated drained potatoes
      1    Egg -- beaten
      4 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
 
  Remove as much fat from the goose as possible.  (See "Rendered Fat And
  Grebenes", included in this database,  on how to render fat.)  Grind
  or chop the liver and gizzard. Heat 4 tablespoons of the fat in a
  skillet and lightly brown the onions in it. Stir in the potatoes and
  cook over low heat 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Cool 5 minutes,
  then add egg, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt, 1/4 teaspoon pepper and 1
  teaspoon paprika. Sprinkle the garlic powder and the remaining salt,
  pepper and paprika on the goose, then stuff it.  Sew the openings or
  fasten with skewers. Place on a rack in a roasting pan. Cover the pan
  and roast in a 350 degree oven 30 minutes. Remove the cover and roast
  2 1/2 hours longer or until the goose is tender and
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Tongue
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Fresh tongue
      3    Onions -- sliced
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    3/4 ts Garlic powder
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Canned tomato sauce
      2    Tomatoes -- diced
      2 c  Boiling water
 
  Plunge the tongue into boiling water and cook 10 minutes. Drain and
  remove the skin and root.    Place the tongue in a roasting pan with
  the onions around it. Sprinkle with the salt, pepper and garlic
  powder. Add the bay leaf, tomato sauce, tomatoes and water. Cover the
  pan and roast in a 325 degree oven 3 hours or until the tongue is
  tender. Baste frequently and remove the cover for the last 30
  minutes. Discard the bay leaf. Serves 6 to 8.    Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books,
  Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
   Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-17-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salami And Eggs
 Categories: Jewish, Cheese/eggs, Sausage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 sl Salami
      2    Eggs
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
           Fat -- for frying
 
  Cut the salami in strips.  Lightly beat the eggs, salt and pepper.
    Fry the salami until lightly browned in a skillet.  Pour the eggs
  over it and cook over low heat until theeggs are set on the bottom.
  Turn over, pancake fashion, and cook until set.  S
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerkraut Beef
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Chuck
      3    Onions
      2 tb Fat
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 lb Sauerkraut
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Boiling water
 
  Cut the beef in 2-inch cubes and brown with the onions in the fat.
  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper and paprika.  Cover and cook over low
  heat 30 minutes.  Stir in the sauerkraut. Cook 10 minutes. Add the
  bay leaf and water.  Cover and cook an additional 1 1/2 hours. Remove
  bay leaf. Serves 6 to8.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
  by Jennie Grossinger Publis
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerkraut Soup  <meat>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Fat
      2 lb Flank
  1 1/2 c  Minced onions
           Beef bones
      1 lb Sauerkraut
      2 qt Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Peeled and cubed potatoes
 
  Heat the fat in a saucepan.  Brown the flank and onions in it.  Add
  the bones, sauerkraut, water, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil and
  cook over low heat 2 hours.  Add the potatoes and cook 20 minutes
  longer.  Serve with the meat as garnish. Serves 6 to 8. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:Joe
  Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-09-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scharfe Fish
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Onions -- sliced
      3    Carrots -- sliced
      2    Celery stalks -- sliced
      3 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6 sl Pike
      2    Egg yolks
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Combine the onions, carrots, celery, water, salt and pepper in a
  saucepan.
   Bring to a boil and add the fish. Cover and cook over low heat 30
  minutes. Transfer fish to a platter and strain the stock. Beat the
  egg yolks and lemon juice in a small saucepan. Gradually add the
  stock, mixing steadily. Cook over low heat, stirring steadily until
  it thickens, but do not let boil.  Pour over the fish. Sprinkle with
  the parsl
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scotch Barley Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Carrots -- grated
      3    Onions -- chopped
      2    Parsnips -- diced
      4 tb Butter
      2 qt Water
      1 c  Pearl barley
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Cook the carrots, onions and parsnips in the butter for 15 minutes.
  Add the water; bring to a boil and stir in the barley, salt and
  pepper.  Cook over low heat 1 1/2 hours. Sprinkle with the parsley.
  Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soup Nockerl
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Beat the eggs, water and salt together.  Mix in the flour and baking
  powder.    Drop by the teaspoon into boiling salted water. Cook until
  they rise to the surface, about 5 minutes.  Drain. Serve to your
  taste, according to your preference for thick or thin soup.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaetzel
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Flour -- sifted
      2    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Cold water
 
  Sift the flour into a bowl and make a well in the center. Drop the
  eggs, salt and water into it.  Work into the flour with the hand and
  knead until the dough leaves the sides of the bowl. Knead on a board
  until smooth and elastic. Divide the dough in four pieces and roll
  into pencil-thin strips.Cut into 1-inch pieces and drop into boiling
  salted water. Cook until they rise to the surface.  Drain.  Serve hot
  with meats. Serves 6 to 8.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Com
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti With Vegetarian Meat Balls
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Onions -- diced
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
      4 tb Olive oil
      1 cn (#2 1/2) Tomatoes
      1 cn Tomato paste
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2    Onions -- chopped
      1    Celery stalk -- chopped
      3    Carrots -- grated
      6 tb Butter
      3    Eggs -- beaten
  1 1/2 c  Matzo meal
      2 c  Cooked green peas
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lb Spaghetti -- cooked and
           Drained
           Grated Swiss cheese
 
  Cook the diced onions and mushrooms in the oil for 10 minutes.  Add
  the tomatoes, tomato paste and oregano.  Cover and cook over low heat
  1 hour. Correct seasoning.    Cook the chopped onions, celery and
  carrots in half the butter for 15 minutes.  Cool.  Add the eggs, 1
  cup matzo meal, the peas, salt and pepper.  Roll into small balls and
  dip in remaining matzo meal.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 pk Frozen spinach
    1/2 c  Water
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Minced onion
      3 tb Flour
      6 c  Milk
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ds Nutmeg
 
  Cook the spinach in the water for 5 minutes.  Force it through a food
  mill. Melt the butter in a saucepan and cook the onion in it for 5
  minutes. Blend in the flour and gradually add the milk.  Stir in the
  spinach, salt, pepper and nutmeg.  Cook over
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Split Pea Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Split peas
  2 1/2 qt Water
      2    Onions -- diced
      1    Carrot -- grated
      2    Celery stalks -- sliced
      2    Sprigs Parsley
      2    Sprigs Dill
      3    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Diced
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 c  Milk
      1 tb Butter
 
  Wash the peas and combine with the water, onions, carrot, celery,
  parsley and dill.  Cover; bring to a boil and cook over low heat 2
  1/2 hours. Add the potatoes, salt and pepper.  Cook 20 minutes.  Stir
  in the milk and butter, bring to boiling point and serve.  Serves 8.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOK
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Squash And Rice
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Yellow squash
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Rice
      2 ts Sugar
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Light cream
 
  Peel the squash and slice it very thin.  Cook the squash in a
  saucepan over low heat until the liquid from the squash covers the
  bottom of the pan. Add the salt and rice.  Cover loosely and cook
  over low heat 50 minutes. Watch carefully while cooking and add a
  little water if necessary. Mash the squash and stir in the sugar,
  butter and cream.  Taste for seasoning. Serves 6.    Recipe Source:
  THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.(c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe
  Comiskey JPMD44A  on
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel  - Stretched Dough
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
      3 tb Salad oil
    1/4 c  Lukewarm water
      1    Strudel Filling recipe -- *
           See note
 
  * Note:  The recipes for 10 different strudel fillings are included
  in this database.    Sift the flour and salt into a bowl.  Make a
  well in the center and drop the eggs, oil and water into it.  Work
  into the flour, mixing until the dough leaves the sides of the bowl.
  Knead the dough for 10 minutes or until ver dough as thin as you can.
  Now you must begin stretching it. Flour the knuckles of your hands
  and gently pull the dough toward you from underneath, using the back
  of your hands. Change your position as the dough stretches so as not
  to put too much strain on any one part.  Stretch until dough is
  transparent, then brush with oil or melted butter.  Cut away any
  thick edges. Spread one of the fillings over half the surface; then
  raise the cloth and roll up the strudle from the filled side, guiding
  it with the other hand. Place on a heavily greased baking pan. Brush
  with oil or melted butter.    Bake in a 400 degree oven 35 minutes or
  until browned and crisp. Cut into 1 1/2-inch slices immediately.
  Makes about 40 slices. If you like a smaller strudel, divide dough in
  two before rolling, makes 2 strudels.   Comments:  Strudel dough
  takes practice and patience. Your first few tries may not be
  successful but try again--it's worth it.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel  - Unstretched Dough
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg
    2/3 c  Ice water
      4 tb Salad oil
      1    Strudel Filling recipe -- *
           See note
 
  * Note:  The recipes for 10 different strudel fillings are included
  in this database.    Sift the flour, salt and baking powder into a
  bowl. Make a well in the center and drop the egg, water and oil into
  it.  Work into the flour and knead until smooth and elastic. Place a
  warm bowl over it for 30 minutes.    Roll out as thin as possible and
  spread with one of the fillings.  Roll up like a jelly roll, brush
  with oil or melted butter. Bake in a 350 degree oven 45 minutes.  Cut
  into 1-inch slices while hot. Makes ab
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Apple Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Fine bread crumbs
  1 1/2 c  Ground nuts
      4 c  Chopped apples
      2 tb Grated lemon rind
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Seedless raisins
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Sprinkle bread crumbs over half the oiled, stretched dough (two
  recipes for strudel dough are included in this database).  Sprinkle
  the nuts over it and spread evenly with the hand. Mix the apples,
  lemon rind, lemon juice and raisins together. Spread over the nuts.
  Sprinkle with the sugar mixed with the cinnamon. Roll up. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Cabbage Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Finely shredded cabbage
    1/2 c  Minced onions
    1/3 c  Butter or chicken fat
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 ts Sugar
 
  Cook the cabbage and onions in the butter or fat over low heat 25
  minutes, mixing occasionally.  Stir in the salt, pepper and sugar.
   Cool.  Roll up in strudel dough (two recipes for strudel dough are
  included in this database). Serve with main courses.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Gro
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Cheese Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Pot cheese
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      3 tb Dry bread crumbs
 
  Beat the eggs and sugar until thick.  Add the pot cheese, cream
  cheese and vanilla.  Continue to beat until smooth.    Sprinkle the
  bread crumbs over half the oiled strudel dough (two recipes for
  strudel dough are included in this database) and spread the cheese
  mixture over it. Roll up. Recipe Source: THE A
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Coconut Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Shredded coconut
      2 c  Ground nuts
      2 c  Fruit preserves
 
  For this recipe (because coconut is very rich), it is advisable to
  make 4 small strudels.  Mix the coconut, nuts and preserves together
  and spread 1/4 amount on each piece of oiled dough (two recipes for
  strudel dough are included in this database).  Roll
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Liver Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Calf's liver
      1 c  Diced onions
    1/2 c  Chicken fat
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Cube the liver and cook it with the onions in the chicken fat until
  the liver loses its redness.  Chop the liver (use the fat remaining
  in the pan, too).  Add the salt and pepper.  Spread on the oiled
  strudel dough (two recipes for strudel dough are included in this
  database) and roll up. Make 4 small strudels w
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Mixed Dried Fruit Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Prunes -- pitted
      1 lb Dates -- pitted
      1 c  Candied mixed fruit
      1    Whole Lemon
      2 c  Walnuts
      4 tb Sugar
      2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Grind the prunes, dates, candied fruit, lemon and walnuts in a food
  chopper.  Divide the strudel dough (two recipes for strudel dough are
  included in this database) in two. Spread the rolled dough with oil
  and use half the fruit mixture for each.  Roll up, brush with oil and
  sprinkle with a mixture of sugar and cinnamon.    Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-30-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Poppy Seed Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Poppy seeds -- ground
    3/4 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Light cream
    1/2 c  Currants
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
      3 tb Melted butter
 
  Cook the poppy seeds, honey, cream and currants until thick.  Stir in
  the lemon rind and cool.  Spread on the oiled strudel dough (two
  recipes for strudel dough are included inthis database) and roll up.
  Brush with the butter.    Recipe Source: THE ART O
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Sauerkraut Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Sauerkraut
    1/4 c  Minced onion
      4 tb Butter or chicken fat
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Rinse the sauerkraut in cold water and drain.  Cook the sauerkraut and
  onions in the butter or fat for 15 minutes. Stir in the sugar and
  pepper. Cool.  Spread on strudel dough(two recipes for strudel dough
  are included in this database) and roll up.  Ser
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Walnut Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Chopped walnuts
      2 c  Chopped apples
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ts Cinnamon
      3 tb Grated lemon rind
 
  Spread the nuts on half the oiled dough (two recipes for strudel
  dough are included in this database) and cover with the apples.
  Sprinkle with the sugar mixed the cinnamon andlemon rind.  Roll up.
    This strudel is also good made in thin rolls, so divid Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-30-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Helzel Or Derma
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Goose neck skin
           (or 2 to 3 chicken neck
           Skins)

MMMMM------------------------STUFFING MIX-----------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
      4 tb Grated onion
    1/2 c  Rendered goose fat -- * see
           Note
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
 
  * Note:  See recipe for "Rendered Fat And Grebenes" (included in this
  database).    Carefully remove the neck skin of a goose or two or
  three chickens.  Sew together one end.    Lightly mix all stuffing
  ingredients together.  Stuff skins with the mixture, then sew the
  other end.  Roast in the pan with the goose.  Cut inslices to serve.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Gro
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Submarine Sandwich
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           French or Italian bread
           Mustard
           Relish
           Corned beef slices
           Pastrami slices
           Tongue slices
           Salami slices
 
  Cut a long French or Italian bread in half lengthwise and spread one
  side with mustard and relish.  Arrange slices of corned beef,
  pastrami, tongue, and salami on it.  Cover with other half of bread.
  This may be cut into 2-inch slices to serve with cocktails or eaten
  as a whole sandwich. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
   (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterC
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sunday Sweetbreads
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4    Pairs Calf's sweetbreads
      1 tb Vinegar
      3 c  Water
      3 ts Salt
      4 tb Chicken fat
      1 c  Diced onions
      1 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
      2 tb Potato flour
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
      3 tb Minced parsley
 
  Wash the sweetbreads and soak in cold water for 20 minutes.  Drain.
  Combine the sweetbreads, vinegar, 3 cups water and 2 teaspoons salt
  in a saucepan. Bring to a boil and cook over low heat 20 minutes.
  Remove sweetbreads and plunge into ice water for 20 minutes. Measure
  2 cups of the stock and reserve.  Remove the membrane and dice the
  sweetbreads. Melt 2 tablespoons fat in a skillet and brown the onions
  in it. Remove the onions and reserve. Melt the remaining fat in the
  skillet. Cook Mix the potato flour and stock until smooth and stir
  into the mushrooms. Cook over low heat 5 minutes, stirring
  constantly.  Add the browned onions, the sweetbreads, remaining salt,
  the pepper, paprika and parsley. Heat and serve on toast or in patty
  sh
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potatoes Hawaiian
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or fat
      6    Sweet potatoes -- peeled
           And cut in half lengthwise
      1 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 c  Crushed pineapple --
           Undrained
 
  Melt the butter or fat in a skillet; brown the potatoes in it.  Add
  the brown sugar and pineapple.  Cook over low heat 45 minutes or
  until tender.
   Turn the potatoes frequently.  Serves 6 to 8.    Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Gross
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potatoes Royal
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Dried apricots
      1 c  Brown sugar
      2 lb Sweet potatoes -- cooked and
           Peeled
    1/4 c  Melted butter or fat
    1/2 c  Blanched almonds -- sliced
 
  Wash the apricots and soak in 2 cups of water for 2 hours.  Bring to
  a boil and cook over low heat 20 minutes or until tender. Stir in the
  sugar. Slice the potatoes 1/2-inch thick. Arrange layers of the
  potatoes and undrained apricots in a casserole.  Pour the butter or
  fat over the top. Bake in a 375 degree oven 35 minutes, basting
  twice. Sprinkle with the almonds and bake 10minutes longer. Serves 8.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by J
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-And-Sour Calf's Liver With Spaetzel
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Onions -- sliced
      3 tb Fat
      1 lb Calf's liver -- diced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
      2 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Sugar
 
  Lightly brown the onions in the fat.  Add the liver and cook over
  medium heat 5 minutes.  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper, paprika and
  flour.  Add the water, lemon juice and sugar, stirring constantly
  until mixture reaches the boiling point. Cook over low heat 5
  minutes. Taste to correct seasoning and serve with "Spaetzel" (recipe
  included in this database). Serves 4. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A  on 03-18-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-Potato-And-Prune Tzimmes
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Prunes
      3 c  Boiling water
      2 tb Fat
      3 lb Brisket
      2    Onions -- diced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3    Sweet potatoes -- peeled,
           Quartered
    1/2 c  Honey
      2    Cloves
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Wash prunes and let soak in the boiling water 1/2 hour.    Melt the
  fat in a Dutch oven.  Cut the beef in 6 or 8 pieces and brown with
  the onions. Sprinkle with the salt and pepper.  Cover and cook over
  low heat 1 hour. Add the undrained prunes, sweet p
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Tomatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Canned tomatoes
      1 c  Water
      4 tb Grated onion
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
      1 c  Scalded milk
    2/3 c  Cooked rice
 
  Over low heat, cook tomatoes, water, onion, salt and sugar for 30
  minutes.
   Force through a food mill.  Stir in the milk and rice.  Serve hot.
  Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tongue With Sweet-And-Sour Sauce
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Fat
      1    Onion -- diced
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Tongue stock -- * see note
    1/3 c  Vinegar
    1/3 c  Honey
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Powdered ginger
    1/4 c  Seedless raisins
    1/4 c  Blanched almonds -- sliced
      1    Lemon -- thinly sliced
      1    Cooked tongue
 
  * Note:  See the recipe for "Boiled Pickled Tongue" which is included
  in this database.    Melt the fat in a sauce pan and lightly brown
  the onion. Sprinkle the flour on the browned onion; gradually add the
  stock, stirring constantly until mixture boils. vinegar, honey, salt,
  ginger and raisins. Cook over low heat 5 minutes. Add the almonds and
  lemon. Cook 2 minutes. Slice the tongue and serve with the sauce.
  Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958
   Recipeformatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on
  03-17-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tzibbele Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Egg yolks
      3 c  Minced onions
    1/3 c  Cracker or matzo meal
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 tb Melted fat or butter
      6    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Beat the egg yolks until thick.  Stir in the onions, meal, salt,
  pepper and fat or butter.  Fold in the egg whites.  Turn into a
  greased 2-quart casserole.    Bake in a 350 degree oven for 40
  minutes or until set. Serves 6 to 8.    Recipe Source: THE ART
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Burgers
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Minced onions
      6 tb Fat
      4 sl White bread
  1 1/2 lb Ground veal
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3    Eggs -- beaten
    3/4 c  Matzo or cracker meal
 
  Brown the onions in half the fat.  Wet the bread and mash until
  smooth. Mix the browned onions, bread, veal, salt, pepper and 2 eggs.
  Shape into hamburgers.  Dip in the remaining beaten egg and then in
  the meal. Heat the remaining fat in a skillet.  Cook burgers over low
  heat until browned on both sides.  S
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Soup  <dairy>
 Categories: Jewish, Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Onions -- diced
      3 tb Butter
      2 qt Water
      2    Carrots -- grated
      4 c  Mixed vegetables - (cabbage
           Green peas, green beans,
           Lima beans)
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Diced
      2    Tomatoes -- diced
      2    Sprigs Dill
      1 c  Milk
 
  Brown the onions in the butter in a deep saucepan and add the water,
  carrots, vegetables, salt and pepper.  Cover and cook over low heat 10
  minutes.  Add the potatoes, tomatoes and dill.  Cook 25 minutes. Stir
  in the milk and serve hot. Serves 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958
  Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe ComiskeyJPMD44A  on
  03-08-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Verenikas
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Pitted sour cherries
           (or blueberries)
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Cold water
      1    Homemade Noodles -- * see
           Note
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  * Note:  the recipe for "Homemade Noodles" is included in this
  database.
   Save any juice that oozes from the cherries (if cherries are used).
  Combine the fruit and juice, sugar and lemon juice in a saucepan.  Mix
  cornstarch and water and add. Cook over
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wilted Red-Cabbage Slaw
 Categories: Jewish, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Red cabbage
      3 c  Boiling water
      1 tb Salt
      4 tb Salad or olive oil
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 ts Sugar
      4 tb Minced onion
    1/2 c  Grated apple
 
  Shred the cabbage and combine with the boiling water and salt.  Let
  stand 10 minutes.  Drain.    Mix the oil, lemon juice, pepper and
  sugar together. Add to the cabbage with the onion and apple. Toss
  until well mixed. Chill for 1/2 hour before serving.  Serves 6 to 8.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
   (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for M
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wonder Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shortening
      1 c  Sugar
      5    Egg yolks
  2 1/4 c  Cake flour -- sifted
    3/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
           Confectioners' sugar
 
  Cream the shortening and beat in the sugar.  Add one yolk at a time,
  beating after each addition.  Sift together the flour, salt and baking
  powder and add to batter, alternating with the milk. Beat in the
  vanilla. Grease a 10-inch loaf pan and dust it lightly with flour.
  Pour the batter into it.    Bake in a 350 degree oven 1 hour or until
  a cake tester comes out clean.  Cool on a cake rack.  Sprinkle with
  confectioners' sugar. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, I
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yeast Crumb Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (or cake) Yeast
    1/3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lukewarm water
    1/3 c  Lukewarm milk
      2 c  Flour -- sifted
      4 tb Butter
      2    Eggs
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Melted butter

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      4 tb Melted butter
      4 tb Sugar
      2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
 
  Combine the yeast, 1 tablespoon sugar and the water in a small bowl.
  Set aside for 5 minutes.  Stir in the milk and 1/2 cup flour.  Cover
  and set aside to rise in a warm placeuntil double in bulk.    Cream
  the butter, gradually adding the remaining sugar
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ruz Tatbilla (Rice With Chicken Livers)
 Categories: Rice, Poultry, Jerusalem
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken livers
           Oil or butter for cooking
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
      2 c  Cooked rice
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Chopped blanched almonds
    1/4 c  Pine nuts (Pignolias)
           Fresh parsley -- chopped
 
  cut the chicken livers in half, rinse them with cold water and pat
  them dry. In a large frying pan, saute the livers and onion in butter
  or oil until tender, about 8-10 minutes. Meanwhile, saute the nuts in
  butter until brown, about 5 minutes. Add the ric
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of  Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strudel -  Cherry Filling
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Finely ground nuts -- not
           Peanuts
      4 c  Canned sour red cherries --
           Pitted and drained
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Spread the nuts over half the oiled dough (two recipes for strudel
  dough are included in this database) and cover with the cherries.
  Sprinkle with the sugar.  Roll up.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brown Stock
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Onion -- quartered
      3    Celery stalks -- chopped
           (use the heart and top as
           -well)
      2    Cloves -- 1 can
      1    Clove garlic
      4    Peppercorns
    1/2    Piece 1/2"-inch unpeeled
           -root ginger
      7 pt Cold water
 
  1.  Place all the ingredients in a large pot with a well-fitting lid
  and bring to a boil.  Adjust the heat to maintain a faint simmer. (It
  is important to make sure that the stockis not boiled as boiling
  results in a cloudy broth.)  Simmer for 4-5 houts, 2. Leave to cool,
  then strain. Use as required.
  
  Makes about 6 pints.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Sate
 Categories: Vietnamese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Coconut cream or plain
           -yogurt
      1    Clove garlic -- crushed
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 lb Fresh chicken -- cubed
           DIPPING SAUCE
      2 tb Coconut cream or plain
           -yogurt
      1    Clove garlic -- crushed
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Chopped fresh mint
 
  1.  Combine the coconut cream or yogurt with the garlic, chili powder,
  cumin, cilantro, and lemon juice.  Marinate the chicken pieces in the
  mixture for at least 4 hours, turning frequently.
  
  2. Make the dipping sauce by mixing all the ingredients except the
  mint thoroughly. Leave to blend in a cool place.
  
  3. When the chicken is ready, thread it on to four skewers. Place on
  the barbecue or unde a preheated high broiler and cook until well
  done, basting frequently with the marinadeand turning.
  
  4. Heat the dipping sauce and toss in the mint leaves.  Serve
  separately.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Stock
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    To 4 pounds chicken bones
      1    Piece 1/2-inch root ginger
           Peeled and sliced
      2    Green onions -- cut into
           Halves
      4    Peppercorns
      7 pt Cold water
 
  1.  Place all the ingredients in a heavy pan with a well-fiting lid.
  Bring to a boil, then immediately reduce the heat to a gentle simmer.
  Skin off the gray foam until clear. 2. Bring to a boil again,
  reducing the heat the moment the first bubbles appear 3. Leave to
  cook, then strain and use as required.
  
  Makes about 6 pints
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Stock
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Fish bits -- see note
      1    Onion -- roughly cut
      1    Carrot -- roughly cut
      2    Stalks celery -- roughly
           Cut
      1    Clove garlic
      4    Black peppercorns
      5 c  Water
 
  1.  Place all the ingredients in a heavy pan with a tight-fitting
  lid, and bring to a boil.  Reduce the heat immediately, and skim off
  any gray foam that appears until a clear broth is left.  Adjust the
  hea and leave to simmer for about 3 hours.  Use as r
  
  Makes about 3 3/4 cups.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Stock
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vietnamese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Carrots -- roughly chopped
      4    Celery stalks -- roughly
           Chopped
           (preferably the heart, tops
           And leaves)
      3    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Quartered
      3    Green onions -- roughly cut
      4    Pieces wood ear fungus --
           Soaked and drained
      4    Peppercorns
      2    Cloves
      5 pt Cold water
 
  1.  Bring all the ingredients to a boil in a heavy pan.  Immediately
  reduce the heat, and then adjust to simmer for 3 hours.  Use as
  required.
  
  Makes 7 1/2 cups.
  
  Recipe Source: VIETNAMESE COOKING - EXOTIC DELIGHTS FROM INDO-CHINA by
  Paulette Do Van.  Published by Chartwell Books, Inc. Copyright (c)
  1993. Recipe formatted by Olivia Liebermann RDSE68B on May, 1995.
  
  Recipe By     : "Vietnamese Cooking" by Paulette Do Van, Chartwell
  Books
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Adams Apple Cake (The Forbidden Fruit)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Jerusalem
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
           Cake
      5 lg Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Vegetable oil
      2 c  Flur
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      6    Or 7 tart cooking apples
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
           Topping
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 ts Rum
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
           Or
    1/4 c  Melted butter
    1/4 c  Walnuts
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Sugar
 
  Cake: Beat the eggs together until they are light and frothy; blend
  them well with the sugar. beat in the oil. Sift together the flour,
  baking powder, and salt and add this to theegg mixture. Add the
  vanilla; beat well. peel the apples and slice them thin
  
  Preheat oven to 350.
  
  Grease a 9 inch by 13 inch pan. Pour in enough batter to cover the
  bottom well, a little less than half the batter. Arrange the apples
  evenly over the batter and cover them with the remaining batter. Bake
  for 1 hour.
  
  Toppigs: To serve this as a dessert, spread the cake with whipped
  cream sweetened with the 1/4 cup of sugar and flagored with the
  cinnamon and rum extract.
  
  To serve it as a coffee cake, brush the top with the melted butter.
  Sprinkle a mixture of walnuts, cinnamon and sugar on top. Then pace
  the cake under the broiler for about 2 minutes. Serve it warm.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Cake Eden
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Jerusalem
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
  1 1/4 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Sugar
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
      1 lg Egg -- slighty beaten
      6    Or 7 medium size or 2 lb
           Tart cooking apples
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Preheat oven to 350 and grease a 8 inch flan pan or a small round
  springform pan.
  
  Mix flour, salt and baking powder. with your hands combine the butter
  or margarine with the flour until the mixture is crumbly. Add the
  sugar and lemon rind. Blend the ingredients well and set them aside.
  Peel the apples and grate them on the large holes of a grater, apples
  are easily handled if they are left whole after peeling. Mix them
  with the sugar and let them drain for a quarter hour in a colander.
  Mix Spread the apples over the dough in the pan. With the remaining
  dough design a large apple on top of the fruit. bake for 30 minutes,
  until the apples are tender. The recipe amy bedou bled for a larger
  cake. Best served cold.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Almond Velvet (Ice Cream)
 Categories: Chocolate, Ice cream, Jerusalem
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1    16 oz can chocolate syrup
      1    16 oz can sweetened
           Condensed milk
      4 c  Whipping cream
      2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Blanched almonds
 
  Before starting, make sure you have a very large plastic container
  with a tight fitting lid and enough rom in your frezer to store it.
  Measure 6 cups of water into the container and see if there is enough
  space left to use an electric beater without it sp remove the mixture
  from the freezer. Stir in the vanilla, and beat the ice cream at high
  speed with a hand mixer until it is the consistency of softened ice
  cream. This takes a fair bit of time, fold in the almonds, store the
  ice cream in the freezer. It
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamed Herring
 Categories: Jerusalem, Fish, Appetizers
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Wine vinegar
     10    Herrings, cleaned -- soaked
           Over nght and filleted --
           With
        ea Fillet cut into 5
           Pieces
      1 md Onion
 
  Whip cream with sugar. Fold in vinegar. Layer fllets and onion slices
  in glass jar and pour cream mixture over. Cover.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hummus (Chick Pea Dip)
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips/spread, Jerusalem
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
      2 c  Canned chick peas --
           Drained
    2/3 c  Tahina paste ( Ground
           Sesame seeds)
    3/4 c  Lemon juice
     20    Milliliters
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cumin
           Parsley for garnish
           Garlic -- mashed
 
  Place all the ingredients in a blender and mix with the chickpeas
  until smooth. Store the  hummus in a covered container n the
  refrigerator. Serve well chilled, and just before serving sprinkle
  chopped parsley on top.
  
  if a thinner consistency is required, thin with lemon juice.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Spinach
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      2 lb Fresh spinach
      1 sm Onon -- chopped fine
           Butter for sauteing
      1 tb Tomato paste
      2    Tomatoes -- peeled and
           Chopped
           Coarsely
      1    Beef bouillon cube --
           Crumbled
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  wash the spinach 2-3 times, discard any imperfect leaves and dry with
  a towel. Chop it coarsely. In a saucepan, saute the onion in buter
  until it is tender and golden, but not crisp. Add the tomato paste
  and pieces Stir to mix the ingredients. Place the s
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Knishes
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a -- nathan
           And goldman
           Pastry
      4 c  Flour
      1 c  Salted margarine or butter
      1 lg Egg -- slightly beaten
      1 tb White vinegar
    1/4 c  Club soda
           Topping
      1 lg Egg yolk
           Sesame seeds
           Filling
      6 md Size potatoes
      1 lg Onion -- chopped small
           Cooking oil, chicken fat
           Or margarine
      1 lg Egg beaten
      1 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
 
  Pastry: blend in the margarine or butter with the flour. add the egg,
  vinegar and club soda. Knead well and form the dough into a ball.
  Place in the refrigerator for 2 hours.
  
  Filling: Peel and halve the potatoes. cook them, covered, in boiling
  salted water until tender, about 30 minutes. Drain and mash. While
  the potatoes are cooking fry the onions incooking oil, chicken fat or
  margarine until soft and golden but not crisp.  A
  Procedure. Preheat the oven to 375. Divide the dough into four parts,
  roll it out thin an dcut into small circles, about 2 inches in
  diameter. Place 1 tsp of the potatoe mixture in the center of each.
  Fold the crust in half and crimp the edges to close wi Variation:
  Take 1/4 of the dough and roll out into a large circle. Place the
  mixture on half of dough circle, fold the other side over and crimp
  the edges closed with a fork dipped in cold water. brush the surface
  with egg yolk and sesame seeds and bake a
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Bread
 Categories: Breads, Beverages
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      7    Pat dwigans -- nathan and
           Goldman
      4 lg Eggs
      2 c  Canned or fresh pumpkin not
           Pie filling
      1 c  Cooking oil
    2/3 c  Cold water
  3 1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 ts Nutmeg
      3 c  Sugar
 
  Preheat the oven to 350.
  
  Beat the eggs until frothy. Add the pumpkin, oil and water; blend
  well. mix all the remaining ingredents and add to the egg pumpkin
  mixture. For this batter use 2 5 3/4 x 9 3/4 inch x 2 3/4 inch pans.
  Grease and flour the pans, pour the batter in and bake
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavor of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Curry
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      2 lb Shrimp -- peeled and
           Deveined
      4    Onions
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/8 c  Flour
      6    Tomatoes
      2 c  Chicken stock
      4    -10 drops tabasco sauce
      1    -4 T curry powder
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Dry vermouth or
      1 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Grated emmenthal or
           Parmesan
           Cheese
      2 c  Rice or buttered toast
 
  Preheat oven to 400. Steam the shrimps in a small amount of water in a
  tightly covered saucepan for 5 minutes until firm. Rinse with cold
  water, peel and devein them. Peel the onions and cut them into
  quarters. Saute them in margarine, sprinkling lightly Add the chicken
  stock, bring to the boil, lower the heat to moderate, stir and cook
  to reduce the sauce slightly, themixture should bubble while cooking.
  Add the tabasco sauce, curry powder, salt and papper. Lower the heat
  and add the shrimps. Pouron the vermouth or wine and sprinkle with
  grated cheese. Place in the oven to brown. Serve with steamed rice or
  on buttered toast, with a green salad.
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steak With Apricots
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      2 lb Round steak -- cut in cubes
    1/4 c  Cooking oil
      2 tb Minced onion
    1/2 lb Halved dried apricots
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/4 c  Pine nuts (Pignolias)
           Chopped fresh parsley
           Sauce
      1 tb Margarine
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Cold milk
      3    - 4 T tomato paste
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Steak: saute the onions and steak cubes in the coking oil until they
  are lightly browned on all sides. Stir in the apricots, add a small
  amount of water to prevent sticking, coverthe pan and cook over low
  heat 20-30 minutes until the meat is tender.
  
  Sauce: melt the margarine, quickly stir in the flour until the
  mixture is paste like and immediately add the milk, stirring
  constantly. Over medium heat, stir the mixture until it thickens,
  then stir inthe tomato paste and cook over low heat for a few min
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Artichokes
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           *****  NONE  *****
 
  Yield: 4 servings -pat dwigans fwds07a 4 lg Antichokes, about 2 lbs,
  cut In half crosswise about 2 in From the base, remove the Leaves and
  boil them Separately to be eaten Dipped i butter, and with a Sharp
  knife scrape out and Remove the inner hairlike Part of the artichok
  Bring to a boil enough water to cover the artichokes well, add the
  lemon juice and cook the artichokes, covered, over medium heat for a
  half hour. Mix the meat, onion, parsley, and bread crumbs; season
  with salt and pepper. Pack 1/4 of the mixture tightly Cook gently
  covered, for 1/2 hour
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkish Coffee
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      1 tb Finely ground coffee
           Available at stores
           Specializing in Middle
           Eastern food stuffs and
           Certain spice shops
      1 ts Sugar more or less to taste
           Cardamom pods according
           To taste
           Boiling water
 
  Place the coffee and sugar in a feenjan or a saucepan and mix them
  together well. Add boiling water, the measure of a serving cup plus a
  little more. Stir well. Add the cardamom pods, you will have to
  experiment to see how many you like to achive the desi Multiply this
  recipe by what ever number is required for more than one cup
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vadas (Sweet And Sour Pot Roast)
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dwigans fwds07a
      3 ts Sugar
      4 tb Dijon mustard
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      2    Carrots -- peeled and
           Sliced
      3 lb Beef chuck
      2    Bay leaves
 
  mix the sugar and mustard, add the sugar mustard combinaton to the
  oil, water and vinegar. Add the carrot. Place the meat in a
  casserole, pour the sauce over and place bay leaves in the dish.
  Cover and simmer over low heat until all liquid is absorbed, ab
  
  Recipe By     : "The Flavors of Jerusalem" by Nathan and Goldman
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      6 tb Sugar
    1/4 lb Butter
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Milk
      4 c  Peeled, sliced apples
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Currant jelly -- (optional)
 
  Sift the flour, salt, baking powder and 3 tablespoons sugar into a
  bowl. Work in half of the butter.  Beat the eggs and milk together
  and add, mixing until a dough is formed. Pat onto a buttered 12 x
  18-inch baking pan. Arrange the apples in rows.  Sprin
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Fritters
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     12 sl Peeled apples -- thin
           Slices
      5 tb Sugar
      2 tb Brandy
  1 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg
      1 c  Milk
      2 tb Melted butter
           Butter -- for frying
 
  Sprinkle the apple slices with 4 tablespoons of the sugar and the
  brandy. Set aside.    Sift the flour, salt and baking powder into a
  bowl. Beat the egg, milk and melted butter together and add to the
  flour mixture gradually, beating until smooth.    Heat a little
  butter in a large skillet.  The next operation must be donequickly.
  Pour about 1 tablespoon of the batter into the pan, place an apple
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Chicken
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Fryer chicken
      1 c  Bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Cracker meal
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs -- beaten
    1/3 c  Chicken fat
      2    Onions -- thinly sliced
 
  Have the chicken disjointed.  Mix the bread crumbs, cracker meal,
  salt and pepper together.  Dip the chicken pieces in the egg and then
  in the bread-crumb mixture.    Brown thechicken in the fat, removing
  the pieces as they brown. Lightly brown the onions in the fat
  remaining in the pan. Arrange the chicken in a baking dish with the
  onions around it. Bake in a 350 degree oven 45 minutes.  Serves 4.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
    (c) 1958   Recipe formatted
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Gefilte Fish
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Pike or halibut fillets
      1    Onion
      2 sl White bread -- soaked in
           Water
    1/2 c  Water
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1    Egg
      2 tb Salad oil
      2    Onions -- sliced
      1    Green pepper -- diced
      1 c  Canned tomato sauce
 
  Grind the fish and onion.  Transfer to a chopping bowl and add the
  soaked bread squeezed dry, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt, 1/4 teaspoon pepper
  and the egg. Chop until fine and smooth.  Shape into 12 balls.
  Combine the oil, sliced onions, green pepper, tomato sauce and
  remaining salt and pepper in a baking dish. Arrange the balls in it.
  Bake in a 325 degree oven 45 minu
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Lasagne
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Casseroles
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Minced onions
      1 c  Thinly sliced green peppers
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 cn (#2 1/2) Tomatoes
      1 cn (8 oz) Tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Grated dry Gouda or Edam
           Cheese
    1/2 lb Lasagne (1 1/2" wide
           Noodles)
    3/4 lb Swiss cheese -- sliced
  1 1/2 lb Cottage cheese
 
  Heat the olive oil; cook the onions, green peppers and garlic in it
  for 10 minutes.  Add the salt, pepper, oregano, parsley, tomatoes and
  tomato sauce.  Cover and cook over low heat 30 minutes. Stir in 2
  tablespoons Gouda cheese.    Cook the lasagne (if you can't get it,
  use broad noodles) as package directs.  Spread 1/3 of the sauce on
  the bottom of a 12 x 8-inch baking dish.  Arrange alternating layers
  of the lasagne, Swiss, cottage cheese, a sprinkling of the Gouda and
  spread with sauce; then repeat until all the ingredients are arranged
  in layers in baking dish. Cover with remaining sauce and sprinkle top
  with remaining Gouda cheese. Bake in a 350 de 8. Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books,
  Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe
  Comiskey JPMD44Aon 03-18-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Salmon
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      4 sl Salmon
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Onion -- sliced
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Light cream
 
  Melt the butter in a baking dish.  Arrange the salmon in it and
  sprinkle with the salt and pepper.  Surround with the onion slices
  and bay leaf. Bake in a 375 degree oven 15 minutes.  Pour the cream
  over the fish and bake for additional 25 minutes, basting frequently.
  Serves 4 to 6. RecipeSource: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Goulash
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Chuck
      2 tb Fat
      5    Onions -- diced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2    Green peppers -- sliced
      1 c  Canned tomato sauce
 
  Cut the beef in 2-inch cubes.  Heat the fat in a heavy saucepan or
  Dutch oven and brown the meat in it.  Stir in the onions and continue
  to brown. Sprinkle with the salt, paprika and pepper.  Cover and cook
  over low heat 1/2 hour. Add the green peppers a
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beet Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Grated cooked beets
      4 tb Grated horseradish
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Vinegar
      2 tb Salad or olive oil
 
  Mix all the ingredients together and chill for 2 hours. Serves 6 to 8.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Breads, Puddings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 sl Stale white bread
  3 1/2 c  Milk
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs -- beaten
    1/2 c  Sherry
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Seedless raisins
 
  Cut the bread into small cubes (there should be about 2 cups).  Scald
  the milk and add the butter; pour over the bread cubes.  Let soak for
  10 minutes, then blend in the sugar,eggs, sherry, nutmeg, cinnamon,
  salt and raisins. Pour into a 1 1/2-quart butte
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Sweet butter
      1 c  Sugar
      6    Egg yolks
      1 c  Flour -- sifted
      1 c  Cornstarch -- sifted
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Brandy
      6    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
           Confectioners' sugar
 
  Cream the butter; gradually add the sugar, beating until light and
  fluffy. Add 1 egg yolk at a time, beating after each addition.  Sift
  the flour, cornstarch, baking powder and salt into the butter
  mixture; mix lightly and stir in the brandy.  Fold in th
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Candied Sweet Potatoes
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Sweet potatoes
    1/4 c  Butter or fat
    1/2 c  Dark corn syrup
      2 tb Orange juice
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
 
  Cook the unpeeled potatoes in boiling water for 15 minutes.  Peel and
  cut in half lengthwise.  Heat the butter or fat in a baking dish and
  add the corn syrup, orange juice, sugar and sweet potatoes.    Bake
  in a 350 degree oven 45 minutes or until tender,
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      9    Egg yolks
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Finely mashed cooked
           Carrots
      1 tb Grated orange rind
      1 tb Brandy
  2 1/2 c  Ground almonds
      9    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Beat the egg yolks; gradually add the sugar, beating until thick.
  Stir in the carrots, orange rind, brandy and almonds.  Fold in the
  egg whites thoroughly.  Turn into a greased 9-inch spring form pan.
    Bake in a 325 degree oven 50 minutes.  Cool and re
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken A La King
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Chicken fat
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      4 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
  1 3/4 c  Chicken stock
      2 c  Diced cooked chicken
      1    Pimento -- chopped
      2 tb Sherry
 
  Heat the fat in a saucepan; cook the mushrooms in it for 5 minutes.
  Stir in the flour, salt and pepper.  Gradually add the stock,
  stirring steadily until mixture reaches the boiling point.  Cook over
  low heat 5 minutes. Add the chicken, pimento and sher
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Chow Mein
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      1 c  Sliced onions
  1 1/2 c  Sliced celery
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      2 c  Chicken stock
      3 tb Soy sauce
      3 c  Cooked chicken -- cut in
           Strips
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Minced scallions
           Chow Mein noodles
           Boiled white rice
 
  Heat the oil in a saucepan; cook the onions, celery and mushrooms in
  it for 3 minutes.  Add 1 cup of the stock, the soy sauce and chicken.
  Cook 5 minutes.  Mix the cornstarch with the remaining stock and stir
  into the chicken mixture until thickened.  Ad
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Paprika
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Pullet
      3 tb Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 tb Chicken fat
  1 1/2 c  Sliced onions
      1 tb Paprika
      1 c  Boiling water
 
  Have the chicken cut up and season with the flour, salt and pepper.
  Brown the chicken in the fat.  Remove the chicken and brown the
  onions in the fat remaining in the pan.  Return the chicken to the
  pan and sprinkle with the paprika and add the water.  C (recipe
  included in this database). Serves 4 to 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART
  OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books,
  Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A on 03-15-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Cookies
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 40 servings
 
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      1    Egg -- beaten
  1 1/8 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda -- dissolved in
      1 tb Water
      1 ts Hot water
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      6 oz Chocolate bits - (1 pkg)
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Cream the butter and beat in the granulated and brown sugars until
  light and fluffy.  Beat in the egg.  Sift together the flour, salt
  and baking soda.  Work into the butter mixture.  Stir in the hot
  water, vanilla, chocolate bits and nuts.  Drop by the te
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chopped Chicken Livers
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken livers
      4 tb Rendered chicken fat
      2    Onions -- diced
      3    Hard-boiled egg yolks
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Wash the livers and remove any discolored spots.  Drain.    Heat 2
  tablespoons fat in a frying pan; brown the onions in it.  Remove the
  onions.  Cook the livers in the fat remaining in the skillet for 10
  minutes.  You can grind or chop the onions, livers, a smooth mixture.
  Add the salt, pepper and remaining fat. Mix and taste for seasoning.
  Serve cold with crackers as a spread or on lettuce. Serves 6 as an
  appetizer or 12 as a spread.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING by Jennie Grossinger P
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chopped Liver
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Calf's, beef or chicken
           Livers
      2    Onions
      2    Hard-boiled eggs
      3 tb Rendered chicken fat
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Wash the liver and combine in a saucepan with 1 onion and water to
  cover. Bring to a boil and cook over low heat 10 minutes.  Drain and
  discard the onion.  Remove skin from liver.    Grind or chop the
  liver, eggs and remaining onion until smooth.  Blend in the fat, salt
  and pepper. Taste for seasoning.    Serv
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      4 tb Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Cinnamon
 
  Sift together the flour, salt, baking soda and cream of tartar.
    Cream the butter, gradually adding the sugar.  Beat until fluffy,
  then add the egg.  Add the flour mixture, alternating with the milk.
  Turn into an 8-inch-square buttered pan.  Sprinkle with the brown
  sugar and cinnamon. Bake in a 350 degree oven 30 minutes.  Serve
  warm. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH C
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cole Slaw
 Categories: Jewish, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Shredded cabbage
    1/2 c  Grated carrots
      1 c  Thinly sliced green pepper
    1/4 c  Water
    3/4 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Sugar
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Celery seed
    1/4 ts Mustard seed
 
  Toss together the cabbage, carrots and green pepper.    Gradually
  stir the water and vinegar into the mayonnaise. Add the sugar, salt,
  pepper, celery and mustard seeds. Pour the dressing over the
  vegetables and toss until well mixed.  Chill 30 minutes before
  serving. Serves 6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Banta
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn Fritters
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Egg yolks
  1 3/4 c  Canned whole-kernel corn
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Flour -- sifted
      3    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      1 c  Maple syrup
 
  Beat the egg yolks very well; stir in the corn, salt, pepper and
  flour. Fold in the egg whites.  Heat the oil in a skillet and drop
  the batter, by the tablespoon, into it. Fryuntil browned on both
  sides.    Heat the maple syrup and serve with the fritter 6. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey JPMD44Aon 03-18-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corned Beef
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Salt
      4 qt Water
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Pickling spice
    1/2 oz Saltpeter
      8    Bay leaves
      5 lb First cut brisket of beef
      8    Garlic cloves
      2    Onions
      2    Celery stalks
 
  Combine the salt, water, sugar, pickling spice, saltpeter and bay
  leaves in a saucepan.  Bring to a boil and cook for 5 minutes. Cool.
  Place the beef in a stone crock or bowl (not metal).  Pour the cool
  liquid over it and add the garlic.  Weight the meat down to keep it
  covered by the liquid. Cover with a pie
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crescent Rolls
 Categories: Jewish, Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk (or cake) Yeast
    1/4 c  Lukewarm water
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Butter
      4 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3    Eggs -- beaten
  4 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
 
  Soften the yeast in the water.  Scald the milk and stir in the butter,
  sugar and salt.  Cool to lukewarm.  Stir in the yeast, eggs and flour.
  Knead until a smooth dough is formed.  Place in a greased bowl and
  cover. Let rise until doubled in bulk.    Di circle. Cut into 12
  wedge-shaped pieces.  Roll up each piece from the wide end to the
  point. Place on a greased baking pan and pull ends inward to make a
  crescent. Let rise until doubled in bulk.  Brush with melted butter.
  Bake in a 400 degree oven
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cucumber Relish
 Categories: Jewish, Relishes, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5    Cucumbers -- peeled and
           Chopped
  1 1/2 lb Tomatoes -- diced
      2 c  Finely shredded cabbage
      2    Green peppers -- minced
      2    Onions -- minced
  1 1/4 c  Vinegar
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Salt
      1 tb Mustard seed
    1/2 tb Celery seed
 
  Mix all the ingredients together very thoroughly.  Pack into three
  1-quart sterile jars.  Chill for 36 hours before using.    Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc.
    (c) 1958   Recipe formatted
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cucumber Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Cucumbers
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
      2 tb Cold water
      1 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2    Scallions -- sliced thin
 
  Peel the cucumbers and slice very thin.  Sprinkle with the salt and
  set aside for 20 minutes.  Drain well.    Mix together the vinegar,
  water, sugar and pepper.  Add to the cucumber with the scallions.
  Mix well and chill for 2 hours before serving.  Serv
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dill Pickles
 Categories: Jewish, Pickles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     30    Cucumbers
    1/2 c  Coarse salt
      2 qt Water
      2 tb Vinegar
      4    Garlic cloves
      4    Bay leaves
    1/4 ts Mustard seed
      1 ts Mixed pickling spice
     10    Sprigs Dill
 
  Buy even-sized cucumbers and be sure they are very firm. Wash and dry
  them. Arrange the cucumbers in a crock or jar. Bring the salt and
  water to a boil.  Cool; then add the vinegar, garlic, bay leaves,
  mustard seed and pickling spice.  Pour over the cucumbers. Arrange
  the dill over all. The liquid should completely cover the cucumbers;
  if not, add more salted water.  If crock is used, cover with a plate
  or wooden board to weight it down.  Loosely cover with cheesecloth.
  Keep in a cool place for a week. If you like very green pickles, you
  might test one at the end of 5 days. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH
  COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A  on 03-23-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Spread
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 md Eggplant
      3 tb Minced onion
      2 tb Salad or olive oil
      4 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Sugar
 
  Bake the eggplant in a 475 degree oven until skin turns dark brown.
  Cool and peel.    Chop the eggplant until very smooth.  Stir in the
  onion, oil, lemon juice, salt, pepper and sugar.  Chill.  Serve with
  dark bread and wedges of tomatoes.  Serves 4 to 6
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggs Benedict
 Categories: Jewish, Breakfast, Fish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    English muffins
      1 tb Butter
      4 sl Smoked salmon
      4    Eggs -- poached

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2    Egg yolks
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Melted butter
 
  Split the muffins and toast them.  Butter and place a slice of smoked
  salmon on each half muffin.  Carefully place a poached egg over the
  salmon and cover with the following variation of Hollandaise sauce.
  Sauce: Beat the egg yolks until thick; stir in the salt, cayenne
  pepper and lemon juice.  Add 1/2 teaspoon butter at a time, beating
  steadily. When half the butter is used, add the rest a little faster,
  still beating steadily. Serve immediately. Serves 2 to 4. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books,Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey J
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Cakes
 Categories: Jewish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked and flaked codfish
      2 c  Mashed potatoes
      3 tb Melted butter
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Eggs -- beaten
    1/2 c  Milk
           Butter or fat -- for frying
 
  Mix all the ingredients together and taste to correct seasoning.
  Shape into 8 cakes and chill for 2 hours.    Fry in the butter or fat
  until browned on both sides. Serve with hot or cold tomato sauce.
  Serves 4. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKIN
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Sticks
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Sole fillets
    3/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3    Eggs -- beaten
    3/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
           Fat for deep frying
 
  Cut the sole into 1-inch strips.  Add the salt and pepper to the
  flour and roll the fish strips in the mixture.  Dip fish strips in
  the eggs and then roll them in the bread crumbs.    Heat the fat to
  380 degrees and fry the sticks until browned.  Drain and serve with
  catchup or tartar sauce. Makes 24 pieces.
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Toast
 Categories: Jewish, Breakfast
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Light cream
      1 tb Sugar
      4 sl White bread
      4 tb Butter
 
  Beat together the eggs, salt, cream and sugar.  Dip the bread in the
  mixture.    Fry in the butter until browned on both sides.  Serve with
  jelly, syrup or cinnamon-sugar.  Serves 2.    Recipe Source: THE ART
  OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Publi
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Eggplant
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant
      2 tb Lemon juice
  2 1/2 ts Salt
      1    Egg
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 c  Dried bread crumbs
    1/3 c  Fat or butter
 
  Peel the eggplant and slice thin.  Sprinkle with the lemon juice and
  1 1/2 teaspoons salt.  Let stand 30 minutes. Rinse with cold water.
  Drain. Beat the egg, pepper and remaining salt together. Dip the
  eggplant slices in the egg mixture and then in the bread crumbs.
  Brown on both sides in hot fat or butter.  Serves 4 to 6. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A  on 03-18-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Fish
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  White corn meal
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      6    Fish fillets or slices
      4 tb Salad oil
      2    Onions -- diced
 
  Mix the corn meal, flour, salt and pepper together.  Dip the fish in
  this mixture, coating both sides well.    Heat half the oil in a
  skillet. Brown the onions in it. Remove onions and reserve.  Add
  remaining oil to the skillet and brown the fish on both sides. Cover
  with the onions and cook 5 minutes.  Serve hot or cold.  Serves 6.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
    (c) 1958   Recipe formattedfor MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A on 03-14-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gefilte Fish
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Whitefish
      2 lb Pike
      2 lb Winter carp
      5    Onions
      2 qt Water
      4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Pepper
      3    Eggs
    3/4 c  Ice water
    1/2 ts Sugar
      3 tb Matzo or cracker meal
      3    Carrots -- sliced
 
  Have the fish filleted but reserve the head, skin and bones.  You may
  use any combination of fresh-water fish although this combination is
  most popular.    Combine head, skin, bones and 4 sliced onions with 1
  quart of water, 2 teaspoons salt and 3/4 teasp and pepper. Chop until
  very fine; this is important for fluffy fish. Moisten hands; shape
  mixture into balls. Carefully drop into fish stock. Add the carrots.
  Cover loosely and cook over low heat 1 1/2 hours. Remove the cover
  for the last 1/2 hour. Strain the stock over it, and arrange carrots
  around it. Chill.  Serve with horseradish.    You can serve 12 people
  generously but the fish keeps for a few days so you might as well
  make this amount even for fewer people. Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey
  JPMD44A  on 03
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  3 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Cinnamon -- (optional)
    1/4 ts Nutmeg -- (optional)
    1/8 ts Powdered cloves --
           (optional)
    1/2 ts Ginger -- (optional)
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      4 tb Salad oil
      2 c  Dark honey
    1/2 c  Brewed coffee
  1 1/2 c  Nuts, walnuts or almonds
 
  Sift the flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves
  and ginger together.  (The spices depend on your personal taste, so
  add or not, as you prefer.)    Beat theeggs, gradually adding the
  sugar.  Beat until thick and light in color.  Beat i
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Cookies
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Honey
    3/4 c  Sliced almonds
  2 1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Chopped candied fruit peel
 
  Beat the eggs and sugar together until fluffy.  Beat in the honey and
  then the nuts.  Sift together the flour, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg and
  baking soda.  Work into the honey mixture and add the candied fruit.
  Form into a ball and chill.    Roll out as th
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kasha
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Buckwheat groats
      1    Egg -- beaten
  2 1/2 c  Boiling water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  You can buy fine, medium or coarse groats; use whichever type you
  prefer. Mix the groats and egg in a saucepan over low heat until the
  grains separate.  Add the water and salt. Cover and cook over low
  heat 15 minutes. All the water should be absorbed; if not, drain
  thoroughly. Serve with melted fat or butter or use in other recipes.
  Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Ban
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Fish
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Salad oil
      2 c  Sliced onions
      6 sl Pike, salmon, or whitefish
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Tomatoes -- diced
      2    Lemons -- sliced thin
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      2 ts Sugar
      1    Bay leaf
 
  Heat the oil in a deep skillet.  Brown the onions in it. Arrange the
  fish over the onions and sprinkle with the salt and pepper.  Add the
  tomatoes, lemon slices, water, vinegar, sugar and bay leaf. Cover and
  cook over low heat 35 minutes.  Remove bay leaf. Serve hot or cold.
  Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958 Recipe
  formatted for MasterC
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroons
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 72 servings
 
      5    Egg whites
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Almond paste
    1/4 c  White corn meal
 
  Beat the egg whites until stiff but not dry; beat in the sugar.  Mix
  together the almond paste and corn meal and fold in the egg whites.
  Drop by the teaspoon onto a lightly greased cooky sheet; flatten
  slightly with a wet knife.    Bake in a 350 degree oven 20 minutes or
  until delicately browned.  Makes about 6 dozen.    Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jen
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandelbrot
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Flour -- sifted
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Salad oil
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 tb Cinnamon
      1 c  Almonds
 
  The finished cake should be only 2 1/2-inches high so use two 9-inch
  loaf pans for baking.    Sift together the flour, salt and baking
  powder. Beat the eggs until thick; gradually add the sugar, beating
  until lemon-colored. Stir in the oil and vanilla. Gradually add the
  flour mixture, then the almonds.    Co
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meat Cholent
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Dried lima beans
      3 lb Brisket
      3    Onions -- diced
      3 tb Fat
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Ginger
      1 c  Pearl barley
      2 tb Flour
      2 ts Paprika
 
  Soak the beans overnight in water to cover.  Drain.    Use a heavy
  saucepan or Dutch oven and brown the meat and onions in the fat.
  Sprinkle with the salt, pepper and ginger.  Add the beans and barley
  and sprinkle with the flour and paprika.  Add enough boiling water to
  cover one inch abovethe mixture.  Cover tightly. Cholent may be baked
  for 24 hours in a 250 d
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed-Fruit Tzimmes
 Categories: Jewish, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Dried apricots
    1/2 lb Dried pears
    1/2 lb Unsweetened prunes
      3 lb Brisket
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3    Carrots -- quartered
      6 sl Lime or lemon (thin slices)
      2 c  Orange juice
      4 c  Water
      4 tb Honey
 
  Wash the apricots, pears and prunes and soak in cold water to cover
  for 1 hour.  Drain.    Brown the meat over medium heat in a Dutch
  oven or casserole.  Sprinkle with the saltand pepper.  Arrange the
  fruit, carrots and lime or lemon around it.  Mix the o increase heat
  to 400 degrees. Bake 1 hour longer, adding a little water if
  necessary. Serves 6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by
  Jennie Grossinger Publishedby Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958
  Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodles And Cabbage
 Categories: Jewish, Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Salt
      4 c  Finely shredded cabbage
    1/2 c  Butter or fat
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 c  Cooked broad noodles --
           Drained
 
  Mix the salt and cabbage together and let stand 30 minutes.  Squeeze
  out all the liquid.    Heat the butter or fat in a deep skillet.  Add
  the cabbage, sugar and pepper.  Cook over low heat 45 minutes or
  until cabbage is browned.  Stir very frequently.  Add the noodles and
  toss to blend thoroughly.  Serves 6 to 8.    Recipe Source: THE ART
  OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books,
  Inc.       (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for Master
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepper Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Green or red peppers
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 c  Water
 
  Cut the peppers in half, discarding the seeds and fibers. Pierce each
  pepper half with a fork and hold it over a flame or heat until the
  skin browns and blisters.  Rub the skin off, then slice the peppers.
  Combine the salt, pepper, garlic powder, bay leaf, vinegar and water
  in a saucepan. Bring to a boil and
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepper Steak
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Steak
      4 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Scallions or onions
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      5    Green peppers -- thinly
           Sliced
      1 c  Sliced celery
  1 1/2 c  Beef broth
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Soy sauce
           Boiled white rice
 
  Buy thin steak and cut it in narrow strips.  Brown the steak in the
  oil, then add the scallions, garlic, green peppers and celery.  Cook
  5 minutes. Add the beef broth. Cover and cook over low heat 10
  minutes.  Mix the cornstarch, water and soy sauce unti
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Herring
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers, Fish, Pickles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Miltz herring fillets
      4    Onions -- sliced thin
      1 c  White vinegar
    1/4 c  Water
      2 ts Sugar
      2 ts Pickling spice
      2    Bay leaves
    3/4 c  Sour cream -- optional
 
  Wash the herring thoroughly and soak in cold water for 6 hours;
  drain. Cut the herring into 2-inch pieces.  In a glass jar or bowl,
  arrange alternate layers of herring and onions.  Bring the vinegar,
  water, sugar, pickling spice and bay leaves to a boil.  Cool slightly
  and pour over herring. Cover tightly and shake. Place in the
  refrigerator for 48 hours before serving. For dairy meals, the liquid
  may be mixed with sour cream before or after pickling.  This may be
  kept in refrigerator for a week. Serves 6 to 12. Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza
 Categories: Jewish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Hot-roll mix
      4 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Minced onions
      8 oz Tomato sauce - (1 can)
      6 oz Tomato paste - (1 can)
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 lb Swiss cheese -- grated
     10    Anchovies -- chopped
      2 tb Minced parsley
    1/4 c  Dry Gouda
 
  Prepare the roll-mix as package directs and let rise.    Heat 2
  tablespoons olive oil in a saucepan; cook the onions in it for 10
  minutes. Add the tomato sauce, tomato paste, garlic, oregano and
  salt.  Cover and cook over low heat 15 minutes.    When dou
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppy-Seed Candy
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Poppy seeds
      2 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Chopped nuts
    1/2 ts Powdered ginger
 
  Have the poppy seeds ground for you when you buy them. If this is not
  possible, grind them in a food chopper or pound with a mortar and
  pestle. Cook together the honey and sugar until syrupy.  Stir in the
  poppy seeds and cook until mixture is thick, ab if it doesn't run, it
  is thick enough.) Stir in the nuts and ginger. Moisten hands; pat out
  mixture onto wet board to thickness of about 1/2-inch. Let cool 5
  minutes, then cut into diamonds or squares with a sharp knife. When
  knife sticks, dip into
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pot Roast With Vegetables
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      4 lb Chuck or brisket
      2 tb Fat
      3    Onions -- sliced
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
      3    Tomatoes -- diced
      3    Carrots -- quartered
      2    Green peppers
      4    Potatoes -- peeled and
           Halved
 
  Sprinkle the salt, pepper and garlic powder on the meat. Heat the fat
  in a heavy saucepan or Dutch oven and brown the meat in it. Add the
  onions and continue to brown.  Add the water and tomatoes. Cover and
  cook over low heat 2 1/2 hours.  Add the carrots, green peppers and
  potatoes. Cook 30 minutes.  Taste to correct seasoning. Serves 8 to
  10. Recipe Source: THE
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      3 c  Grated, drained potatoes
    1/3 c  Potato flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      3 tb Grated onion
      4 tb Melted butter or fat
 
  Beat the eggs until thick.  Stir in the potatoes, potato flour, baking
  powder, salt, pepper, onion and butter or fat. Turn into a greased 1
  1/2-quart baking dish or casserole. Bake in a 350 degree oven until
  browned, about 1 hour. Serve hot.  Serves 6 to 8. Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe
  Comiskey JPMD
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Latkes
 Categories: Jewish, Pcake/waffl, Potatoes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Eggs
      3 c  Grated, drained potatoes
      4 tb Grated onion
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Cracker or matzo meal
    1/2 c  Fat or butter
 
  Beat the eggs and add the potatoes, onion, salt, pepper and meal.
    Heat half the fat or butter in a frying pan and drop the potato
  mixture into it by the tablespoon.  Fry until browned on both sides.
  Keep pancakes hot until all are fried and add more fat or butter as
  required. Serves 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by
  Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958
  Recipe formatted for MasterCook II
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Muffins
 Categories: Jewish, Muffins, Potatoes
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2    Egg yolks
      3 c  Grated, drained potatoes
      4 tb Grated onion
    1/2 c  Flour -- sifted
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      3 tb Melted butter or chicken
           Fat
      2    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
 
  Beat the egg yolks, then stir in the potatoes, onion, flour, salt,
  baking powder and melted butter or fat.  Fold in the egg whites.
  This quantity makes twelve 2-inch muffins. Grease muffin tin and fill
  2/3 full with the mixture. Bake in a 400 degree oven
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Potatoes, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Potatoes
    1/4 c  Minced onions
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Vinegar
 
  Buy small potatoes and cook them in boiling water about 20 minutes or
  until tender but firm.  Peel and cube the potatoes.  Add the onions,
  salt and pepper.  Mix together the mayonnaise and vinegar; pour over
  the salad. Toss until well blended. Serve hot or cold. Serves 4 to 6.
  Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958   Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-23-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prune Whip
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Jars
    1/2 c  Prune juice
      1 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts --
           (optional)
      2    Egg whites -- stiffly
           Beaten
    1/2 c  Heavy cream -- whipped
           Strained prunes (baby food)
 
  Combine the prunes, prune juice, boiling water, sugar, cinnamon and
  salt. Mix the cornstarch and cold water until smooth and stir into
  the prune mixture.  Cook over low heat, stirring constantly until
  mixture reaches the boiling point. Cook 5 minutes longer, stirring
  occasionally. Cool and stir in the lemon juice and walnuts, if used.
  Fold in the egg whites and whipped cream. Pour into a mold or 8
  individualserving dishes. Chill and garnish with a dab of whipped or
  sour cream. Serv
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Lamb Cholent
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Dried lima beans
      2    Lamb shanks
      2    Onions -- sliced
      3 tb Fat
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Ginger
      3 c  Water
 
  Soak the beans overnight in water to cover.  Bring to a boil and cook
  30 minutes.  Drain.    Brown the lamb and onions in the fat.  Add the
  garlic, salt, pepper, ginger and water.  Cover and cook over low heat
  2 1/2 hours or until lamb and beans are tende
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Kugel
 Categories: Jewish, Rice, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Boiling water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Rice
      6    Eggs
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
    1/3 c  Melted butter of fat
 
  Boil the water, salt and rice in a covered saucepan for 10 minutes.
  Drain. Beat the eggs and brown sugar together until thick.  Stir in
  the rice, raisins and butter or fat.  Turn into a greased baking dish
  or casserole. Bake in a 350 degree oven 40 minutes or until browned.
  Serves 6. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.       (c) 1958   Recipe
  formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe C
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Pudding
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Rice, Puddings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Raw rice
    3/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Boiling water
  3 1/2 c  Milk
      3    Eggs
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
      2 tb Melted butter
           Nutmeg
 
  Cook the rice in the salted water for 15 minutes.  Drain then add the
  milk. Beat the eggs, then add the sugar, vanilla, raisins, butter and
  rice mixture.  Pour into a 2-quart casserole; place in a pan of
  water. Bake in a 325 degree oven 25 minutes. longer or until a knife
  inserted in the center comes out clean.  Serve warm or cold. Serves 6
  to 8. Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Turkey
 Categories: Jewish, Poultry
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     12 lb Turkey
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 lb Unswetened pitted prunes
      1 c  Water
      4 c  Sliced apples
      1 c  Dry bread crumbs
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Season the turkey with salt and pepper.  Cook the prunes in the water
  for 10 minutes.  Drain.  Add the apples, bread crumbs, lemon juice,
  sugar and cinnamon.  Mix lightly and stuff the turkey.  Sew the
  opening or fasten with skewers. Place in a rosting pa
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Newburg
 Categories: Jewish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Light cream
  1 1/2 c  Cubed cooked salmon
  1 1/2 c  Cubed cooked halibut
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Paprika
      3 tb Sherry
      3    Egg yolks
 
  Melt the butter in the top of a double boiler; stir in the flour, and
  gradually add 1 cup of the cream, stirring steadily until mixture
  reaches the boiling point.  Add the salmon, halibut, salt, paprika
  and sherry. Place over hot water and cook 5 minutes
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Rice
 Categories: Jewish, Rice, Tomatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    3/4 c  Rice
      1 c  Thinly sliced onions
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 cn (#2 1/2) Tomatoes
  1 1/2 c  Water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
 
  Heat the oil in a casserole.  Add the rice, onions and green pepper,
  stirring constantly, until browned.  Add the tomatoes, water, salt,
  pepper and bay leaf.  Cover.    Bake ina 350 degree oven 1 hour,
  removing the cover for the last 20 minutes.  Remove b
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sponge Cake
 Categories: Jewish, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Egg yolks
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      6    Egg whites
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Cake flour -- sifted
 
  Beat the egg yolks; gradually add the sugar, beating until thick and
  light in color.  Stir in the lemon juice and rind. Beat the egg
  whites and salt until stiff but not dry. Pile on top of the egg-yolk
  mixture. Sift the flour over the egg whites and fold in carefully.
  Turn into a 10-inchtube pan.    Bake in a 325 degree 50 minutes or
  until browned and free from sides of pan.  Invert and let cool.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger
  Published by Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for
  MasterCook II by:  Joe Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-26-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spring Salad
 Categories: Jewish, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Cucumber -- peeled and
           Diced
      8    Radishes -- sliced
      6    Scallions -- sliced
      1    Tomato -- diced
      1 lb Cottage or pot cheese
      1 ts Salt
      1 pt Sour cream
 
  Lightly mix all the ingredients together.  Serve with buttered rye
  bread. If you like, arrange six portions of the cheese on individual
  plates and flatten down the centers. Mix the cucumbers, radishes,
  scallions and tomato together and place on the cheese. Garnish each
  portion with sour cream. Serves 6.    Recipe Source: THE ART OF
  JEWISH COOKING by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam Books, Inc.
  (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe Comiskey JPMD44A
  on 03-23-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Cabbage
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Cabbage head
      2 tb Fat
      2    Onions -- sliced
      3 c  Canned tomatoes
      3 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Beef bones
      1 lb Ground beef
      3 tb Uncooked rice
      4 tb Grated onion
      1    Egg
      3 tb Cold water
      3 tb Honey
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Seedless raisins
 
  Pour boiling water over the cabbage to cover and let soak for 15
  minutes. Remove 12 leaves carefully; if leaves are small, use 18.
  Heat the fat in a deep, heavy saucepan.  Lightly brown the sliced
  onions in it. Add the tomatoes, half of the salt and pepper and all
  the bones. Cook over low heat 30 minutes.    Mix together beef, rice,
  grated onion, egg, water and remaining salt and pepper. Place some of
  the meat mixtureon each cabbage leaf. Tuck in the sides and roll up
  carefully. Add to the s
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Peppers
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    Green peppers
      2 tb Fat
      2    Onions -- sliced
      3 c  Canned tomatoes
      3 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Beef bones
      1 lb Ground beef
      3 tb Uncooked rice
      4 tb Grated onion
      1    Egg
      3 tb Cold water
      3 tb Honey
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Seedless raisins
 
  Cut a 1-inch piece from the stem end of each pepper and reserve.
  Scoop out the seeds and fibers carefully.    Heat the fat in a deep,
  heavy saucepan. Lightly brown the slicedonions in it.  Add the
  tomatoes, half of the salt and pepper and all the bones.  Cook over
  low heat 30 minutes.    Mix together beef, rice, grated onion, egg,
  water and remaining salt and pepper.    Place some of the meat
  mixturein each pepper and top with the stem end.  Add to the sauce.
  Cover and cook
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-And-Sour Fish
 Categories: Jewish, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Onions -- thinly sliced
      2    Lemons -- sliced
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Seedless raisins
      1    Bay leaf
      6 sl Pike, whitefish or salmon
      2 ts Salt
      2 c  Water
      6    Gingersnaps -- crushed
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 c  Blanched almonds -- sliced
 
  Combine the onions, lemon slices, brown sugar, raisins, bay leaf,
  fish, salt and water in a saucepan.  Cover and cook over low heat 25
  minutes. Transfer fish to a platter.    Add the gingersnaps, vinegar
  and almonds to the fish stock.  Cook over low heat Recipe Source: THE
  ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by Bantam
  Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by: Joe
  Comiskey JPMD44A on 03-14-1995
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-And-Sour Green Beans
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Boiling water
      2 pk Frozen green beans
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      3    Cloves
      2 tb Sugar
      4 tb Vinegar
      3 tb Butter or fat
 
  Combine the water, beans, salt, pepper, bay leaf and cloves in a
  saucepan. Cover and cook over low heat 3 minutes less than package
  directs.  Drain and add the sugar, vinegar and butter or fat. Cook 5
  minutes, stirring frequently.  Remove bay leaf. Serves 6. Recipe
  Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie Grossinger Published by
  Bantam Books, Inc. (c) 1958 Recipe formatted for MasterCook II by:
  Joe C
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-And-Sour Meat Balls
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      4 tb Grated onion
      1    Egg
      2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      3 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Fat
  1 1/2 c  Beef stock
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Lemon -- thinly sliced
    1/4 c  Seedless raisins
      3 tb Sugar
      6    Gingersnaps -- crushed
 
  Mix the meat, onion, egg, 1 teaspoon salt and the pepper. Form
  mixture into 1-inch balls; lightly roll them in the cornstarch. Melt
  the fat in a deep skillet.  Brown the meat balls in it.  Add the
  stock, lemon juice, lemon, raisins and sugar. Cover and cook over low
  heat 35 minutes. Stir in the gingersnaps a
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-And-Sour Red Cabbage
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Shredded red cabbage
    1/2 c  Grated apple
    3/4 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Flour
      4 tb Vinegar
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Butter or fat
 
  Cook the cabbage, apple, water and salt over low heat 15 minutes.
  Mix the flour and vinegar until smooth and add to the cabbage with
  the sugar and butter or fat.  Cook 15 minutes longer.  Serves 6.
    Recipe Source: THE ART OF JEWISH COOKING   by Jennie
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-Potato Tzimmes
 Categories: Jewish, Meats, Potatoes, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Fat
      3 lb Brisket
      4 c  Boiling water
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      8    Carrots -- sliced
      4    Sweet potatoes -- peeled,
           Quartered
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
 
  Melt the fat in a Dutch oven or casserole and brown the beef.  Add the
  water, salt, pepper and nutmeg.  Cover and cook over low heat 1 1/2
  hours. Add the carrots, sweet potatoes and brown sugar.  Cover and
  bake in a 350 degree oven 2 hours, removing the
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veal Goulash
 Categories: Jewish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Veal
      2    Onions -- diced
      3 tb Fat
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 ts Paprika
      2    Green peppers -- sliced
    3/4 c  Canned tomato sauce
 
  Cut the veal in 1 1/2-inch cubes.  Brown the veal and onions in the
  fat. Add the salt, pepper, paprika, green peppers and tomato sauce.
  Cover and cook over low heat 1 hour oruntil veal is tender.  Serve
  with noodles or dumplings.  Serves 4 to 6.    Reci
  
  Recipe By     : Jennie Grossinger  -  "The Art Of Jewish
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: All-American Pie Pastry
 Categories: Pie/tart, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Frozen lard or shortening --
           Cut into bits
      3 tb Ice water
 
  To ensure a tender crust, this recipe should not be doubled.
  Thoroughly freezing the lard or shortening will give you the flakiest
  crust.
  
  PLACE THE FLOUR AND SALT in the bowl of a food processor and pulse 2-3
  times. Scatter the lard or shortening over the flour mixture.
  Sprinkle with the water and process about 5 seconds or until dough
  just begins to form. Shape into a ball, then flatten it
  
  Yield: 1 single-crust 8- to 10-inch pie shell.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond-Poppy Muffins
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Egg
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    3/4 c  Chopped almonds
    1/3 c  Poppy seeds
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. Beat egg, salt and sugar until light and
  fluffy. Add oil in a stream and continue beating. Beat in milk. Sift
  flour and baking powder together several times and add to batter,
  stirring until just mixed. Add nuts and poppy seeds. Bake PETER KUMP
  - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almost Grandma's Sausage And Peppers
 Categories: Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
     12    Hot Italian sausages
      1 md Onion -- thinly sliced
      1 tb Minced garlic
      2    Red peppers -- seeded &
           Sliced
      1    Green pepper -- seeded and
           Diced
      3 tb Tomato paste
    3/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Fennel seeds
           Salt
           White pepper
 
  HEAT THE OIL in a casserole or large skillet and cook the sausage for
  2 minutes on each side. Pour off most of the fat, add the onions,
  garlic, peppers, tomato paste, wine, fennelseeds, salt and pepper.
  Cover and cook over low heat for 25 minutes.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: American-Oriental Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Chicken Stock -- or canned
           Chicken Br
      1 sl Fresh Ginger (2") --
           Julienned
      2 bn Green Onions -- diagonally
           Sliced
           Into 1/2-in pieces
      2    Celery stalks -- cut
           Diagonally
           In
      2 c  Cooked Chicken -- torn into
           Bite-sized
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Hoisin sauce
      1 cn Sliced water chestnuts (8oz)
           Drained
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           Thin slices
 
  PUT THE CHICKEN STOCK in a soup pot and set over high heat. Add the
  ginger, green onions and celery. Bring to the boil, reduce heat, and
  simmer 10 minutes. Add the chicken, soy sauce and hoisin sauce and
  simmer 5 minutes. Add the water chestnuts. Taste fo
  
  Makes 6 to 8 Servings NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus In Its Own Juices
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    3/4 lb Asparagus (medium to large)
      2 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  CUT OFF THE TOUGH BOTTOM END of the asparagus and discard. Peel the
  stalks with a vegetable peeler. Place asparagus in a skillet or
  saucepan just large enough to hold them lying down and barely cover
  with cold water. Add butter and salt and bring to a boil, uncovered,
  over high heat. Stir the asparagus so it will cook evenly. The
  asparagus is done when
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asparagus-And-Emmenthaler Tart
 Categories: Main dish, Masterchefs, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Asparagus (preferably
           White)
      2 qt :boiling water mixed with
      4 ts Salt
      1    (9-in) unbaked pie shell
      3 oz Well aged Emmenthaler cheese
           Coarsely grated
    3/4 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
      2 md Eggs -- lightly beaten
    1/4 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
      1 tb Kirschwasser
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Finely snipped fresh dill
           OR
    1/2 ts -Dill weed
    1/4 ts Ground mace
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Emmenthaler is a dry, aged cheese that accents the flavor of
  asparagus. Serve as the main course of a light lunch or supper.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Snap coarse ends off asparagus stalks leaving
  spears about 3 1/2-inches long. (Save the trimmed-off ends to use for
  soup.) Peel the asparagus spears using aswivel-bladed vegetable
  peeler, lay them flat in a large heavy skillet, pour Cover and cook
  asparagus for about 10 minutes, until very tender. Drain well, return
  to the skillet and shake over moderate heat for 30 seconds or so to
  dissipate any excess moisture. Arrange the asparagus spears like the
  spokes of a wheel over the bottom
  
  JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Avocado, Tomato And Mushroom Salad
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Tomatoes -- (hot-house or
           Beefst
      4    - Plum tomatoes
      2    Avocados; cut in half --
           Seed removed, peeled
    1/3 c  Virgin olive oil
     12 md Shiitake mushroom caps --
           (if using dried mush
           Soak to reconstitute)
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      1 tb Finely minced shallots
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  SLICE THE TOMATO AND PEELED AVOCADO from stem to tip and fan on
  plates. Just before serving, heat the olive oil in a medium skillet
  over medium heat, add the mushrooms and cook, covered, for 5 minutes.
  Add the garlic, shallots, vinegar and salt. Cook, cov
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbara's Applesauce Meat Loaf
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Ground turkey
      1    Egg -- slightly beaten
    1/2 c  Quick-cooking oatmeal --
           (not instant)
    1/3 c  Unsweetened applesauce
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/3 c  Corn kernels (optional)
    1/4 c  Minced red bell pepper
    1/4 c  Minced flat-leaf parsley
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 ts Salt -- or to taste
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 c  Ketchup
      1 ts Prepared mustard
 
  IN A LARGE BOWL, combine the turkey, egg, oatmeal, applesauce, onion,
  corn, red pepper, parsley, 2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce, salt and
  pepper and mix just until the ingredients are blended. Using a
  10-inch non-metal pie plate, form the meat into a ci Combine the
  ketchup, mustard and 1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce in a small bowl.
  Spread it over the top of the meat loaf. Cover the top with wax
  paper, place the dish in the ovenand cook the meat loaf on 100 %
  power (high) for 10 minutes, rotating the pa
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Brisket Of Beef
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  White wine
      3 c  Apple cider
    1/4 c  Honey
      2 tb Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Brown sugar -- packed
      1 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Minced fresh ginger root
      1 tb Whole coriander
      2    Sprigs fresh thyme
      1    Brisket of beef (2-1/2 lb)
 
  COMBINE WINE, CIDER, HONEY, mustard, soy sauce, brown sugar, garlic,
  ginger root, coriander and thyme in Dutch oven or heavy roasting pan.
  Add brisket. Cover tightly and place in oven. Turn oven to 350F and
  cook 1 hour. Remove brisket from cooking liquid, Offer any remaining
  glaze on side.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Hard Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter -- softened
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla -- =OR=- other
           Flavorin
           Rum or Orange liqueur
 
  CREAM BUTTER UNTIL VERY SOFT. Gradually add the sugar until well
  whipped. Add the flavoring; chill before serving.
  
  Makes 3/4 Cup PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer Batter
 Categories: Masterchefs, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 lb All-purpose flour
      1    Egg
      6 oz Beer
           Seltzer water -- to thin to
           Proper consistency
           Salt -- as desired
 
  Use this for onion rings or fried chicken. The thicker the batter, the
  heavier the coating. Adjust to your preference.
  
  MIX EGGS AND FLOUR together, then thin out with beer and then seltzer.
  
  Makes 1 Cup MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer-Batter Onion Rings
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Oil
      2    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Beer
      2 lg White onions -- sliced
    1/4    -in thick
           Oil for deep frying
 
  MIX THE FLOUR, SALT, PEPPER, oil and yolks together. Gradually whisk
  in the beer. Refrigerate the batter 3 1/2 hours to rest before using.
  Slice onions, and dip them in the batter. Deep-fry in 375F oil until
  golden brown.
  
  This batter also works well on other vegetables besides onion
  rings--and it's great on fish, too.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Cheese Toasts With Walnuts
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Roquefort -- =OR=- other
           Blue che
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Cognac (optional)
           Freshly ground pepper
      2 tb Finely chopped walnuts
      4 sl Bread (thin)
 
  Serve these Blue Cheese Toasts surrounding a salad made of finely
  shredded bitter greens--radicchio, butter lettuce, endive--and
  dressed with a walnut oil vinaigrette.
  
  PREHEAT THE OVEN OR BROILER for the toast. Cream the cheese and butter
  together. Add the cognac, if using, season with pepper and stir in the
  walnuts. Toast the bread lightly on both sides. Spread the cheese
  over the toast, then return it to the oven or b Serve warm. Cool,
  juicy slices of pears would make a perfect accompaniment to the
  cheese and walnuts.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Lettuces
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1    Head escarole
      2    Belgian endives
      1    Boston lettuce
      2 tb Minced garlic
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Rosemary
      1 c  Water
      2 tb White wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. TRIM and discard the outer leaves from the
  escarole, leaving the lighter green center. Cut in half from root to
  tip. Trim and discard any discolored outer leaves of endive and
  Boston lettuce and cut them in half from root to tip. Hea
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Morels
 Categories: Side dish, Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Morel mushrooms
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      1 tb Finely minced shallots --
           =OR=- Onions
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sherry or Madeira
    1/4 c  Brandy
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
     12 oz Fresh pasta -- -=OR=-
      8 oz -Dried Pasta
 
  This recipe is good on either pasta or rice. Or, you can fill small
  pie shells with the mixture.
  
  WIPE MORELS CLEAN. Cut larger ones in quarters, leave smaller ones
  whole. Bring 4 quarts of cold, salted water to a boil over high heat
  on the stove. Melt the butter in a medium skillet over medium heat
  and add the morels, garlic, shallots and salt. Cook,
  
  TO FREEZE MUSHROOMS AND SAUCE, fill an airtight plastic freezer bag
  3/4 full and squeeze out excess air. Label and place in freezer for
  up to 3 months. Defrost at room temperature or on the defrost setting
  of a microwave.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breakfast Patties
 Categories: Meats, Breakfast, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Pork butt -- cut into 1-in
           Pieces
      4 oz Bacon -- cut into 1-in
           Pieces
      1 sm Onion -- finely diced
      1 tb Chopped fresh sage --
           =OR=-
  1 1/2 ts -Dried Sage
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
    3/4 ts Mace
    3/4 ts Ground coriander
      2    Oranges -- zest only
      2 tb Unsalted butter
 
  COMBINE ALL INGREDIENTS except butter. If using a meat grinder, fit
  it with a medium die. If using a food processor, put only a small
  quantity in the work bowl at a time and pulsecarefully so the mixture
  doesn't turn into a paste. Repeat until all mixture
  
  Makes 12 to 16 Patties MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Rabe
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Broccoli rabe; washed --
        lg Stems removed
           Finely chopped
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      1 sm Onion -- finely chopped
    1/4 c  Olive oil
 
  Broccoli rabe goes under many names, such as broccoli rape (pronounced
  "rap-ay"), rape and cima di rape. It is a peppery-tasting broccoli
  that works well with roasted or grilled meats.
  
  SAUTE THE GARLIC AND ONION in oil until softened. Add the broccoli
  rabe, saute 2-to-3 minutes, cover and steam 4-to-5 minutes.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Eggplant With Walnut Sauce
 Categories: Vegetarian, Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------WALNUT SAUCE WITH FENNEL-----------------------
      1 c  Walnut meats -- this
           Season's, if possible
      1 sm Garlic clove: (see note)
    1/4 c  Fresh bread crumbs
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water --
           Approximately
      3 ts Walnut or olive oil
    1/4 ts Fennel seeds -- crushed
           Pestle
           Salt and pepper

MMMMM------------------------THE EGGPLAND-----------------------------
           Salt
      4    Rounds of eggplant --
    3/8    -to-1/2-inch thick
           Light olive or peanut oil
           Freshly ground pepper
           Parsley or fennel leaves --
           Finely chopped
           Or
           Left in sprigs
 
  WALNUT SAUCE WITH FENNEL: Put the walnuts, garlic and bread crumbs in
  a food processor and process briefly until everything is the texture
  of fine crumbs. With the motor running, gradually pour in about 1 cup
  of the water. Stop and scrape down the sides,
  
  THE EGGPLANT: If the eggplant is mature with lots of developed seeds
  when sliced, lightly salt the slices and let them sit for 30 minutes.
  Blot with paper towels to draw off bitter juices. If the eggplant is
  light-colored and firm, without the presence of Preheat the broiler.
  Brush both sides of the eggplant generously with oil. Place about 3
  inches from the heat source and broil until golden brown. Turn the
  rounds over and broil until nicely colored and tender. If the
  eggplant looks dry, brush a little more oil over the top. Set the
  broiled eggplants on a platter and spoon a little of the walnut sauce
  over the tops. Season with pepper and garnish with the fennel leaves
  or parsley. Serve hot or slightly cooled.
  
  (NOTE: If you are not planning to use the sauce right away, omit the
  garlic and add it just before you use it. This way the sauce will
  keep well for at least a week, refrigerated) DEBORAH MADISON -
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brussels Sprouts Gratin
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Brussels sprouts
      2 oz Bacon
      1 tb Unsalted butter -- for
           Greasing gratin
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 tb Fresh bread crumbs
      4 tb Unsalted butter -- in bits
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Prepare the brussels sprouts by cutting a thin
  slice off the root end of each and then cutting an X in that end so
  it cooks evenly inside and out. In a largepot of boiling, salted
  water, blanch sprouts until they are crisp-tender, ab Drain, refresh
  in ice cold water, and drain again. (Do not let the sprouts sit in
  water for more than a minute.) Saute bacon until limp, not crisp.
  Drain and coarsely chop. Mix the sprouts and bacon together and
  spread the mixture in a buttered gratin dis
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burnt Custard Pudding
 Categories: Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Milk
    1/2    Vanilla bean -- slit and
           Scraped, -=
      1 ts -Vanilla extract
      4    Eggs -- whole
      2    Egg yolks
      2 tb Flour
    3/4 c  White sugar
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
 
  COMBINE MILK AND VANILLA in a pot, place over high heat, bring to a
  boil and immediately remove from heat. Remove vanilla bean, dry well
  and store in an airtight plastic bag. You can use a vanilla bean
  about 3 times. Meanwhile, combine eggs, yolks, flour Slowly pour
  scalded milk over the egg mixture, mixing all the time. Pour this
  mixture back into the pot and place over medium heat. Cook, stirring
  with a wooden spoon, until the mixture thickens, about 10 minutes.
  Scrape the cooked mixture into a bowl and let cool. When cool, cover
  and place in the refrigerator to chill. Not more than 30 minutes
  before serving, mix remaining white sugar together with brown sugar.
  Divide the custard between 4 soup bowls and sprinkle the surface with
  all the sugar. Wipe the bottom of a 6-inch heavy skillet to remove
  any loose debris and place over high heat.When the skillet is very
  hot, use it to burn the surface of the custard. Car
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burnt-Orange Meringue Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------ALMOND MERINGUE LAYERS------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Whole almonds
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Egg whites
      1 pn Salt
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Almond extract
    1/2 c  Toasted sliced almonds --
           For finishing

MMMMM-------------------CARAMEL-ORANGE LAYERS------------------------
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  Milk
      4    Egg yolks
      2 tb Grated orange zest
  1 1/2 c  Unsalted butter

MMMMM--------------------GLAZED ORANGE SLICES-------------------------
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      1    Envelope gelatin
    2/3 c  Apricot preserves
      2 lg Oranges
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. For the meringue layers, pulse the almonds in
  the food processor until coarsely ground. Place them on a baking pan
  and toast for about 15 minutes, stirring frequently, until golden.
  Cool and combine with the sugar and cornstarch. Red Place on medium
  heat and stir occasionally until the sugar melts and caramelizes. Add
  the milk carefully (the caramel will splatter) and return to a boil,
  stirring to dissolve anyhardened caramel. Whisk yolks in a bowl with
  orange zest and whisk half the
  
  FOR THE GLAZED ORANGES, combine the orange juice and gelatin in a
  bowl. Bring the apricot preserves to a boil over low heat, stirring
  occasionally. Add the orange mixture and return to a boil, reducing
  slightly. Strain and cool slightly. Halve and slice o
  
  ===============   Reply   81 of Note    1 ================= Board:
  FOOD BB Topic:      FOOD SOFTWARE Subject:    Z-MM GUEST CHEF 3 99
  To: BGMB90B ELAINE RADIS          Date:    06/02 From:   BGMB90B
  ELAINE RADIS Time: 5:05 AM MM: CARAMEL PIE
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrots Roman Style
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Carrots
      8 sm Mint leaves
      1    Lovage leaf -- if available
           Several pale inner -- Leaves
           Celery
      2 ts Virgin olive oil
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds
           Salt
  2 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Champagne vinegar -- =OR=-
           White Wine Vin
           Freshly ground pepper
           Finely chopped mint -- =OR=-
           Lovage leaves,
           (f
           For garnish)
 
  SCRAPE THE CARROTS and slice them into pieces 2- to 3-inches long.
  Cut each piece lengthwise into quarters or, if the carrots are very
  large, into sixths or eighths. All the pieces should be about the
  same size. Tear or chop the herbs. Warm the oil with the cumin seeds
  and green herbs for a few moments to bring out their fragrances; then
  add the carrots and toss them in the oil. Add a fewpinches of salt,
  the water, and the vinegar; bring to a boil. Lower the heat
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Casserole Of Salt Cod And Potatoes
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Dried salt cod
      6 c  Boiling water
      1 tb Unsalted butter
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Spanish onion -- peeled and
           Sliced thin
      2 lb Calif. long white potatoes
           Or new potatoes,
           Until tender -- then
           And sliced thin
    1/3 c  Minced parsley
    1/4 c  Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1 lg Egg, hard-cooked -- shelled
           Cut in thin wedges
     12 md Oil-cured black olives --
           (unpitted)
 
  SOAK THE COD in the refrigerator 24 hours in several changes of cold
  water. Drain, rinse, and drain well again. Place the cod in a large
  heavy saucepan, pour in the boiling water,set over moderate heat,
  cover and simmer 10-to-12 minutes--just until the co Preheat the oven
  to 350F. In a large heavy skillet set over moderate heat, warm the
  butter and 1 tablespoon of the oil 1 minute. Add the onion,
  separating the slices into rings, and stir-fry 8-to-10 minutes until
  limp and golden; do not brown. Remove the
  
  JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower With Mustard Sauce
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 md Cauliflower
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
           Salt to taste
  1 1/2 tb Prepared mustard -- pref.
           Dijon or Dusse
    1/2    Lemon (juice only)
           Paprika
 
  REMOVE THE STEM AND LEAVES from the cauliflower. Steam the cauliflower
  whole until it is barely tender. Drain and keep warm. Whip the cream
  and set aside briefly. In a mixing bowl combine the mayonnaise, salt,
  mustard and lemon juice. Whip until blended; fold in the whipped
  cream. Pour sauce over cauliflower or serve it separately.
  Sprinklewith paprika. MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cavatelli With Broccoli And Cream
 Categories: Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
      4 tb Butter
      1    Garlic clove -- finely
           Chopped
      2 tb Marsala wine
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 lb Cavatelli
    1/2 lb Broccoli florets --
           Parboiled
    1/3 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
 
  Cavatelli are small, ear-shaped pasta. This dish is more of an
  American invention than a classic Italian dish, but it's delicious
  just the same.
  
  ADD THE LEMON JUICE to the mushrooms and mix well. Melt the butter in
  a skillet; add the garlic and Marsala. Cook for 3 minutes, then add
  the mushrooms. Cook for 5 minutes more. Add the whipping cream and
  bring the mixture to a boil. Add some salt, then pepper liberally.
  Remove from the heat. Cook the cavatelli al dente. Drain thepasta and
  return it to the pan in which it was cooked. Add the broccoli and
  
  TOM MARESCA AND DIANE DARROW - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Celestial Caramel Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     10 tb Unsalted butter
      2 c  Light brown sugar -- packed
      1 c  Light corn syrup
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Whipping cream
      3 tb Dark rum
 
  This is effortless and a sinfully perfect topping for almost any
  dessert. It keeps for months in the refrigerator.
  
  IN A MEDIUM-SIZE SAUCEPAN, combine the butter, brown sugar, corn
  syrup and salt and slowly bring the mixture to a boil, over
  medium-high heat. Boil until the sugar has melted, about 8 minutes.
  Then boil 2 minutes longer, stirring often with a wooden spoon Stir
  in the cream, bringing the mixture back to a boil and continue to let
  it boil slowly for 2 minutes longer. Pour in the rum, stir to blend,
  then let the sauce cool and thicken. Store in a covered clean glass
  jar. If very cold, remove from the refriger
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheddar-Olive Tart
 Categories: Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lg Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Cream
      4 oz Cheddar cheese -- grated
    1/2 c  Sliced black olives
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Prepared tart shell(s)
 
  You can either bake this in 1 large tart shell or 4 smaller ones.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Beat eggs lightly and mix in all other
  ingredients. Pour into prepared shell(s). Bake 30 minutes for a large
  shell, 20 minutes for smaller ones.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Dill Bread
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    (1-lb) loaf of white bread
           Defrosted according
        pk Directions
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
      2 tb Chopped fresh dill
           Flour -- for kneading into
           The bread -- as needed
      1    Egg -- mixed with
      1 tb Milk or water -- for the
           Glaze
    1/4 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese --
           For topping
 
  ONCE THE DOUGH IS DEFROSTED, knead it along with the cheese and dill
  on a lightly floured work space. Knead until well mixed, adding small
  amounts of flour, as needed, to keep thedough from sticking. Form
  into a log about 9 inches long. Put log on a cooki Makes 1 Loaf
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chez Panisse Pastry Crust
 Categories: Pie/tart, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 c  Unbleached all-purpose
           Flour
    3/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Sugar
      5 tb Cold salted butter
  6 1/2 tb Cold unsalted butter
      3 tb Vegetable shortening
      3 tb Ice water -- plus
      1 ts Ice water
 
  This is a good basic pie crust recipe from Lindsey Shere at Chez
  Panisse. It is flaky and has a good butter flavor.
  
  MIX THE FLOUR, SALT AND SUGAR in a bowl. Cut the salted butter in
  pieces 1/3-inch thick and quickly cut them into the flour mixture
  until it is the texture of cornmeal. You can do this with a pastry
  blender, with your hands by rubbing quickly and lightly Cut in the
  unsalted butter and the vegetable shortening until they are in larger
  pieces, about 1/8- to 1/4-inch in diameter. This helps to make the
  dough flaky. Sprinkle in the 3 tablespoons ice water, tossing the
  dough lightly with a fork to moisten it e During this time, the
  enzymes in the flour will mellow the gluten to permit the water to be
  absorbed completely; this conditioning will help to prevent shrinkage
  and toughness later. Makes enough for two 9-inch pie shells.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Amandine
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Virgin olive oil
      1    Fryer chicken -- cut up
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Blanched almonds
 
  PREHEAT OVEN to 425F. In a 12-inch oven-proof skillet, heat the olive
  oil over high heat on top of the stove. Add the chicken and brown on
  both sides. Add the almonds and cook, stirring, 5 more minutes. Add
  the chicken stock and lemon juice. Sprinkle with salt, bring to a
  boil and place, uncovered, in the oven for 30 minutes, turning once.
  Remove chicken to platt Transfer the skillet to the stove top, place
  over high flame and reduce the liquid on top of the stove until it
  has a shiny consistency. It will look more like a glaze than a sauce.
  Arrange the chicken pieces on a serving platter and scrape the
  almonds an
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken And Mushrooms
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    (3-lb) frying chicken -- cut
           Into serving pie
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      4 tb Olive or vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Chopped onions
      4 tb All-purpose flour
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. Wash chicken pieces and pat dry. Season with
  salt and pepper. In large, heavy-bottomed skillet, heat oil over high
  heat and brown chicken pieces, turning when necessary. Adjust heat so
  that chicken browns quicklybut does not burn. Transfer chicken to
  shallow casserole large enough to hol Scatter mushrooms over chicken,
  re-cover and bake 10 minutes longer or until chicken is tender.
  Sprinkle parsley over top and serve.
  
  MARION CUNNINGHAM PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Salad With Black Beans
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Fermented Chinese blk.
           Beans
      1 lb Snow peas
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      1 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      2 tb Finely minced garlic
      2 ts Finely minced fresh ginger
           =OR=-
      1 tb -Powdered ginger
      4    Chicken breast halves --
           (boned)
      3 tb Salad oil
      2 tb Dark sesame oil (optional)
    1/4 bn Cilantro
 
  SOAK THE BLACK BEANS IN WATER for 15 minutes. Drain and discard water.
  Meanwhile, cook the snow peas in boiling salted water for 30 seconds.
  Immediately drain and plunge into ice water to chill. Drain again,
  dry on a towel, cut lengthwise into thin julien Fan chicken breasts
  around the snow peas. Arrange vegetables around the chicken and
  sprinkle with cilantro.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken, Country Ham And Peas
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Batch Fricasseed Chicken --
           (3-1/2 to 4 lbs reci
           With sauce (See RECIPE)
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 pn Ground cloves
    1/4 lb Virginia ham or prosciutto
           In 1/2-in dice
     10 oz Frozen peas
      1 tb Chopped parsley -- for
           Garnish
 
  PREPARE OR DEFROST 1 batch Fricasseed Chicken. Arrange chicken pieces
  in a casserole or Dutch oven, cover, place in the oven. Turn oven to
  375F and bake for 20 minutes. Meanwhile,place a medium saucepan over
  medium heat; combine fricassee sauce, milk and
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Madeleines
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Grated lemon rind -- OR
      2 ts Grated orange rind
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Salt
    2/3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/3 c  Unsweetened cocoa
      8 tb Butter -- melted
           Slightly -- plus
      4 tb Butter -- softened
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. Smear 1/2 teaspoon softened butter over the
  inside of each madeleine form. Be sure to completely cover with
  butter--don't leave spots. Combine the eggs, sugar and lemon or
  orange rind in a large mixing bowl, and stir them together. Set in a
  pan of simmering water and stir until the egg mixture is very warm to
  your finger. Remove from the heat and beat with a mixer at high speed
  until flu
  
  MARION CUNNINGHAM PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Pudding Pie Filling
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 c  Whipping cream
      2 c  Milk
      6 oz Semisweet chocolate
      2 oz Unsweetened chocolate
    1/2 c  Dried currants
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
     18    Egg yolks
      1 tb Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Prebaked pie shell
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Combine cream and milk in a pot, place over
  medium heat and bring to a boil. Remove from the heat and whisk in
  the chocolates until dissolved. Add the currants. Set aside. Whisk
  together sugar, egg yolks, vanilla and salt in a mixing Pour the
  cream mixture over, stirring. Pour the mixture into a baking dish.
  Cover baking dish with foil, place in a water bath and place in oven
  for 45 minutes. Remove from oven and remove the pudding from the
  water bath. Let cool, then refrigerate until
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate-Walnut Meringues
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      2 c  Unsifted powdered sugar
    1/4 c  Cocoa powder (not a mix)
      1    Jumbo egg white
    1/2 c  Finely ground walnuts -- OR
           Pecans
 
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 300F. Beat all the ingredients together at the
  highest mixer speed for about 1 minute, or mix them in a food
  processor fitted with the metal chopping blade forabout 30 seconds.
  The mixture will be about as thick as fondant. With a stoc The baking
  sheets should be liberally dusted with flour. Bake them uncovered for
  15 minutes. Cool the meringues for about 5 minutes on the baking
  sheets; then, with a spatula, carefully loosen them. Transfer them to
  wire racks. When they are cool, store t
  
  JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coffee Cake With Streusel Topping
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Sugar
      3 ts Double acting baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      2    Eggs

MMMMM----------------------STREUSEL TOPPING---------------------------
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Sugar
      3 tb Brown sugar
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Combine all ingredients in a mixer and mix
  until all ingredients are incorporated. Do not over mix. Pour batter
  into a 9-by-9-inch lightly greased cake pan, and cover with streusel
  topping (RECIPE Follows). Bake about 20 minutes.
  
  STREUSEL TOPPING: PLACE ALL INGREDIENTS together in a mixer and mix
  until crumbled.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn-And-Summer Squash Ragout
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------THE SAUCE------------------------------
      4    Cloves
      8    Peppercorns
      8    Coriander seeds
      1 c  Half-and-half -- -=OR=-
           Mixture of cream & milk
      1    Cinnamon stick -- 2" long
      5    Cilantro sprigs -- chopped
      5    Mint leaves -- chopped
      6    Basil leaves -- chopped
           Or Anise Basil if possible
      1    Jalapeno pepper -- seeded &
           Sliced into small pieces

MMMMM-----------------------THE VEGETABLES----------------------------
    1/2    Onion -- thinly sliced
  1 1/4 lb Summer squash -- (zucchini,
           -patty pan, crookneck or a
           -mixture), cut in pieces
           -1 inch thick
      3    Ears of yellow corn --
           (kernals cut from co
      1 lg Tomato; peeled -- seeded
           -and chopped in 1/2-inch
           -pieces
      1 tb Peanut or safflower oil
           Salt
      2 tb Cilantro leaves -- chopped
 
  THE SAUCE: Bruise the hard spices with a pestle and add them to the
  cream mixture along with the cinnamon, herbs and half the jalapeno.
  Slowly bring to a boil, then turn off the heat and let steep while
  you cut the vegetables.
  
  THE VEGETABLES: Heat the oil in a wide skillet and add the onion.
  Saute briskly for a minute or so; add zucchini, corn, remaining
  jalapeno from above and season with salt. Contin ue to saute over
  fairly high heat for about 5 minutes. The zucchini and onion may
  color slightly. Pour the steeped cream from the sauce instructions
  directly into the pan through a strainer. Add the tomato and simmer
  for several minutes. Simmer until the sauce has reduced and thickened
  a little and the zucchini is done. Season to taste with salt and
  serve garnished with chopped cilantro.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Country Captain
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    (5 1/2-to-6 lb) stewing hen
           =OR=- Capon,
           Cleaned and dressed
      2    Whole bay leaves
      2    Stalks celery (include
           Tops)
      2 qt Water
      2 lg Yellow onions -- peeled
           Coarsely chopped
      2 lg Sweet green peppers; cored
           Seeded & coarsely ch
      2    Garlic cloves -- peeled and
           Crushed
    1/4 c  Olive or other cooking oil
    1/3 c  Minced parsley
      1 c  Dried currants or raisins
      1 tb Curry powder
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Dried thyme -- crumbled
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      2 ts Salt
      2 cn (1 lb -- 12 oz) tomatoes
           With their juice
      3 c  Reserved chicken stock
      1 c  Toasted slivered almonds --
           (topping)
 
  REMOVE ALL BODY FAT from the cavity of the bird, then place the bird
  and giblets in a large kettle. Add the bay leaves, celery and water,
  cover, and simmer 10-to-15 minutes; remove the liver and reserve.
  Re-cover the chicken and simmer 1-to-1 1/2 hours or until tender.
  Lift the chicken from the kettle and cool, strain the stock and
  reserve. In the same kettle, stir-fry the onions,green peppers and
  garlic in the oil 8-to-10 minutes over moderate heat until
  
  Makes 6 to 8 Servings JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  ===============   Reply    8 of Note    1 ================= Board:
  FOOD BB Topic:      FOOD SOFTWARE Subject:    Z-MM GUEST CHEF 1 99
  To: BGMB90B ELAINE RADIS          Date:    06/01 From:   BGMB90B
  ELAINE RADIS Time: 9:12 PM MM: CREAMY RICE PUDDING
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Pie Dough
 Categories: Pie/tart, Guestchefs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/2 lb Butter
    1/2 lb Cream cheese
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Flour
 
  CREAM BUTTER, CREAM CHEESE and vanilla together in a mixer or
  processor. Reduce speed to low and add the flour. Mix until just
  incorporated. Remove the dough from the mixer, form into 3 balls and
  wrap in plastic wrap. Chill for one hour before using. Unco
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crepes Filled With Poached Peaches
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Hearty red wine
    1/2 c  Red raspberry preserves
      1    1" x 3" piece of orange
           Zest
      1    Cinnamon stick
      5    Whole cloves
     20 oz Frozen sliced peaches --
           (unsweetened)
      1 pk Prepared crepes (8-10/pkg)
           Warmed vanilla yogurt -- opt
           Whipped cream -- opt.
 
  IN A SMALL SAUCEPAN, COMBINE the wine, preserves, orange zest,
  cinnamon and cloves and bring the mixture to a boil over high heat.
  Continue cooking until the preserves are melted and the liquid has
  thickened, about 6 to 7 minutes. Strain the liquid into a Add the
  frozen peaches to the liquid and over medium-high heat bring the
  liquid to a slow boil, carefully separating the frozen slices. This
  will take about 3 to 4 minutes. Once the liquid returns to a boil,
  cook until the peaches are just warmed through, JOANNA PRUESS -
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crisp Florentine Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/4 c  Blanched Nuts -- chopped
           (Almonds -- Pecans -OR-
           Hazelnuts
    1/4 lb Candied Orange Peel --
           (store-bought or hom
           Chopped
    1/4 c  Flour
           Azelnuts)
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Heat cream, sugar and salt together. Place nuts,
  candied peel and flour in a food processor with the steel blade, and
  chop coarsely, turning the machine on and off. Stir this into hot
  ingredients and cook until the mixture thickens,
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cucumber And Onion Salad
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 c  Thinly sliced cucumbers
      1 c  Thinly sliced red onions
      3 tb Kosher salt
      1 tb Sour cream
    1/4 c  White wine or cider vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Chopped fresh dill
 
  COMBINE CUCUMBERS, ONION and salt in a colander, place the colander
  on a plate and place in the refrigerator to drain for 3 hours. Rinse
  the cucumbers and onions under cold water and gently blot them
  ("wring them out" in a towel) to eliminate excess water
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Mussels
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     96    Mussels -- scrubbed clean
           And beards removed
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 tb Curry powder
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      1 c  Chopped tomatoes -- (Peeled
           And seeded)
    1/2 tb Chopped fresh dill --
           =OR=-
    1/4 ts -Dried dill
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
           Salt
 
  COMBINE MUSSELS, wine, curry powder, garlic and tomatoes in 3-quart
  pan. Cover and bring to boil over high heat. (If using dried dill,
  add it now.) Uncover, add cream and continueto boil until mussels
  open, about 5 minutes or more, depending on size of mu Discard any
  unopened mussels. Season to taste with salt (and fresh dill, if
  using). Arrange mussels in bowls and pour in broth.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Tuna Salad In Red Pepper
 Categories: Salads, Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Red bell pepper
  3 1/4 oz Chunk light tuna -- packed
           In water or o
           Drained & slightly mashed
    1/2 c  Canned garbanzo beans --
           Drained
      1    2-in piece of cucumber --
           Preferably English
           Hot-house peeled -- and cut
           Into fine di
      3 tb Dried currants
      2 tb Slivered almonds -- lightly
           Toasted
      2    Scallions -- thinly sliced
      4 tb Plain low-fat yogurt
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
 
  CUT OFF THE TOP of the red pepper about one-third of the way down.
  Remove the seeds and membranes from both the top and bottom, and the
  stem from the top. Finely dice the top and put it in a medium-size
  bowl. Add the tuna, garbanzo beans, cucumber, curran
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cynthia's Grilled Beef Tenderloin
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Trimmed beef tenderloin --
           (3-1/2 to 5 lb)

MMMMM---------------------MARINADE AND SAUCE--------------------------
      2 c  Soy sauce
    2/3 c  Dark sesame oil
      6 lg Garlic cloves -- chopped
      2 tb Fresh chopped ginger
 
  PLACE THE TENDERLOIN in a non-aluminum pan. Mix together the soy
  sauce, oil, garlic and ginger, and pour 1/2 of the marinade over the
  tenderloin. Reserve the remaining for the sauce. Cover the beef with
  plastic wrap and marinate overnight in the refrigera
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Delice Aux Noisettes
 Categories: Desserts, Nuts/grains, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    10-in prebaked quiche shell
  1 1/2 c  Hazelnuts
  1 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
      1 pn Cream of tartar
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 tb Vanilla
      2 lg Eggs
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Whip 1/2 cup of the cream in a chilled bowl or
  over ice till soft peaks form, then add the confectioners' sugar and
  vanilla and beat just to stiff peaks. Place in strainer lined with
  cheesecloth and set over a bowl. Place the hazelnu When the syrup is
  a light brown, pour the 1/2 cup of warmed nuts into it and stir with
  a wooden spoon to coat the nuts evenly. Immediately pour them out
  onto the oiled baking sheet. Let cool, 10 minutes, to make nougatine.
  Grind the remaining 1 cup nuts w This will take from 6 to 10 minutes.
  The food processor may have to be scraped down from time to time, but
  the oils must emerge and it must be somewhat like a peanut butter.
  When the nougatine is cooled and hardened, chop it coarsely with a
  knife into pie
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Doree's Extravagant Almond Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Nuts/grains, Guestchefs
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           Unsalted butter & flour --
           For the cake pan
    1/2 lb Almond paste
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Unsalted butter -- at room
           Temperature
      5    Eggs
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      3 c  Unbleached white flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt

MMMMM------------------------FOR GARNISH-----------------------------
           Raspberry jelly
           Whole raspberries
           Powdered sugar
 
  This is from Deborah Madison's "The Savory Way" (Bantam, 1990). When
  the cake cools, slice it horizontally and spread it with raspberry
  jelly or whole, sugared raspberries. Replace the top and dust with
  powdered sugar.
  
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 325F. Butter and flour a 9-inch springform pan.
  Combine the almond paste and the sugar in a food processor and work
  until well blended. Add the butter and continue to process until
  blended; then add the eggs, one at a time, the sour cr Sift the flour
  with the baking powder, soda and salt. Add it to the batter a third
  at a time, gently stirring in each cupful. Turn the batter into the
  baking pan and bake the cake in the middle of the oven until the cake
  is golden ontop and springy to the touch, about 1 hour. Remove the
  cake from the oven an
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Early-Bird Buttermilk Pancakes
 Categories: Breads, Breakfast, Guestchefs
      Yield: 5 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
    2/3 c  Milk
      1    Egg -- beaten
      2 tb Cooking oil
           Oil for pan
    1/2 c  Milk -- as needed for
           Thinning
 
  SIFT TOGETHER THE FLOUR, sugar, salt and baking powder. Beat together
  the buttermilk, milk, beaten egg and oil. Pour the liquid into the dry
  ingredients and stir until well mixed.A few small lumps in the
  mixture will cook out. The first pancake is a test Cook on the second
  side until done.
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy-Glazed Pearl Onions
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 oz Frozen pearl onions
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Beef stock
      4 tb Red wine vinegar
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  RINSE THE ONIONS IN A strainer, just to separate them and remove
  extra ice. Blot them on paper towels. In a large, heavy skillet, heat
  the oil over high heat. When it is hot, add the onions and sugar and
  continue cooking for 5 minutes, shaking often, until the onions are
  lightly colored. Add the beef stock, adjust the heat to medium- high,
  and continue cooking until the liquid is almost completely
  evaporated, a JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Lasagna
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 tb Olive oil
      3 ts Finely chopped fresh
           Oregano
  1 1/2 ts Finely chopped fresh basil
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1    Eggplant -- (12-oz)
           In thick
      1    Zucchini -- (8-oz)
           Sliced 1/2-in thick
      8 oz Mozzarella cheese -- sliced
      1 c  Ricotta cheese -- drained
      2 c  Spaghetti sauce
      2 tb Fennel seed -- crushed
      1 c  Freshly grated Parmesan --
           (imported)
 
  MIX THE OIL WITH THE OREGANO, basil, salt and pepper. Brush it onto
  both sides of the eggplant and zucchini. Lay the eggplant and
  zucchini in single layers on baking sheets. Broil them 2 inches from
  the heat for 4-or-5 minutes or until cooked. Turn, brush the other
  side with the oil, andbroil until the second side is done. Remove.
  Preheat oven to 350F. Place hal
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant Tomato Tart
 Categories: Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Recipe tart dough
      4    Japanese eggplants
    1/3 c  Olive oil
           Salt
           Pepper
      3    Tomatoes
      2    Whole eggs
      1    Egg yolk
  1 1/2 c  Light cream or
           Half-and-half
           Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Basil leaves -- loosely
           Packed
           Thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Guyere or Provolone --
           Grated
 
  PREPARE THE TART DOUGH. Partially prebake it and set it aside.
  Preheat the oven to 450F. Slice the eggplants into rounds or diagonal
  pieces about 3/8-inch thick. Coat a baking sheet with a film of oil;
  then lay down the eggplant slices. Brush the surface
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elizabeth Burris' Broccoli Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Broccoli
    1/2    Red onion -- chopped
      1 c  Sunflower seeds
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Sugar (optional)
    1/2 lb Bacon -- cooked crisp &
           Crumb
 
  CLEAN AND CUT the whole broccoli into small pieces. Use all of the
  broccoli except the end chunks. Mix together the broccoli, onion,
  sunflower seeds, raisins and mushrooms. Make the dressing by mixing
  the mayonnaise, vinegar and sugar. Twenty minutes before serving,
  toss the salad. Toss with the bacon and
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fall Salad
 Categories: Salads, Fruit, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Handfuls chicory greens --
           (hearts of escarole
           Curly endive, raddichio --
           Belgian endive)
      3    Bartlett or Comice pears
     12    Whole walnuts
           Walnut oil (optional)
      4 oz Gorgonzola Dolcelatte --
           Crumbled
     10    Branches chervil or parsley
           Freshly milled pepper

MMMMM------------------------VINAIGRETTE-----------------------------
  1 1/2 tb Pear or champagne vinegar --
           Or to taste
           Salt
      3 tb Virgin olive oil
      3 tb Walnut oil
 
  SEPARATE LEAVES OF WHICHEVER type of green you're using. If using
  escarole or curly endive, use just the pale inner leaves. (Outer
  leaves can be sauteed with garlic and chile-- delicious!) Gently cut
  or tear leaves into attractive pieces, wash and dry the If walnuts
  are really fresh, simply crack them and break them into quarters and
  eighths. If they aren't so fresh, toss them in a little walnut oil
  and toast them at 350F until lightly roasted, about 7 minutes.
  Prepare vinaigrette and use half of it to dress the leaves. Set them
  on salad plates. Dress pears with remaining vinaigrette and settle
  them into leaves. Scatter walnuts over salad along with cheese.
  Garnish with chervil and dust lightly with pepper.
  
  VINAIGRETTE: In bowl, combine vinegar with salt, then whisk in oils.
  Adjust oil or vinegar to get the balance you like. DEBORAH MADISON -
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fennel, Mushroom And Parmesan Salad
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Garlic clove
    1/4 ts Coarse sea salt
  2 1/2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Lemon peel strip -- minced
    1/8 ts Fennel seeds -- crushed
           Under a spoo
           Or
      5 tb Extra-virgin olive oil
      8 oz Mushrooms, large -- firm
           Wiped clean
           Pepper
      1    Fennel bulb
      1 tb Fennel greens -- chopped
      1 tb Italian parsley -- chopped
           Salt
      3 oz Parmesan Reggiano -- shaved
           Into paper-thin slices
           In a mortar
 
  POUND THE GARLIC and the salt in a mortar until completely smooth.
  Stir in the lemon juice, lemon peel, fennel seeds and olive oil to
  make a tart, lemony vinaigrette. Thinly slicethe mushrooms, carefully
  dress them with a few tablespoons of the vinaigrett Trim the fennel
  bulb and cut it into quarters. Remove most of the core; then slice it
  lengthwise, very thinly, leaving the pieces joined together. Dress it
  with most of the remaining vinaigrette and half the herbs, and season
  with salt and pepper. Add the
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fennel-Raisin Round
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Bread flour (or more)
      1 pk Active dry yeast
    1/4 c  Warm water (105F-to-115F)
      1 tb Sugar
      4 tb Butter
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Warm milk (105F-to-115F)
      1    Egg -- lightly beaten
      1 tb Fennel seeds
    1/3 c  Pine nuts
    1/3 c  Black raisins or currants

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1    Egg; beaten -- mixed with
      1 ts Water
 
  Earthy and textured, this is great as a snack or at a party. For a
  party, double this to make 1 large or 2 regular loaves.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. In a food processor or mixer bowl, add 2 1/2
  cups of the flour, sugar, salt, and butter. Dissolve the yeast in the
  warm water. Add the warm milk and yeast mixture. Add the egg. Knead
  to make a soft dough, adding flour if needed. Allo
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettuccine Al Prosciutto
 Categories: Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Prosciutto
      4 oz Butter
      2 tb Minced onion
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 lb Fresh fettuccine
    2/3 c  Freshly grated Parmesan
 
  SEPARATE FAT AND LEAN parts of prosciutto. Chop fat coarsely; cut
  lean into 1/2-inch squares. (If prosciutto has little or no fat,
  simply increase butter by 1 to 2 tablespoons.) Melt butter in a
  skillet. Add onion and prosciutto fat and saute 5 minutes. A Drain in
  a colander but not too thoroughly: leave them a little moist.
  Transfer fettuccine to a heated serving bowl. Toss with entire
  contents of saute pan. Add grated cheese and more freshly ground
  pepper, and toss again. Strew reserved prosciutto on top and serve at
  once.
  
  TOM MARESCA AND DIANE DARROW - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flaky Mushroom Swirls
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 94 servings
 
      2 tb Olive or vegetable oil
  1 1/4 c  Frozen chopped onions
      2 tb Olive or vegetable oil
      1 lb White mushrooms; trimmed --
           Wiped, & finely chop
           (See NOTE)
    2/3 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      2 ts Dried chervil leaves --
           Crumbled
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 lb All-butter puff pastry --
           Defrosted according
        pk Directions
 
  IN A LARGE HEAVY SKILLET, heat 2 tablespoons of oil over medium-high
  heat until hot but not smoking. Add the onions and saute them until
  just limp, about 3 to 4 minutes. Add the remaining oil, then stir in
  the mushrooms. Adjust the heat to high and cook t Flatten each roll
  slightly by pushing gently on the sides so the spirals will be
  oval-shaped, and refrigerate until the pastry is firm, at least 2
  hours. This may be done up to 4 days ahead of time. Preheat oven to
  375F, and line a cookie sheet (or 2 if you have them) with baking
  parchment. Remove the rolls from the refrigerator as you are ready to
  cut them. With a sharp knife, cut the rolls crosswise into 3/8-inch
  slices. Place each oval onto the parchment, leaving 1 1/2 inches of
  space between them. Transfer the pan(s) to the middleof the oven, and
  bake until the tops are lightly browned. With a spatula, tu
  
  NOTE: If using your food processor to chop mushrooms, you will be far
  more successful if you pulse them several times to reach the desired
  consistency rather than let the machinerun. Over-processed mushrooms
  are often watery and will not brown.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Food Processor Brioche
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Active dry yeast
    1/4 c  Warm water (105F-to-115F)
  2 1/3 c  Bread flour
    1/3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Butter -- cool but not
           Hard-ch
      3    Eggs

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1    Egg yolk; beaten -- mixed
           With
      2 tb Water
 
  GREASE AND FLOUR 10 small fluted 1/3-cup brioche tins. Or use 1 3-cup
  brioche pan. Dissolve yeast and a pinch of sugar in warm water. In
  food processor or mixer, add flour and the rest of the sugar. Beat in
  the cool butter. Add yeast and water; beat in the 3 eggs, 1 at a
  time. Beat until shiny and glossy, and Place it in an oiled plastic
  bag or oiled bowl; turn to coat. Seal or cover. Let rise in a warm
  place until tripled. Punch down and let rise again covered, in the
  refrigerator for6 hours or overnight. Take 2/3 of the now-spongy
  dough and, working quickly,
  
  PREHEAT OVEN to 375F. Brush dough with egg glaze. Bake 20 minutes, or
  until browned. For a quick brioche, cover dough in the greased bowl
  with plastic wrap and chill for 1 hour in the refrigerator. Grease
  brioche forms or muffin tins. When dough is chille
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Ginger Muffins
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 oz Unpeeled ginger root
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lemon zest -- with some
           White pith
      3 tb Sugar
      8 tb Butter -- room temperature
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Baking soda
 
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 375F. Grease the muffin tins. Cut the unpeeled
  ginger until it is in tiny pieces; or hand chop into fine pieces.
  (You should have 1/4 cup; it is better to havetoo much ginger than
  too little.) Put the ginger and 1/4 cup sugar in a smal Remove from
  the stove and let the ginger mixture cool. Put the lemon zest and 3
  tablespoons sugar in the food processor and process until the lemon
  peel is in small bits; or chop the lemon zest and pith by hand and
  then add the sugar.Add the lemon mixture to the ginger mixture. Stir
  and set aside. Put the but Beat until smooth. Add the ginger-lemon
  mixture and mix well. Spoon the batter into the muffin tins so that
  each cup is 3/4 full. Bake 15 to 20 minutes. Serve warm.
  
  MARION CUNNINGHAM PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Pinto Beans With Tomatoes
 Categories: Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh pinto beans -- =OR=-
           Other shell Be
    1/4 c  Fruity olive oil
      1    Onion -- finely diced or
           Grat
      2 lg Ripe tomatoes; peeled --
           Seeded and chopped
    1/4 ts Sweet paprika
      1 pn Ground cumin
      1 lg Garlic clove -- minced
           Salt and pepper
           Sugar -- if necessary
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Parsley -- chopped
      1 tb Cilantro -- chopped
 
  SHELL THE BEANS, rinse them off and put them in a saucepan with water
  to cover. Bring to a boil for 15 minutes, then drain and return the
  beans to the pan. Add the oil, onions, tomatoes, paprika, cumin,
  garlic, 1/2 teaspoon salt, some freshly ground pepper and a cup of
  water. Cover and cook over a low flame until the beans are tender,
  about an hour. Taste for salt and add more if necessary. If the
  tomatoes a Turn beans, and their juices, into a serving dish. Garnish
  with the parsley and cilantro.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Potato Puree
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Heads garlic
      2 lb Red potatoes -- small
      3 tb Chopped parsley
      2 tb Butter
           Salt
      8 tb Milk or cream
           Additional butter
           (optional)
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  SEPARATE THE GARLIC CLOVES and remove their papery husks. Slice each
  clove into halves or, if large, thirds. Peel the potatoes (unless
  they are newly harvested), quarter them and slice thinly. Put the
  garlic, potatoes, parsley and butter in a small sauce- Bring to a
  boil, lower the heat, and simmer, partially covered, until the
  potatoes and garlic are soft and the water has cooked away, about 25
  minutes. Pass the potatoes and garlic through a food mill. Don't use
  a food processor or blender as it will give
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic-Cheese Bread
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Long loaf of Italian bread
           Or French bread,
           (about 10 oz)
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter -- slightly
           Softened
      2 md Garlic cloves -- peeled and
           Crushed
      2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
    1/2 ts Crumbled marjoram
    1/2 ts Crumbled basil
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 350F. Using a sharp, serrated knife, cut the
  bread down to--but not through--the bottom crust, making slices about
  1-inch thick. Cream the butter with the garlic, cheese, marjoram,
  basil and pepper. Spread both sides of each slice of b Unwrap the
  bread and serve while very hot.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Genoise Mousseline
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lg Eggs
      3 lg Egg yolks
    2/3 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Cake flour
    1/3 c  Cornstarch
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Place eggs and yolks in the bowl of an electric
  mixer and beat by hand to break up. Beat in the sugar in a stream,
  and place the bowl over simmering water, beating by hand to warm the
  mixture. Beat the mixture by machine on high speed until cold and
  increased in volume. Sift the flour and cornstarch together several
  times and sift them over the egg mixture. Fold in by hand. Pour the
  batter into a buttered and paper-lined 9-inch springform pan a
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gratin Of Turnips And Blue Cheese
 Categories: Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Turnips -- peeled
           And sliced paper thin
      1 md Yellow onion -- peeled and
           Finely sl
      4 tb Melted butter
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      4    Anchovy fillets -- finely
           Chopped
    1/4 ts Nutmeg -- preferably freshly
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 c  Crumbled Roquefort -- OR
           Stilton
           Or
           Other blue cheese
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Toss together the turnips and onion with the
  melted butter and place in a 9-inch square or round baking dish.
  Cover tightly and place in preheated oven for 30 minutes. In a small
  pot over medium heat, combine cream, anchovies, nutmeg
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans With Tomatoes
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Green beans -- =OR=- a
           Mixture of
           And Yellow Wax Beans
      8    Boiling onions -- about an
  1 1/2    " wide
      1 lg Garlic clove -- thinly
           Sliced
      2 tb Virgin olive oil
           Salt
      2 lg Ripe tomatoes -- peeled
           Seeded and chopped
      1 tb Chopped dill or basil
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Water -- -=OR=-
           Juice from the Tomatoes
 
  CHOOSE BEANS THAT ARE BRIGHT GREEN and firm. The smaller ones will be
  less fibrous. Top and tail them, then cut into pieces about 1
  1/2-inches long and wash well. Peel the onions and slice them in thin
  rounds. Warm the olive oil, add the onion, garlic, and cook over a
  gentle heat for several minutes until the onions begin to soften.
  Salt lightly, then add the beans and cover them with the chopped
  tomatoes and herbs. Add several table- spoons tomato juice or wat
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans With Walnuts & Tarragon
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Beans -- (blue lakes,
           Yellows
           Haricot verts)
      1 tb Walnut oil
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Shallot -- finely diced
      1 ts Fresh tarragon -- minced
      4    New-crop walnuts -- cracked
           And broken into quarters
           Salt and pepper
           Tarragon vinegar -- =OR=-
           Champagne vine
           (to taste)
 
  TIP STEM ENDS OF BEANS. Bring 4 quarts water to boil and add 1 1/2
  tablespoons salt. Cook beans in 2 batches until tender but still a
  little firm, then lift out. Lay them on a kitchen towel to dry for a
  minute or so. Transfer to a bowl. Add oils, shallot,
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Peppercorn-Raspberry Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    3/4 c  All-purpose broth -- OR
           Low-sodium chicke
      2 tb Raspberry preserves -- OR
           Frozen raspberry
           Giblets from roasted duck --
           OR from roasted goos
           Roughly chopped
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Green peppercorns in water
           Drained
 
  Raspberries, a member of the rose family, impart a delicious aroma and
  spark of flavor to this creative sauce. It is especially good with
  roast duckling.
  
  COMBINE WINE, BROTH, preserves and giblets in a saucepan and bring to
  a boil over medium heat on the stove. Cook until liquid is reduced by
  about 1/2. Add the cream and continue to cook until liquid reduces
  enough to coat the back of a spoon. Remove from
  
  Makes 1 1/2 Cups MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Cheese-Chipotle Sandwich
 Categories: Sandwich, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 sl White or wheat bread
      2 ts Pureed chipotle chiles
      5 oz Cheese -- shredded or thinly
      1    Ripe tomato -- sliced
           Thinly sliced red onion
           Cilantro leaves -- coarsely
           Chopped
           Soft butter
 
  SPREAD EACH PIECE OF BREAD with thin coating of pureed chiles, or
  more if you like your sandwich really hot. Cover bottom slice with
  layer of cheese, tomato and onion slices and as much cilantro as you
  like. Top with second slice of bread and butter it. Place sandwich,
  butter-side down, in cast-iron skillet. Spread top piece of bread
  with butter as well and cook sandwich slowly. When golden brown on
  bottom, turn it over and cook on the other side. Covering pan will
  help melt cheese bythe time bread is crisped and golden. Eat right
  away with something very col
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Sweetbreads
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 3/4 lb Sweetbreads
      1 ts Powdered mustard
      4 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Pernod (optional)
      2 tb Honey
      1 pn Ground allspice
           Lemon wedges
 
  THE DAY BEFORE grilling, place sweetbreads in a pot of cold water,
  place over high heat on the stove and bring to a boil. Immediately
  drain the sweetbreads and rinse them in cold water. Trim any fat and
  membrane. Prepare the marinade. Combine mustard, soy sauce, Pernod,
  honey and allspice in a bowl or plastic bag and mix well. Place the
  sweetbreads in the marinade, cover and place in the refrigerator
  overnight. Light a grill or preheat a broiler. Place the sweetbr
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Tofu Sandwiches
 Categories: Vegetarian, Sandwich, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    1-in slabs marinated tofu
      4 sl White or whole wheat bread
           Mayonnaise
           Horseradish to taste
      1 lg Tomato -- sliced
           Salt and pepper
           Lettuce
           Thinly sliced red onions --
           (optional)
 
  Be sure to use the firm, Chinese-style tofu rather than the soft or
  regular tofu. It tastes best after it has been marinated for several
  days.
  
  PREPARE A FIRE if you are grilling the tofu, and grill it on both
  sides, about 6 inches above the coals, until it is well-browned and a
  little crispy. Otherwise, broil the tofu on both sides. Spread the
  bread with mayonnaise and horseradish to taste. Slice the tofu in
  half, crosswise, to make pieces 1/2-inch thick, and cut the pieces to
  fit the bread. Arrange the tomato slices on the tofu, and salt and
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Butter For Fish
 Categories: Seafood, Salsa/sauce, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Chopped tarragon
      1 ts Chopped thyme (or dbl. amt
      1 ts Chopped dill
      1 ts Salt -- or more to taste
      1 ts Ground white pepper -- or
           More
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      2 tb Lemon juice
      6 tb Butter -- room temperature
 
  Serve this with any grilled or baked fish. Bake fish in a 500F oven or
  under a broiler, allowing 5 minutes per 1/2 inch of thickness.
  
  PLACE ALL INGREDIENTS in a blender and blend until butter is smooth.
  Scrape into a bowl and offer at room temperature for dolloping over
  fish.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homemade Mayonnaise
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg yolk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dijon mustard -- (or more to
           Taste)
      1 tb Lemon juice -- =OR=- White
           Wine Vin
      1 c  Light olive oil -- -=OR=-
           Oil or vegetable oil
           Hot water
 
  QUICKLY BRING THE EGG to room temperature by setting it in a bowl of
  hot water for 2-or-3 minutes, or until the egg no longer feels
  chilled when held in your hand. Then separate out the yolk. Combine
  the egg yolk, salt, mustard and lemon juice or vinegar
  
  Makes 1 1/2 Cups DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Mustard-Soy Vinaigrette
 Categories: Salads, Salsa/sauce, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Honey mustard
      2 tb Soy sauce
      6 tb White wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
      3 tb Chopped fresh dill --
           Optional
 
  Serve this with shredded Savoy cabbage, thinly sliced zucchini and
  diced tomatoes, or with any other salad you think it will work in.
  
  IN A MEDIUM-SIZE BOWL, blend the honey mustard, soy sauce and vinegar
  until smooth. Whisk in the oil in a slow, steady stream. Add the
  dill, if desired.
  
  Makes 1 1/2 Cups JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey-Mint Lemonade
 Categories: Beverages, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Honey
      4    Sprigs fresh mint
      1 c  Fresh lemon juice
           Sugar
           Ice
 
  COMBINE WATER AND HONEY in saucepan and bring to boil over high heat.
  Remove from heat. Add mint and let cool. Pour liquid through strainer
  into pitcher and discard mint. Add lemon juice. Taste and add sugar
  to desired sweetness. Chill. To serve, fill gla
  
  Makes 1 Quart MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey-Raisin Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Vegetable shortening
    1/3 c  Liquid honey
      2    Eggs
  1 1/4 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Seedless raisins
    1/4 ts Vanilla
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Cream the shortening and honey thoroughly. Add
  the eggs and beat until well mixed. Sift together the flour, nutmeg,
  baking powder, soda and salt, then stir into the honey mixture. Stir
  in raisins and vanilla. Drop the batter by tablespoonfuls onto
  greased cookiesheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake for 12 minutes or
  until golden brown. Cool the cookies for about a minute on the baking
  sheets, then lift to wire racks to cool.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hopping John Vinaigrette
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Dried black-eyed peas
      1    Piece of fatback -- or salt
           Pork
      1    Hot red pepper
      2 md Onions -- chopped
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1 c  Uncooked rice
      4 tb Drippings -- preferably
           Bacon

MMMMM------------------------VINAIGRETTE-----------------------------
    1/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      1 c  Peanut oil
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil
      4 sl Bacon -- crisply fried &
           Crumbled
 
  Hopping John is a traditional Southern New Year's dish. This is a
  modern salad version.
  
  PLACE BLACK-EYED PEAS in a large pot, cover with water and add 3 cups
  more water. Add fatback or salt pork, slashed in several places, hot
  red pepper, half the onion, salt and pepper. Bring to a boil, cover,
  reduce the heat and simmer until the peas are t Remove the fatback
  and hot pepper. Add rest of chopped onion. Make a vinaigrette of red
  wine vinegar, dijon mustard and peanut oil. Add salt and pepper.
  Combine with the Hopping John, add chopped fresh basil and bacon,
  crisply fried and crumbled.
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot White Chocolate
 Categories: Beverages, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 lb White chocolate
    1/4 c  Brandy or rum
    1/4 ts Vanilla extract
      2    Egg yolks
      1 pt Milk
 
  PLACE CHOCOLATE, BRANDY and vanilla in the top of a double boiler
  filled with boiling water, place over medium heat and cook until
  chocolate is melted. Remove from heat, but leavemelted chocolate in
  the double boiler. Add the yolks and mix until incorpora Meanwhile,
  place milk in a small pot over medium heat and scald it. Immediately
  remove from heat and slowly pour over the melted chocolate, stirring
  constantly. Pour into mugs and serve immediately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: How To Cook A Duck
 Categories: Poultry, Information, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Duckling -- (4- to 5-lb)
      1 tb Kosher salt
      1 ts Ground black pepper
 
  REMOVE ANY GIBLETS from the cavity of the bird and reserve. Remove
  any fat deposits from the cavity and cut off excess skin around the
  neck. Rinse the bird under cold running water and pat dry. Sprinkle
  the cavity with salt and pepper. Sever the wing tips Strain the
  steaming liquid into a container, cool and place in the refrigerator.
  When chilled, remove the fat and pack into containers, discarding any
  water. Place in the refrigerator until ready to cook, or in the
  freezer for up to 1 year. Use the fat for frying and sauteeing. Place
  the bird on its side in a roasting pan, add reservedgiblets, neck and
  wings, place in the oven and turn oven temperature to 350F After
  about 15 minutes, turn birds on the other side and cook an additional
  10 minutes. Turn the bird breast up and cook another 20 minutes,
  basting the bird as it renders fat. Inall, cook about 9 minutes per
  pound or about 45 minutes for a 5-lb duck, abo Remove any trussing
  and serve with sauce.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jean's Sweet And Sour Pork
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Lean boneless pork
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 tb Light soy sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 sm Green bell pepper
      1 sm Red bell pepper
      1    Carrot
      2    Scallions
      1    Egg -- beaten
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 c  Oil -- preferably peanut
      3 oz Canned lychees, drained --
           OR
      1    -fresh orange in segments

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    2/3 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Light soy sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Chinese white rice vinegar
           Or cider vinegar
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Water
 
  This is not the traditional Chinese version, but this slightly
  sweeter dish is the way you'll find it in this country.
  
  CUT PORK INTO 1-INCH cubes; put into a bowl with the rice wine or
  sherry, soy sauce and salt. Marinate for 20 minutes. Cut the green
  and red peppers into 1-inch squares. Peel andcut the carrot and
  scallions into 1-inch chunks. Bring a pot of water to a bo Stir this
  mixture into the sauce and bring it back to a boil. Turn the heat
  down to a simmer. Add lychees or oranges and pork cubes. Mix well,
  and then turn the mixture onto a platter. Serve at once.
  
  JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ken's Tomato Egg Drop Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 qt Chicken stock
      2 md Fresh tomatoes -=OR=-
      1 c  -drained -- canned tomatoes
      2 sm Eggs
    1/2 ts Sesame oil
      2 ts Light soy sauce
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Finely chopped scallions --
           White part only
           (reserve tops for garnish)
 
  Egg Drop Soup is traditionally Chinese. Tomatoes are not. They were
  introduced less than 100 years ago, but nevertheless, they work
  wonderfully in this soup.
  
  PUT THE CHICKEN STOCK into a pot and bring to a simmer. If using fresh
  tomatoes, peel, seed and cut into 1-inch cubes. If using canned
  tomatoes, chop them into small chunks. Lightly beat the eggs, then
  combine them with sesame oil in a small bowl. Add the (Stirring the
  egg in a "figure 8" works well.) Garnish with the finely chopped
  scallion tops.
  
  Makes 4 to 6 Servings KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb And Artichoke Chili
 Categories: Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2    Recipe chili base -- (See
           RECIPE)-
      1    Lemon
      4 lg Artichokes
      1 lb Boneless lamb shoulder --
           Cut into 1/2-in stri
      2 tb Finely minced garlic
    1/4 c  Fresh lime juice
      1 c  Chicken stock -- =OR=-
           Low-sodium bro
           Salt -- as desired
    1/2 bn Cilantro leaves -- chopped
     12    Corn tortillas
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  PREPARE OR DEFROST the chili base. Combine water and the juice of 1
  lemon in a 2-quart pot. Keep the lemon for rubbing the cut surfaces
  of the artichokes as you work. Cut the stems off the artichoke. Trim
  the tops, leaving a base about 1 1/2-inches deep a Add the lamb and
  saute, stirring, 5 minutes. Reduce the heat, add the artichokes and
  garlic and cook another 5 minutes. Add the chili base, lime juice and
  stock. Cover and place in oven for 1 hour. Taste for salt. Arrange
  the chili in a covered dish, or s
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Cheeseburgers
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Lamb stew meat
    1/4 lb Bacon
      4    Hamburger buns
      4 tb Roquefort (heaping measure)
           =OR=- Blue cheese
           Mustard
           Mayonnaise
 
  COARSELY CHOP THE BACON. Pass both bacon and lamb through a meat
  grinder fitted with a medium cutter. Scrape into a bowl, mix well and
  form into 4 patties. Place in the refrigerator, covered, to chill for
  20 minutes. Heat a large heavy skillet to almost smoking. Add the
  patties, reduce heat to medium and cook 3 minutes. Turn and continue
  to cook 2 minutes more. Place a tablespoon dollop of cheese on each
  patty, cover and cook another 1-to-2 minutes. Remove the patties from
  the heat and place on hamburger buns. Serve immediately and offer
  mustard and mayonnaise.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Hash And Poached Eggs
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      2    Celery stalks -- finely
           Diced
      1 md Onion -- finely diced
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Finely minced cooked lamb
      2 md Potatoes
    1/2 ts Salt
           Ground black pepper
     12    Poached eggs
 
  MELT 2 TABLESPOONS BUTTER in a small saucepan over medium heat, add
  the celery and onion and cook, stirring often, for 5 minutes.
  Sprinkle with flour, and cook, stirring constantly, another minute.
  Remove from heat and scrape mixture into a mixing bowl to
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Persillade
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh
           Parsley
      1 tb Minced garlic
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
      1 tb Dijon mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Melted butter
      2    6-bone rack of lamb
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Mix ingredients together to form a crumbly
  paste. Roast the racks of lamb until they are very rare, about 10
  minutes, then spread the crumb mixture over the lamb and press it in
  firmly. Replace in the oven and cook to desired donenes
  
  Makes 1 Rack MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Leg Of Lamb W/ Rice And Onion Puree
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Bone-in leg of spring lamb
      5    Garlic cloves; peeled -- cut
           Into 1/4-in sliv
      2 tb Olive oil
     10 md Onions -- finely sliced
    1/2 tb Chopped fresh thyme leaves
           =OR=-
      1 ts -Dried thyme
    1/2 tb Salt -- or as desired
           White pepper
      2 c  Cooked rice
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      1 ts Nutmeg -- freshly ground
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. Trim excess fat from the outside of the leg,
  leaving only a thin layer. Using a small knife, poke holes in the
  meat and stuff in slivers of garlic. Rub the surface of the lamb with
  olive oil. Mound onions and thyme in the middle of a roasting pan.
  Sprinkle the lamb with salt and pepper and place it, fat side down,
  on the onions. Place in the oven, reduce heat to 350F and roast 1
  hour. Turn the lamb fat side up and return to the oven. Roast ano
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Semolina Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 84 servings
 
      2 lg Lemons
    1/2 lb Unsalted butter
    1/4 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1    Egg
      3 c  Semolina
      1 c  All-purpose flour
           -
    1/4 c  Sugar
           TO DUST THE COOKIES-----
 
  USING A GRATER, grate lemon peels, removing only the yellow part.
  Place the grated peel in a mixing bowl. Squeeze the lemon juice and
  set aside in a small bowl. Combine the butter, vanilla, sugar and
  salt in an electric mixer fitted with a paddle, if you have one, and
  beat together at medium speed until creamy. Add the egg, 1/2 cup
  lemon juice and grated rind and beat until incorporated. Reserve any
  extra lemon j
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Working on a marble or wooden surface, unwrap
  the dough log and cut into rounds about 1/2-inch thick. Sprinkle each
  round with a little sugar and lightly flatten the rounds with a
  rolling pin. Place the rounds on an unbuttered cookie The cookies
  will be chewy at first, but will harden as they cool.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Poppy Muffins
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Egg
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Flour
      1 tb Baking powder
      2    Lemons -- grated zest only
    1/3 c  Poppy seeds
 
  This recipe was developed by Richard Simpson, pastry instructor at
  the New York Cooking School.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. Beat egg, salt and sugar until light and
  fluffy. Add oil in a stream and continue beating. Beat in milk. Sift
  flour and baking powder together several timesand add to batter. Add
  lemon zest and poppy seeds. Beat until thoroughly mixe Bake in
  greased muffin tins for 20-25 minutes.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Liang Ban Rou (Twice-Cooked Pork)
 Categories: Meats, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Fresh bacon or pork belly
      6    Whole scallions
      6 sl Fresh ginger
      1 tb Salt
      6    Scallions
      3 tb Peanut oil
      2 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 tb Minced peeled fresh ginger
  1 1/2 tb Chili bean sauce
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
 
  ADD TO LARGE POT of boiling water: bacon or pork belly, scallions,
  ginger, salt. Cover tightly; simmer for 1 1/2 hours. Remove meat with
  slotted spoon and drain well. Discard liquid. When bacon or pork
  belly has cooled, cut it into thin 1/4-inch slices. C
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linzer Augen (Linzer Eyes)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      6 oz Unsalted butter
      4 oz Sugar
      4 oz Ground blanched almonds
      8 oz Unbleached all-purpose
           Flour

MMMMM-------------------------FINISHING------------------------------
      1    Egg -- beaten
           Blanched sliced almonds
     12 oz Apricot or raspberry jam
      2 oz Water
           Confectioners' sugar
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Beat the butter until light and soft, then beat
  in the sugar. Continue beating until very light. Stir in the almonds,
  then the flour. Scrape dough onto a piece of plastic wrap, flatten
  and wrap. Chill until firm, about 1 hour. Flour dough and surface
  very lightly and roll dough 1/4-inch thick. Cut into 3-to-4-inch
  rounds with a fluted cutter. Transfer to paper-lined pans and cut a
  1-inch opening in half the rounds with a plain cutter. Paint the cut
  rounds with beaten egg and strew with the sliced almonds. Bake the
  bases about 15 minutes, keeping them very pale. Cool the bases.
  Combine the jam
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linzer Torte
 Categories: Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------LINZER DOUGH-----------------------------
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Ground -- blanched almonds
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Baking powder
    3/4 c  Butter
      1 ts Grated lemon zest
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1    Egg
      1    Egg yolk

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Raspberry preserves
      2    Baskets fresh raspberries
    1/3 c  Toasted -- sliced almonds
           Confectioners' sugar

MMMMM-------------------------VARIATION------------------------------

MMMMM--------------------CHEESE LINZER TORTE-------------------------

MMMMM-----------------------CHEESE FILLING----------------------------
      1 lb Cream cheese -- room
           Temperature
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ts Grated lemon zest
      2    Eggs
      2    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Cream
 
  FOR THE LINZER DOUGH: Preheat oven to 350F with rack in center. Mix
  all the dry ingredients in a bowl. Rub in butter finely by hand.
  Whisk lemon zest and vanilla with egg and yolkand stir into dough
  with a fork--the dough will be very soft. Butter a 12-in
  
  RASPBERRY FILLING: Spread the preserves in the tart shell and arrange
  the raspberries on the preserves. Edge with the almonds and dust
  lightly with the confectioners' sugar.
  
  CHEESE VARIATION: Do not bake shell. Beat cream cheese with a hand
  mixer set at medium speed or with a heavy-duty mixer fitted with the
  paddle. Beat in sugar and continue beatinguntil smooth, adding
  remaining ingredients in order, scraping bowl and beater
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lobster Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Pork -- coarsely ground
      2 tb Peanut oil
  1 1/2 tb Fermented black beans
      2 tb Coarsely chopped garlic
      1 ts Finely chopped fresh ginger
      2    Scallions -- finely chopped
  1 1/2 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Chinese rice wine -- =OR=-
           Dry sherry
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 pn Salt
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Cornstarch -- dissolved in
      2 tb Chicken broth -- (cold)
      1    Egg -- beaten with
      2 ts Sesame oil
 
  BROWN THE GROUND PORK in 2 tablespoons of oil. Add the rest of the
  sauce ingredients. Bring them to a boil and add the cornstarch to
  thicken the sauce lightly. Turn off the heat. Stir in the beaten egg,
  pulling the clumps of egg into thin strands with chopsticks as they
  cook.
  
  Makes 3 Cups KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Long Jing Chao Xia
 Categories: Seafood, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Med-sized raw shrimp
      2 ts Salt
      1 tb Long Jing (Dragon Well) tea
           =OR=- any Chinese gr
      1 c  Boiling water
  1 1/2 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
 
  IF THE SHRIMP ARE UNPEELED, peel them by removing their shell, legs
  and tail. Devein them by making a surface cut down the back of the
  shrimp and removing the black, green or yellow matter. Rinse them
  well under cold running water and pat them thoroughly
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Madeira Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Madeira
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 c  Chicken stock -- OR
           Low-sodium chicke
    1/4 c  Cream
      2 tb Butter
           Salt and pepper -- to taste
 
  Here's a simplified recipe for Madeira Sauce. Serve it with roast
  meat, such as Beef Wellington.
  
  COMBINE MADEIRA, THYME AND STOCK in a saucepan over medium heat and
  cook until reduced by about half. Add the cream and continue to cook
  until the liquid becomes saucelike. Remove from the heat, beat in the
  butter and add salt and pepper. Makes 1/2 Cup MICHAEL ROBERTS -
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Madeleines
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 c  Unsalted butter
  2 1/2 c  Powdered sugar -- sifted
      4    Eggs
      1 pn Salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Orange extract
      2 c  All-purpose flour
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Lightly grease madeleine molds. In an electric
  mixer, cream butter until smooth and add sugar until incorporated.
  Add the eggs 1 at a time, then add salt, vanilla extract and orange
  extract. Add the flour and mix until incorporated. Spoon about 1 1/2
  teaspoons batter into each mold. Place in oven and bake 15 minutes or
  until lightly browned. Remove from oven and remove from the molds.
  Let madeleines cool on a rack.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Madison's Tart Dough
 Categories: Pie/tart, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Unbleached white flour
    3/8 ts Salt
      4 tb Cold unsalted butter -- cut
           Into small cubes
  1 1/2 tb Solid vegetable shortening
  2 1/2 tb Ice water -- more if
           Necessary
 
  This versatile dough can be the basis for either fruit or meat pies.
  The recipe comes from Deborah Madison's "The Greens Cookbook"
  (Bantam, 1987).
  
  COMBINE THE FLOUR AND SALT in a bowl; then add the butter and
  shortening. With your hands, work the fat and flour together, sliding
  and flattening the mixture between your palms,or thumb and
  fingertips, until the butter and shortening are evenly distribut
  
  Makes 1 9-Inch Pie or Tart DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS
  COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinade For Shellfish
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 ts Coarse (kosher) salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground white pepper
      1 pn Cayenne pepper -- -=OR=-
    1/4 ts -Tabasco sauce
      1    Garlic clove -- finely
           Minced
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Olive oil
 
  Try this marinade for shellfish you wish to barbecue.
  
  COMBINE ALL INGREDIENTS and pour over shrimp or scallops in a
  non-reactive container, such as a glass pie plate. Makes enough for
  about 1 1/2 pounds cleaned weight. Marinate 1 hour and baste with
  marinade several times while grilling. NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST
  CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Michael's Braised Ribs
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------BRAISING SAUCE----------------------------
      1 lg Onion -- finely minced
      1 md Carrot -- finely minced
      1    Celery stalk -- finely
           Sliced
      1 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Tomato paste
      6 lb Baby back ribs
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      4 c  All-purpose stock -- OR
           Low-sodium chicke
      3    Bay leaves
      1    Sprig fresh thyme -- -=OR=-
    1/2 ts -Dried thyme

MMMMM-----------------------BARBEQUE RIBS----------------------------
      6 lb Braised baby back ribs
           Braising liquid from ribs
      1 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
      2 tb Catsup
      1 tb Dry mustard
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
 
  BRAISING SAUCE: Preheat oven to 350F. Mix onions, carrots, celery,
  garlic and tomato paste together and then place in a roasting pan
  large enough to comfortably hold the ribs in asingle layer. Lay the
  ribs on top and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add sto
  
  TO FREEZE RIBS: Pour the liquid into a small freezer container and
  place in refrigerator to cool for 1 hour. When cool, remove and
  discard any fat that has congealed on the surface of the liquid.
  Cover tightly and place in freezer for up to 3 months. Wrap
  
  BARBECUE RIBS: TO BARBECUE THE RIBS: Preheat oven to 375F or light a
  charcoal grill. Defrost the braising liquid. Defrost the ribs or not;
  it's not important. Combine the sugar and vinegar in a 1-quart pot
  and place over medium heat on top of the stove. Cook until the
  vinegar reduces and forms a syrup with the sugar, about 8 minutes.
  Watch carefully as the syrup will suddenly darken in color.
  Immediately add th
  
  TO COOK RIBS IN THE OVEN, place ribs in a roasting pan, cover, place
  in oven and turn temperature to 350F. Cook for 30 minutes, basting
  with more barbecue sauce every 10 minutes. =============== Reply 25
  of Note 1 ================= Board: FOOD BB Topic: FOOD SOFTWARE
  Subject: Z-MM GUEST CHEF 6 99 To: BGMB90B ELAINE RADIS Date: 06/02
  From: BGMB90B ELAINE RADIS Time:     2:11 PM MM: MICHAEL'S CAESAR
  DRESSING
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Michael's Caesar Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg
      1 ts Minced garlic -- more to
           Taste
    1/4 ts Ground white pepper
      6    Anchovy fillets
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      3 tb Grated Parmesan cheese --
           =OR=- Romano cheese
    3/4 c  Olive oil
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Freshly squeezed lemon
           Juice
 
  BRING SOME WATER TO A BOIL in a small pot over high heat and cook the
  egg exactly 2 minutes. Remove the egg and break it into a blender or
  food processor, scraping out any congealed white. Add the garlic,
  pepper, anchovy fillets, Worcestershire and cheese
  
  Makes 1 1/2 Cups MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Midwestern Chili
 Categories: Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4 md Yellow onions -- peeled &
           Coarsely ch
      3    Garlic cloves -- peeled and
           Crushed
    1/4 c  Olive or other cooking oil
      1 ts Oregano
      2    Bay leaves -- crumbled
      2 lb Ground beef
    1/4 c  Chili powder
      1 cn Tomatoes (1-lb -- 12-oz)
           (do not drain)
      3 cn Red kidney beans(1-lb --
      4    Oz)
           (do not drain)
      2 ts Salt
      3 tb Cider vinegar
    1/8 ts Crushd hot red chile peppers
           (or more to taste)
 
  SAUTE ONIONS AND GARLIC in the oil in a large, heavy kettle over
  moderate heat, stirring occasionally, 10 minutes until golden. Add
  oregano, bay leaves and beef and saute, breaking up meat, 10 minutes
  until beef is no longer pink. Add 2 tablespoons chili
  
  Makes 10 to 12 Servings JEAN ANDERSON PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed Greens And Herbs With Cumin
 Categories: Vegetables, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 c  Mixed greens -- such as
           Mustard, Arugula --
           Watercress, Dandelio
           Kale, Spinach, Chard --
           Escarole or others
      4 lg Garlic cloves
           Salt
      2 lg Handfuls Italian parsley --
           (leaves), chopped fi
      1    Handfuls cilantro leaves --
           (or more), chopped f
      3 tb Fruity olive oil
      2 ts Paprika
      2 ts Ground cumin
      1    Lemon -- cut in wedges
 
  MAKE A MIXTURE OF GREENS TO SUIT your taste. Cut away the stems and
  stalks and wash the leaves. Set the greens in a steamer, with the
  tougher greens on the bottom. Cover and steamuntil tender, about 10
  minutes. Or, cook each type of green separately in bo
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Molasses And Ginger Scones
 Categories: Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 7/8 c  Whole wheat flour -- -OR-
      2 c  Unbleached white
      2 tb Brown sugar -- firmly
           Packed
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Ginger
      4 tb Butter -- cut into bits
      1 lg Egg -- beaten
      2 tb Molasses
    1/2 c  Lowfat yogurt
    1/4 c  Raisins
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 425F. Line a cookie sheet with parchment. Using a
  wooden spoon, mix the flour, sugar, baking soda and powder and ginger
  together. Stir in the butter, then the egg,followed by the molasses,
  yogurt and raisins. Mix until too thick to stir. F
  
  Timid Moon in Camden, Maine JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS
  COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mushroom Pasta
 Categories: Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Assorted trimmed mushrooms
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      1 tb Finely minced shallots --
           =OR=- Onions
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sherry or Madeira
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
     12 oz Fresh pasta -- -=OR=-
      8 oz -Dried pasta
           Grated cheese
 
  WIPE MUSHROOMS TO REMOVE any dirt. Slice chanterelles and cultivated
  mushrooms, trim and discard the stems of shiitake mushrooms or root
  tips of oyster mushrooms. Bring 4 quarts of cold, salted water to a
  boil over high heat. Melt butter in a large skille Remove from heat.
  Keep warm until pasta cooks. Add pasta to the boiling water, cook
  until desired doneness, drain and toss with mushroom sauce. Place on
  a serving platter or in a large serving bowl and serve immediately.
  Offer grated cheese.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mussels In Black Bean Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh mussels
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      2 ts Minced peeled fresh ginger
      2 tb Fermented black beans
      1 tb Bean sauce
      1 ts Chili bean sauce
      1 tb Rice wine
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Chicken stock
      3 tb Minced whole scallions
 
  SCRUB THE MUSSELS UNDER COLD water and pull off the wirelike beards.
  Soak in a large bowl in several changes of cold water. Drain
  thoroughly just before cooking. Heat a wok or skillet until hot; add
  oil. Add garlic, ginger and black beans; stir-fry 30 sec Add bean
  sauce and chili bean sauce and stir-fry for another 10 seconds. Add
  mussels and stir-fry for 1 minute. Add rice wine, soy sauce and
  stock. Cook over high heat until the shells are completely open.
  Discard unopened mussels. Garnish with the chopped scallions and
  serve immediately.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nesselrode Pudding
 Categories: Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      5    Eggs
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Gelatin
    1/4 c  Water
      2 c  Whipping cream
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sweetened chestnut puree
      5 oz Chopped candied chestnuts
      1    Pie shell
 
  WARM THE EGGS IN A DOUBLE BOILER. Whip them with an electric mixer,
  and gradually beat in the sugar. Beat until the mixture is thickened
  and forms soft peaks. Soften the gelatin in the water and then
  dissolve over hot water. Beat the cream to soft peaks. Fold the
  gelatin and vanilla into the eggs and then fold in the whipped cream.
  Foldin the chestnut puree and the candied chestnuts. Fill the crust
  and refriger
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nick's Peach Cobbler
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Guestchefs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM------------------BUTTERMILK BISCUIT CRUST-----------------------
      3 c  Self-rising cake flour
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
  1 1/4 c  Buttermilk

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  3 1/2 lb Peaches -- peeled and
           Sliced
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Finely grated lemon zest
    1/2 ts Freshly grated nutmeg
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      3 tb Unsalted butter

MMMMM-----------------------FOR FINISHING----------------------------
           Buttermilk
           Sugar
 
  FOR THE DOUGH, PLACE FLOUR in a bowl and rub in butter until fine and
  mealy. Do not allow to become pasty. Stir in 1 cup of the buttermilk,
  adding the remainder if necessary. Press dough together on a floured
  surface, wrap in plastic wrap and allow to rest while preparing
  filling. Preheat the oven to 450F and set a rack in the middle level.
  Place the peaches i
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: No-Roll Pie Dough
 Categories: Pie/tart, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      3 tb Sugar
      1 pn Salt
    1/4 ts Baking powder
      6 tb Cold butter
      1 lg Egg
 
  COMBINE THE FLOUR, sugar, salt and baking powder in a mixing bowl.
  Cut the butter into six or eight pieces and distribute over the dry
  ingredients. Rub in the butter finely, usingfingertips or pastry
  blender, until the mixture resembles a fine powder. DO
  
  Makes one 10- or 11-inch tart shell or 9-inch pie shell.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodles In Cucumber-Meat Sauce - Za Jiang Mei
 Categories: Chinese, Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Peanut or corn oil
  1 1/2 lb Chopped pork butt
      2 tb Chinese rice wine -- =OR=-
           Dry sherry
      1 tb Grated ginger
      1 tb Minced garlic
      6    Green onions -- chopped
    1/2 c  Hoisin sauce
    1/4 c  Hot bean paste
      2 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
      1 c  Chicken stock
      2 tb Sesame oil
      1 lb Chinese wheat-flour noodles
           FRESH, (w/ or withou
      1 lg Cucumber -- cut into 1/3"
           Cubes
           Toasted black sesame seeds
           (for garnish)
           Fresh coriander leaves --
           (for garnish)
 
  PREHEAT A WOK OR SAUCEPAN over medium-high heat. Add oil. When hot,
  lightly brown the pork; break up clumps. Add rice wine; stir together
  for 1 minute or until the pork is dry. Push meat up the sides of the
  wok. Add ginger, garlic and half the green onion Drain thoroughly and
  set aside. Toss with remaining tablespoon sesame oil and remaining
  green onions. Divide noodles among 6 flat soup plates or bowls. Spoon
  meat sauce on top. Garnish with cucumber, black sesame seeds and
  fresh coriander leaves.
  
  JOYCE JUE - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: North-South Onion Pancakes
 Categories: Chinese, Breads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Flour -- cake or
           All-purpose
      1 c  Boiling water
    1/4 c  Cold water -- or more if
           Dough
           Too dry
      3 tb Shortening
           Vegetable oil for pan
           Frying

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 oz Boneless breast of chicken
           Skinned, diced
    1/2 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Cooking sherry
    1/4 lb Chinese sausage -- diced
      1 tb Chinese dried shrimp --
           Minced
      1 ts Vegetable oil
      3 oz Chinese barbecued pork --
           Diced
      1 bn Green onions -- minced
      1 ts Oyster sauce (optional)
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  MEASURE FLOUR into a large mixing bowl; add boiling water, stirring
  quickly with chopsticks or fork, then add cold water and mix well.
  Work dough until smooth and supple. Roll dough into shape of a ball.
  Cover well with plastic wrap or damp cloth; set asi Quickly stir in
  barbecued pork and 3/4 cup of the minced onions. (Set aside remaining
  onions for pancake wrappers.) Immediately season with the oyster
  sauce, soy sauce, sugar and salt, and mix well. Turn off heat; divide
  into 16 portions and set aside. Kn Pat the onion pancakes gently with
  a paper towel to remove excess oil before serving.
  
  Makes 16 Pancakes, or 8 Servings
  
  ===============   Reply   82 of Note    1 ================= Board:
  FOOD BB Topic:      FOOD SOFTWARE Subject:    Z-MM GUEST CHEF 8 99
  To: BGMB90B ELAINE RADIS          Date:    06/02 From:   BGMB90B
  ELAINE RADIS Time: 6:32 PM MM: OLD-FASHIONED EGG FU YUNG
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Not Loco Pollo
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      3 tb Chile pepper
      3 tb Onion powder
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Dried oregano
      1 pn Cinnamon
      1    Chicken (3-4 lb) -- cut in
           Pieces
 
  MIX ALL INGREDIENTS together well and sprinkle liberally over chicken
  pieces. Refrigerate for 6 or up to 24 hours, before grilling.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oeuf Brouilles A La Michel Guerard
 Categories: Breakfast, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 lg Eggs
      2 ts Butter
      1 tb Creme fraiche
      4 tb Finely chopped shallots
      1 ts Finely chopped chives
           Salt and pepper
      2 oz Caviar
      8    Long thin pieces of bread --
           Toasted
 
  CUT EACH EGG SHELL about 1/2-inch from its pointed end with a serrated
  knife (surgical scissors work well too). Pour out the insides into a
  bowl. Wash the tops and shells in warm water, then turn them upside
  down on a towel to dry completely. Over very lo Beat constantly with
  the whisk, gradually increasing the heat, until the eggs are thick
  and creamy, but not solid. Remove the eggs immediately from the heat
  and continue whisking while adding the creme fraiche, shallots,
  chives, salt and pepper. Place the
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old-Fashioned Lace Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Finely chopped pecans
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
      8 tb Butter
    2/3 c  Brown sugar -- firmly
           Packed
 
  These cylinders-of-lace cookies are a lovely accompaniment to a fruit
  or custard, or may be enjoyed all by themselves. You can also whip
  cream and pipe it into the delicate cylinders.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Sift the flour and toss with the chopped pecans.
  Combine the corn syrup, butter and brown sugar in a saucepan. Bring
  the mixture to the boil over moderate heat, stirring constantly.
  Remove the pan from the heat. Gradually stir in the If they are too
  hard to be rolled, return them to the oven for a minute to soften
  them slightly. If they break, eat them. These freeze well in a tight
  container. NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion And Rice Puree
 Categories: Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Long-grain rice
      6 md Onions -- peeled and thinly
           Sl
    3/4 c  Low-sodium chicken broth --
           =OR=- Water
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 ts Salt -- or as desired
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. MELT THE BUTTER in a medium ovenproof pot or
  Dutch oven over low heat on the stovetop, add the rice and cook 1
  minute, mixing to coat all grains with butter.Remove from heat, add
  the onions, broth, nutmeg, salt and pepper. Cover tigh
  
  TO FREEZE THE SOUBISE: Place warm soubise in an air-tight plastic
  freezer bag. Squeeze out excess air, label and place in freezer for
  up to 6 months. Defrost overnight in the refrigerator, at room
  temperature or on the defrost setting of a microwave. To r
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Gratin
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Small white "pearl" onions
    2/3 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      1 tb Butter -- for greasing
           Gratin
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. In a large pot of boiling water, blanch the
  onions to begin cooking and remove the skins. (Blanch small pearl
  onions for 3 minutes; if unavailable, use walnut-size onions and
  blanch for 5 minutes). Drain, refresh in ice cold water an
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion, Goat Cheese Prosciutto Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 md Onion -- peeled and thinly
           Sl
      1    Garlic clove -- peeled and
           Finely mi
      2    Prepared pizza crusts --
           (See RECIPE)
      2 oz Sliced prosciutto --
           Julienned
      4 oz Goat cheese -- crumbled
      2 tb Chopped chives or scallions
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. In a large saute pan, heat 1 tablespoon of
  olive oil until hot but not smoking. Add the onion slices and saute
  them over medium-high heat until caramel colored, about 8 minutes.
  Add the garlic and cook 30 seconds longer. Remove the p
  
  Makes 2 8-inch pizzas JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Barbecued Ribs
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Slabs baby back ribs -- (14
           To 16 oz each)
      6    Star anise -- crushed
      1 tb Dried tarragon
      3 tb Minced garlic
    1/4 c  Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Rice vinegar
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 c  Chicken stock -- OR
           Low-sodium chicke
      2 tb Sugar
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. The day before grilling, place ribs in a layer
  in a large roasting pan. Combine all other ingredients, mixing well,
  and pour this marinade over the ribs. Cover and place in the oven for
  40 minutes. Remove from the oven, cool, cover a Remove the ribs from
  the marinade. Strain marinade into a bowl, discarding the bits of
  anise and garlic. Place the ribs on the hot grill, and cook, basting
  frequently with the marinade. Present ribs on a platter and serve any
  remaining marinade as a dipping sauce.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan-Fried Catfish
 Categories: Seafood, Asian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Chinese fermented blk.
           Beans
    1/4 c  Sherry
      1 c  Fish stock -- OR Low-sodium
           Chicke
           Water
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      1 ts Finely minced fresh ginger
           =OR=-
      1 tb -Powdered ginger
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      4    Catfish fillets -- 6-8 oz
           Each
           Vegetable oil -- to fill pan
           To 1" de
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
      8    Cilantro sprigs
 
  RINSE THE BEANS under cold running water, then place them in a
  saucepan with the sherry. Place over medium heat and cook for 2
  minutes. Add the fish stock, garlic and ginger and cook for another 5
  minutes, reducing by 1/3. Scrape the liquid and beans into
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan-Fried Catfish Fillets
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Soy sauce
  1 1/2 c  Orange juice
      3 tb Minced ginger -- -=OR=-
      1 tb -Powdered ginger
      4    Catfish fillets -- 6-7 oz
           Each
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Grated orange rind
           Cornstarch
    1/3 c  Cooking oil
      1 tb Finely chopped parsley
 
  COMBINE SOY SAUCE, 1/2 cup orange juice and ginger in a bowl, add the
  catfish, cover and place in the refrigerator for 2 hours or up to 6.
  Place remaining cup of orange juice in asaucepan, place over medium
  heat and cook, reducing the liquid by about 1/2. Remove from heat and
  whisk in the butter. Add the rind, cover, and keep warm. Drain the
  marinade and pat the fillets dry with a towel. Dust with cornstarch
  and shake off excess. Heat the oil in a 10-inch skillet over medium
  heat. When the oil is hot, add Drain on paper towels and keep warm in
  the oven while cooking the remaining 2 fillets. To serve, dress a
  warm platter with the sauce, arrange catfish on top and garnish with
  chopped parsley. MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan-Fried Noodles
 Categories: Chinese, Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh thin noodles
           Peanut oil
    2/3 c  Chicken broth

MMMMM------------------PORK AND VEGETABLE SAUCE-----------------------
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 lb Bok choy -- cut into 2-in
           Sectio
    1/2 lb Barbecued pork strips
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Thin soy sauce
      1 tb Chinese rice wine -- =OR=-
           Dry sherry
      1 tb Oyster sauce
      1 tb Cornstarch -- dissolved in
      2 tb Cold chicken broth
 
  BLANCH 1 POUND FRESH noodles in boiling water to wash away the starch
  and to loosen them up (about 2 minutes). Drain them well. Scatter the
  noodles in a baking pan. Use a pair of chopsticks and your hands to
  untangle them as much as possible. Put a layer Add more oil around
  the edge if it seems to be sticking. To serve, slide it out onto a
  plate and use it as a base for any dish with sauce.
  
  TO MAKE THE PORK AND VEGETABLE SAUCE: Heat the peanut oil in a wok.
  When it is hot, add the bok choy and stir-fry to coat with oil. Add
  the pieces of pork and stir-fry to heat through. Add the broth. Stir
  in the soy sauce, rice wine or sherry, and oyster
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paprika Chicken And Roasted Peppers
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Batch Fricasseed Chicken --
           With sauce, 3-1/3 to
           (See RECIPE) -
    1/2 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      4 lg Red bell peppers
      2 tb Paprika -- (pref. Hungarian
           Swe
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
      1 tb Tomato paste
 
  PREPARE OR DEFROST Fricasseed Chicken. Arrange chicken pieces in a
  casserole or Dutch oven, add broth, cover, place in the oven and turn
  the oven to 375F. Meanwhile, place peppers over the flame of a gas
  stove or place under a preheated broiler and roast until peppers are
  completely black. As they are done, place in a paper bag. Close
  tightly and let rest for 5 minutes. Place peppers under cold running
  wate Place fricassee sauce in saucepan over medium heat. Add paprika,
  coriander and tomato paste. Cook until reduced to a sauce-like
  consistency thick enough to cling to a wooden spoon. Uncover the
  chicken and peppers, strain the sauce over the top and cook another 5
  minutes. To serve, transfer chicken, peppers
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parmesan Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1    Egg yolk
      2    Anchovy fillets
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/3 c  Salad oil
 
  COMBINE ALL INGREDIENTS except the oils in a blender or food
  processor and blend until mixed. Running your machine on low to
  medium speed, slowly add the oils in a steady stream until
  incorporated. (NOTE: If dressing becomes too thick after the oils are
  a Makes 1 1/2 Cups MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parsnip Puree With Grand Marnier
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Parsnips
           Salt
    1/4 c  Warm heavy cream (or more)
           =OR=- Milk
      5 tb Butter (or more)
           Grand Marnier
           Freshly ground white pepper
      1 tb Minced fresh parsley
 
  PEEL PARSNIPS AND CUT IN 1/2-INCH slices. Place parsnips in a medium-
  size saucepan. Cover with water, add a pinch of salt and bring to a
  boil. Cover, reduce heat to medium and cook about 35 minutes or until
  the parsnips are very tender when pierced with
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Perfect Chinese Steamed Rice
 Categories: Chinese, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Uncooked long-grain rice
  3 1/2 c  Water
 
  PUT THE RICE INTO A LARGE BOWL and wash it in several changes of water
  until the water runs clear. Drain the rice and put in a heavy pot
  with the water and bring to a boil. Continue boiling until most of
  the surface liquid has evaporated. This should take
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peter's Cauliflower Gratin
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Head cauliflower
      1 lg Egg
    1/4 c  Whipping cream (or more)
      1 tb Butter -- for greasing
           Gratin
      7 tb Butter -- broken into dots
    1/2 c  Grated cheese -- (Parmesan
           Or Gruyere
           Salt to taste
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. In a large pot of boiling, salted water blanch
  the cauliflower, until crisp-tender, about 5 minutes. Drain, refresh
  in ice cold water and drain again. Chop coarsely. Whip together the
  egg and cream and season with salt, pepper and nu Bake for 20 minutes
  until hot and crusty.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant With Cinnamon And Basil
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2    Pheasants -- quartered
      1 tb Finely minced onion
      3 tb Sherry vinegar
      1 ts Tomato paste
      1 c  Chicken stock -- OR
           Low-sodium chicke
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
      1    Cinnamon stick -- -=OR=-
      1 ts -Ground cinnamon
      4 tb Finely chopped fresh basil
           Leaves only
      3 tb Unsalted butter
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 425F. Heat the oil in an oven-proof skillet over high
  heat, add the pheasant and brown well. Discard the cooking fat in the
  skillet, add onion, vinegar, tomato paste, chicken stock, salt,
  pepper and cinnamon. Bring to a boil, place in the
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant With Roasted Garlic & Lemon
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Pheasant -- cut into serving
           Qua
    1/4 c  Olive oil
     12    Garlic cloves -- unpeeled
      2 c  Chicken stock -- OR
           Low-sodium chicke
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt -- or as desired
      1    Lemon -- yellow zest only
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Heat the oil in a 12-inch oven-proof skillet
  over high heat on top of stove, add the garlic and saute until the
  skins are a medium golden color. Add pheasantand brown on both sides.
  If the garlic turns black, remove it from the skill When the pheasant
  is brown, replace the garlic. Without pouring off the fat, add broth
  and juice. Sprinkle with salt, bring to a boil and place, uncovered,
  in the oven for 50 minutes, turning once.
  
  TO MAKE CANDIED ZESTS: CUT THE LEMON ZEST into 1/4-inch strips and
  place in a small saucepan. Add sugar and water, bring to a boil over
  medium heat. Simmer gently until the water is nearly evaporated and
  zests look shiny and translucent. Strain zests, discard any extra
  syrup and set zests aside. Transfer the skillet with the chicken to
  the stove top, add the cream and place over high heat. Reduce the
  Serve immediately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Picnic-Fried Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1 tb Pepper
      2 lb Chicken pieces
    1/2 c  Flour
           Oil for frying
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Combine buttermilk and pepper in ceramic bowl or
  baking dish. Remove skin from chicken and place chicken in buttermilk.
  Cover and refrigerate 3 hours, turning once. Place flour on plate.
  Remove chicken from buttermilk, pat dry and dr Fill large, heavy
  skillet with 1-inch oil. When hot, add chicken without crowding and
  fry, turning once, until golden on both sides. You may have to fry in
  batches. Remove pieces as they are done and drain on paper towels.
  Arrange chicken on rack in roast Bake 10-to-15 minutes or until
  chicken is well done. Let chicken cool to room temperature before
  refrigerating or packing into picnic hamper.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppyseed Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Guestchefs
      Yield: 96 servings
 
    1/2 lb Unsalted butter -- softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Prepared poppyseed paste
  2 3/4 c  Flour

MMMMM--------------------TO DUST THE COOKIES-------------------------
    1/4 c  Powdered sugar
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F with rack in middle of oven. Combine butter,
  sugar and salt in an electric mixer fitted with a paddle, if you have
  one, and beat at medium speed until creamy. Add the eggs and
  poppyseed paste and beat until incorporated. Reduce speed to slow and
  slowly add the flour. Beat until incor
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork Chop Braised In Madeira & Cider
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Flour -- for dredging
      1    8 oz bone-in loin pork chop
      2 ts Vegetable oil
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      2 ts Vegetable oil
      1 sm Granny Smith -- sliced
           Or
      1 sm Onion -- peeled and sliced
      2 c  Coarsely shredded cabbage
    1/3 c  Madeira
    1/2 c  Apple cider
      2 tb Sour cream (optional)
           Other tart apple
 
  DREDGE THE PORK CHOP IN FLOUR, patting to remove any excess flour. In
  a small deep saute pan with a tight-fitting lid, heat the oil over
  medium-high heat until hot but not smoking. Add the pork chop and
  saute it until golden brown, about 2 minutes on each Remove the chop
  to a plate and season it with salt and pepper. Discard the oil, add 2
  more teaspoons of oil and heat until hot. Add the apple slices, onion
  and cabbage and saute them until they start to wilt, 1 to 2 minutes.
  Pour in the Madeira and cider.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork W/ Figs, Pearl Onions & Mustard
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 ts Kosher salt
      1 ts White pepper
    1/2 ts Ground allspice
      3 lb Boneless pork loin roast
     24    Dried black figs
      1 c  Marsala wine
      1 pt Pearl onions
    1/2 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      3 tb Honey
      6 tb Hot mustard
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      3 tb Butter
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. In a small bowl combine oil, salt, pepper and
  allspice. Rub the pork with the mixture, cover and let stand at room
  temperature for 1 hour. Steep the figs in Marsala in a small bowl for
  1 hour. Meanwhile, place the onions in warm wate Heat the oil in a
  pan over high heat on the stove and brown the pork on all sides.
  Remove from the heat and transfer the pork to a roasting pan. Add
  onions, figs, Marsala and broth. Cover and place in the oven for 1
  hour. Remove the cover and continue to
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pot Roast Of Turkey With Barley
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
    1/2    Turkey breast -- about 3.5
           Lbs
      3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Whipping cream
      1    Onion -- studded with
      2    Cloves
      1 tb Minced garlic
      3    Bay leaves
      1 tb Fresh thyme -- -=OR=-
      1 tb -Dried thyme
    3/4 c  Pearl barley
    1/2 ts Salt -- or as desired
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
      5 lg Leeks; white part only --
           Sliced in thin round
      2 tb Unsalted butter
 
  HEAT THE OIL in a large Dutch oven or roasting pan and add the
  turkey, skin side down. Cook over high heat until skin is golden,
  about 7 minutes. Remove the turkey and pour off the oil. Replace the
  pot on the stove and add the water, onion, garlic, bay le When it's
  time to serve dinner, carefully remove the meat from the bones and
  discard bones. Cut the breast meat against the grain into thin
  diagonal slices. Pour the barley onto alarge platter. Arrange the
  turkey on the barley and pile the leeks in the ce
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pot Roast Tri-Tip
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Sirloin tri-tip
           Salt and pepper -- as
           Desired
      2 tb Oil
      1 md Onion -- peeled and
           Quartered
      1    Carrot -- cut up
      1    Celery stalk -- chopped
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Red wine
      3 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Thyme
 
  PAT THE MEAT DRY, SPRINKLE with salt and pepper. Heat the oil in a
  large flame-proof casserole, add the meat and brown on both sides
  over high heat. Remove the meat from the pot, reduce heat to medium
  and add onions, carrots and celery and cook, stirring, Serve the
  sauce separately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pot-Roasted Veal
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Chopped shallots
    1/2 ts Ground rosemary
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
      5 lb Veal round roast
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  White wine
      2 tb Unsalted butter
 
  MIX 3 TABLESPOONS OIL, shallots, half the rosemary, salt and pepper
  together and rub all the surfaces of the veal. Cover and refrigerate
  for at least 4 hours, or overnight. Heat remaining oil in a Dutch
  oven or covered casserole over medium-high heat on t Drain excess
  fat. Add the lemon juice, wine and remaining rosemary. Cover and
  reduce heat to low. Cook for 2 hours, or until tender. Check
  periodically and, if the casserole is dry, add a tablespoon or two of
  water. Remove the pot from the heat, uncover a
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pressure Cooker Pot Roast
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4 lb Boneless beef roast
      2 tb Oil
      1 sm Onion -- chopped
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 c  Red wine
  2 1/2 c  Beef stock
      6 tb Flour
 
  BROWN THE BEEF AND ONION in oil in the open pressure cooker. Add salt
  and pepper, 1/2 cup wine, seal cooker and cook at 10 pounds pressure
  for 15 minutes per pound. Reduce pressure, open cooker and remove
  meat. To make gravy, remove all but 2 tablespoons fat from the
  cooker, add the flour and stir for 1 minute, then slowly add the wine
  and stock and simmer for a few minutes until thickened. Season gravy
  with salt and pepper to taste.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quickie Jerk Pork
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Vinegar
           Chopped hot pepper -- to
           Taste
           Chopped onion -- to taste
           Chopped garlic -- to taste
           Red pepper flakes -- to
           Taste
           Salt -- to taste
      1    Boned leg of pork -- cut
           Into bite-size p
 
  COMBINE ALL THE INGREDIENTS except the pork in a non-reactive pan.
  Add the pork and marinate for 4 days, turning frequently. Keep
  covered in the refrigerator. Take out and wipe dry. Cook pork on a
  grid over burning coals to get a smokey flavor.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raised Waffles
 Categories: Breads, Breakfast, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Warm water
      1 pk Dry yeast
      2 c  Milk -- warmed
    1/2 c  Butter -- melted
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      2    Eggs
    1/4 ts Baking soda
 
  USE A RATHER LARGE mixing bowl--the batter will rise to double its
  original volume. Put the water in the mixing bowl and sprinkle in the
  yeast. Let stand to dissolve for 5 minutes. Add the milk, butter,
  salt, sugar and flour to the yeast mixture and beat
  
  MARION CUNNINGHAM PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red And Yellow Pepper Tart
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Recipe Savory Tart Dough
      3 md Bell pepper
      2 lg -Bell peppers -- mixed
           But preferably -- Red and
           Yellow
      4 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Red onion; quartered --
           Sliced thinly crossw
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
           Salt
    1/4 c  Water or white wine
           Pepper
      1 c  Basil leaves -- loosely
           Packed
           And roughly chopped
      2 tb Parmesan or Romano cheese --
           (grated)
      2    Whole eggs -- plus
      2    Egg yolks
  1 1/2 c  Light cream
      1 c  Provolone cheese -- grated
     20    Black Nicoise olives --
           Pitted
 
  PREPARE THE TART DOUGH. If you are using unyeasted crust, partially
  prebake it. Halve the peppers lengthwise, remove the seeds and veins,
  then halve them crosswise and slice very thinly. Warm 2 tablespoons
  of the olive oil in a wide pan, add the peppers, Saute over
  medium-high heat for several minutes, then lower the heat, add the
  water or white wine, cover and stew until the peppers and onion are
  very soft and sweet. If the peppers and onion threaten to stick as
  the sugars are released, add additional sm Scrape the puree out of
  the jar, stir in the Parmesan or Romano cheese and season with salt.
  If using the yeasted tart dough, prepare the shell, then make the
  custard. Beat the eggs and yolks together, then add the cream, 1/2
  teaspoon salt and pepper. Pre
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Relish Salad
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Brown sugar -- packed
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
      2 c  Chopped cabbage
    1/2 c  Chopped green bell pepper
      1 c  Chopped celery
 
  IN BOWL, COMBINE SALT, brown sugar, dry mustard and cider vinegar,
  stirring until blended. Add cabbage, bell pepper and celery and toss
  until well coated with dressing. Serve chilled.
  
  Makes 3 1/2 Cups MARION CUNNINGHAM PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Porridge And Corn (Yumi Zhou)
 Categories: Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Short grain rice
      2 c  Corn -- fresh or frozen
      3 tb Finely chopped scallions
      1 tb Chili bean sauce

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      2 ts Roasted Sichuan peppercorns
           (crushed)
 
  In Chinese, this is called Yumi Zhou and can be eaten for breakfast or
  lunch, or as part of a full dinner.
  
  BRING THE WATER TO THE BOIL in a large pot, add the salt and then the
  rice. Bring back to the boil, stir several times, cover loosely, and
  let the rice simmer for 40 minutes at the lowest possible heat. Add
  the corn and simmer for 20 more minutes. Stir in
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Fillet Of Beef
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Fillet of beef (5-6 lb) --
           Trimmed
      5    Garlic cloves -- slivered
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Freshly ground pepper
           Tabasco sauce
      1 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 c  Port wine
      2 ts Thyme
      1 bn Watercress
 
  TO PREPARE THE FILLET, MAKE slits in it and put slivers of garlic in
  the slits. Rub well with salt, pepper and Tabasco. Combine the soy
  sauce, olive oil, port and herbs and place the fillet in this
  marinade in a baking dish for at least 1/2 hour unrefrige Place the
  fillet on a rack in a roasting pan. Roast for 30-to-35 minutes,
  basting occasionally with the marinade. A meat thermometer should
  register 120F for very rare, 125F for rare, 130F for medium-rare.
  After it is removed from the oven, the internal t Unwrap just before
  slicing. Cut into slices and place on a warm platter; garnish with
  sprigs of watercress.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Quail
 Categories: Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Quails
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Dried tarragon (scant)
      2    Turns of pepper -- from a
           Pepper mill
 
  Use this technique to cook as many quails as you need, remembering
  that 2 make an entree portion. Serve with buttered brown rice or new
  potatoes and a green vegetable.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 450F for 15 minutes. Clean quail. Grind a bit of
  pepper into cavity, put a half tablespoon of butter inside each with
  the tarragon. Tie the legs together with string if desired to
  maintain shape during cooking. Place on a rack, breasts up. Rub the
  skin of each quail with the other half of the butter. Place quails in
  the oven for 15 minutes. Baste with butter once or twice if you can.
  Remove from oven, cover with foil. Let sit 10 minutes and remove
  string before serving.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon-And-Olives Tartar
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh salmon
    1/2 c  Black Greek olives -- such
           As Calamata,
           Pitted and chopped
      2 tb Chopped fresh oregano
      2 tb Minced shallots
      1 tb Chopped parsley
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Olive oil
      4    Lemon wedges
      8 sl Toast
 
  PLACE THE SALMON IN THE FREEZER and freeze for 30 minutes to kill any
  parasites. Defrost in the refrigerator. Combine the olives, oregano,
  shallots, parsley, lemon juice and oil in a mixing bowl. Just before
  serving, finely chop the salmon by hand and add Garnish with lemon
  wedges and toast.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salt-And-Pepper Spicy Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Salt
      1 lb Large shrimp -- unpeeled and
           Deveine
      2 ts Coarse or kosher salt
      1 ts Roasted Sichuan peppercorns
           (ground)
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Finely chopped garlic
      2 ts Minced peeled fresh ginger
      2 tb Finely chopped scallions
      2    Fresh red chile peppers --
           Coarsely chopped
      2 c  Peanut oil -- for deep
           Frying
 
  TO CLEAN THE SHRIMP, remove the feathery legs and blot the shrimp dry
  with paper towels. In a small bowl, combine the coarse salt,
  peppercorns, and sugar and set aside. In anothersmall bowl, combine
  the garlic, ginger, scallions and the chopped chilies. H Remove them
  immediately with a slotted spoon and drain well. Pour off all but 1
  1/2 tablespoons of the oil and reheat the wok. Add the
  salt-peppercorns-sugar mixture and stir-fry for 10 seconds. Add the
  garlic-ginger-scallion-chiles mixture and stir-fry f Transfer the
  shrimp to a serving platter and serve at once.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Satay-Style Beef With Broccoli
 Categories: Meats, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Market steak or beef fillet
           =OR=- New York steak

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      2 ts Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Shrimp paste
      2 ts Cornstarch
      2 ts Rice wine
      1 lb Chinese broccoli
      1 c  Peanut oil -- for
           Deep-frying

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/2 ts Shrimp paste
      1 c  Chicken stock
    1/2 ts Satay sauce -- -=OR=-
      2 ts -chili bean sauce
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Dark soy sauce
      2 ts Rice wine
    1/2 ts Cornstarch -- mixed with
    1/2 ts Water
 
  PLACE THE STEAK IN THE FREEZER for about 20 minutes or until it is
  firm to the touch. Cut it, against the grain, into thin slices. Place
  the meat in a medium-sized bowl with all the marinade ingredients and
  refrigerate for 20 minutes. Separate the Chinese When the sauce has
  thickened, return the meat to the wok and stir to mix well. Serve
  with the warm broccoli.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Chicken And Grapes
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Chicken drumsticks
      4    Chicken thighs
      4    Chicken breasts
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Flour to dust the chicken
      2 tb Cooking oil
    3/4 c  Madeira or sherry
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
      3    Bay leaves
      1    Branch fresh thyme --
           =OR=-
      1 ts -Dried thyme
      2    Chicken livers
  1 1/2 c  Seedless grapes
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Rinse the chicken pieces and pat dry. Sprinkle
  with desired salt and pepper and dust with flour, shaking off excess.
  Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat on the stove. Add
  chicken pieces, in batches, if necessary, without Simmer for 2
  minutes to heat the grapes. Remove the chicken from the oven, spoon
  sauce and grapes over it and serve immediately.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Whitefish With Caper Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Finely minced garlic
      3 tb Drained capers
      1 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      4    7-oz pieces whitefish --
           =OR=- Shad
      3 tb All-purpose flour
      1 tb Vegetable oil
 
  IN A 1-QUART SAUCEPAN over high heat, combine the garlic, capers,
  white wine and lemon juice and cook, reducing by one-third. Add the
  cream, reduce the heat to medium and continueto cook until the liquid
  starts to thicken, another 3 minutes. Remove from h
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops W/ Pine Nuts & Dried Tomato
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 lb Bay scallops (nickel-sized)
           =OR=- large sea scal
           Sized) -- cut in half
      4 tb Pine nuts
      1 tb Finely minced shallots
      1 ts Finely minced garlic
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Dried tomatoes
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  This has been a favorite at Trumps restaurant in Los Angeles for
  years. Baked potatoes are perfect with these scallops, but don't
  serve them with sour cream, which will interfere with the sauce.
  
  IF THE DRIED TOMATOES are packed in oil, drain and pat them dry on a
  towel. Heat the oil in a large skillet over high heat. When the oil
  is almost smoking, toss in the scallops and cook for 30 seconds
  without stirring. Stir with a wooden spoon and let coo
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops With Ginger And Mint
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      2 md Carrots -- peeled
           Finely grated or shredded
      1 tb Salad oil
      2 lb Small bay scallops
      1 tb Finely minced shallots
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 tb Finely minced fresh ginger
      2 tb Chopped fresh mint
           Salt -- to taste
           Freshly ground pepper -- to
           Taste
 
  IN A SMALL LIDDED POT or saucepan melt 2 tablespoons butter over low
  heat and add the carrots. Cover and cook slowly for about 15 minutes,
  or until softened. Meanwhile, heat the oil in a large skillet over
  high heat. Pat the scallops dry on a towel. When the oil is nearly
  smoking, toss in the scallops, in batches if necessary so as notto
  crowd the pan, and cook for 30 seconds without stirring. Then stir
  lightl Reserve scallops on a plate. They should be only partially
  cooked. Discard the oil in the pan. Return the skillet to high heat,
  add the shallots, wine and ginger. Cook until liquid reduces by half.
  Meanwhile, the scallops will have released a small amount
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops, Grapefruit And Fried Rice
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked long grain rice
      4 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb Oil
      1 sm Onion -- finely diced
      1    Ear of corn -- kernels only
      1 sm Red pepper -- finely
           Chopped
    1/2 lb Snow peas -- finely chopped
      1 tb Dark sesame oil (optional)
  1 1/2 lb Bay scallops
    1/2 c  Grapefruit juice
      2 tb Unsalted butter
 
  COOK THE RICE IN THE normal way and chill in the refrigerator for at
  least 6 hours. Toss the rice with the soy sauce and set aside. Heat 2
  tablespoons oil in a large skillet or fry pan. Add the onions and
  cook 1 minute. Add corn and peppers and cook, stir Remove from the
  heat. Mix in the sesame oil and arrange the rice in a ring on a
  serving platter. Keep warm in a 250F oven while cooking the scallops.
  Heat remaining tablespoon oilin a large non-reactive skillet over
  high heat until almost smoking. Add the Using a wooden spoon, stir to
  unstick any scallops that have adhered to the bottom of the skillet.
  Add the grapefruit juice. Cook about 30 seconds, then remove the
  scallops, usinga slotted spoon, and reserve on a plate. Reduce heat
  to medium and boil the
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scrambled Eggs And Corn
 Categories: Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ts Butter
      2    Scallions -- including a
           Little of the greens --
           Finely chopped
      5    Cilantro sprigs -- chopped
      1 lg Ear of corn -- the kernels
           Removed
           Water
      2    Eggs
           Salt
      1 lg Flour tortilla -- -=OR=-
      2    Corn tortillas
      2 tb Grated Muenster cheese --
           =OR=- Monterey Jack
 
  MELT BUTTER IN AN 8-INCH pan and add scallions, cilantro and corn.
  Cook for a minute or so, add a splash of water and continue cooking
  until the corn is tender. Season with salt. Beat the eggs with a
  pinch of salt and a teaspoon of water, then pour them i
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Croquettes
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 sm Onion -- finely minced
    1/2    Celery stalk -- finely
           Diced
      3 tb All-purpose flour
    1/3 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
           Bread crumbs
      1 lb Cooked fish and/or shellfish
           Such as salmon, shri
           Scallops, white fish -- or a
           Combination
      1 tb Finely chopped parsley
      1 tb Chopped chives
      1 ts Salt -- or as desired
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper -- as
           Desired
           Flavorless cooking oil
 
  MELT THE BUTTER in a small skillet over medium heat. Add the onion and
  celery and cook, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes or until soft. Add
  the flour, stirring to form a paste. Add the milk and nutmeg and cook
  another minute or so until mixture thickens. Meanwhile, place bread
  crumbs on a plate. Scrape the mixture into a mixing bowl and add the
  fish, parsley, chives, salt and pepper. Using 2 forks, mash the fish
  into the mixture. Drop tablespoon dollops of the mixture into the
  bread crumbs. Roll each doll
  
  TO FREEZE the mixture: Place croquettes on a lightly oiled cookie
  sheet and place in the freezer. When the croquettes are frozen,
  transfer them to airtight plastic bags or a lidded freezer container.
  Cook frozen uncooked croquettes directly from the freez
  
  TO FREEZE COOKED CROQUETTES: Cool cooked croquettes to room
  temperature, uncovered. Place in an airtight plastic freezer bag or
  lidded container. Label and place in freezer for up to 3 months. To
  cook frozen cooked croquettes, place on a cookie sheet and
  
  This is from Michael Roberts' book, "Fresh From the Freezer" (Wm.
  Morrow, 1990).
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood En Papillote
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Flounder fillets -- (about
    1/4    " thick)
           Other flat fish fillets --
           Such as lemon sole
    1/2 lb Shrimp -- shelled &
           Deveined
    1/2 lb Sea scallops
      2 tb Butter
      4 tb Flour
      2 c  Fish stock -- OR clam juice
           OR
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      2    Egg yolks -- lightly beaten
           Parchment paper
           Vegetable oil
    1/4 lb Mushrooms -- rinsed and
           Sliced
      2    Green onions -- sliced on
           Diagonal,
           With green part saved
      2 tb Parsley
           Chicken broth
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400F. Rinse flounder, shrimp and scallops and set
  aside on a paper towel. Melt butter in a skillet, stir in the flour
  and cook until tan. Stirring constantly, gradually add the fish
  stock. Bring to the boil, reduce to a simmer, and cook until reduced
  by half, stirring as needed. Add the wine and season to taste with
  salt and pepper. Add a little of the hot sauce to the egg yolks and
  then stir the yolks back into the sauce. Stir for a moment You can
  make 4 individual pouches or one large one. Cut 8 small or 2 large
  sheets of parchment paper or aluminum foil. Brush half with the oil.
  Place the fillets side by side in the middle of the large sheet, or
  one fillet on each small sheet. Place 1/4 of the shrimp, scallops,
  mushroom, green onion and pa
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Jellyfish
 Categories: Chinese, Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Prepared shredded jellyfish
      2 ts Light soy sauce
      3 tb Sesame oil
      2 ts White rice vinegar
      2 ts Sugar
      3 tb White sesame seeds --
           Toasted
 
  RINSE THE JELLYFISH WELL in cold running water and drain. Put it in a
  stainless steel bowl and cover with boiling water. Let the jellyfish
  sit in the water for about 15 minutes oruntil it is tender. Drain and
  continue to soak at least 6 times in several c
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shad Roe With Bacon And Pernod
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Set shad roe
           Salt -- to taste
           White pepper -- to taste
      1 tb Flour
    1/4 lb Sliced bacon -- cut into
    1/2    -in piec
      1 ts Butter
      1 tb Pernod -- or Ricard
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Finely chopped parsley
 
  USING A SMALL KNIFE, carefully separate the 2 lobes of roe, then
  prick the membrane several times with the tip of the knife. Sprinkle
  with salt and pepper. Lightly dust the roe with flour and set them
  aside on a plate. Combine the bacon and butter in a medium skillet
  over medium heat and cook, stirring, about 3 minutes. Add the roe and
  continue to cook about 5 minutes on each side. Add the Pernod, lemon
  juic
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shad With Sorrel
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Shad fillets, boned --
           Skinned
           Salt -- to taste
           White pepper -- to taste
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Chopped sorrel leaves
      1 tb Unsalted butter
 
  PLACE SHAD IN A MEDIUM saute pan and sprinkle with salt and pepper.
  Add the wine and lemon juice and sprinkle the pan with sorrel. Cover
  and place over medium heat for 8 minutes. Remove the shad from the
  pan and keep warm on a plate. Add the butter and co
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shortbreads
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      1 lb Unsalted butter
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Condensed milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
  3 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
 
  COMBINE BUTTER, sugar and salt in an electric mixer fitted with a
  paddle, if you have one, and beat at medium speed until creamy. Add
  condensed milk and vanilla and beat until incorporated. Reduce speed
  to slow and slowly add the flour and then the cornst Beat until
  incorporated. Divide the dough unto 4 balls, wrap in plastic wrap and
  chill in the refrigerator for 1 hour, or until firm. Lightly flour a
  work surface and roll out thedough to a 1/4-inch thickness. Keep
  lifting the dough and, if it sticks to t Preheat oven to 300F. Using
  a 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter, cut out circles of dough, or use a
  knife to cut dough into 2-inch squares. Place on a non-stick or
  lightly buttered cookie sheet, and replace in the refrigerator to
  chill, about 15 minutes. Pla
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shredded Beef With Sesame Seeds
 Categories: Meats, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb New York strip steak --
           (Boneless)
      1    Egg white
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Cornstarch
    2/3 c  Oil -- preferably peanut
      1 tb White sesame seeds --
           (untoasted)

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 ts Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Chinese black rice vinegar
           =OR=-  cider vingega
    1/2 ts Sesame oil
      1 ts Sugar
      2 ts Rice wine or dry sherry
    1/2 ts Roasted Sichuan peppercorns
           (optional)
      2 ts Finely chopped scallions
 
  CUT THE STEAK INTO FINE SHREDS 3 inches long. Combine them with the
  egg white, salt and cornstarch, and chill for about 20 minutes. Heat
  the oil in a wok or large skillet until itis moderately hot. Add the
  beef mixture and stir-fry it quickly in the oil t Add the sauce
  ingredients and bring to a boil. Return the cooked beef to the pan
  and stir-fry the mixture for another 2 minutes, coating the pieces
  thoroughly with the sauce and sesame seeds. Serve at once, or let it
  cool and serve at room temperature.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shredded Pork With Yellow Chives
 Categories: Chinese, Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lean tenderloin pork --
           =OR=-Boneless Pork chop

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1    Egg white
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 tb Rice wine
      1 ts Sesame oil
    1/2 c  Dried Chinese blk.
           Mushrooms
      1 c  Peanut oil
    1/2 lb Chinese yellow chives -- (OR
           Green chives),
           Into 3-inch pieces
      2 ts Finely chopped fresh ginger
      1 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Rice wine
 
  PLACE THE PORK IN THE FREEZER for about 20 minutes or until firm to
  the touch. Then cut into slices, then into shreds. Place meat in a
  large bowl with the marinade ingredients. Refrigerate for 20 minutes.
  Soak the mushrooms in a bowl of warm water for abo Remove the meat
  and drain off all but 2 table- spoons of oil. Reheat the wok and add
  the mushrooms, chives, ginger, garlic and salt and stir-fry for 2
  minutes. Return the pork to the wok and continue to stir-fry for
  another minute. Finally add the rice wine and give the mixture
  several stirs. Turn onto a platter and serve at once.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Pasta
 Categories: Seafood, Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     20    Jumbo shrimp -- raw or
           Cooked
     12 oz Fresh pasta -- -=OR=-
      8 oz -Dry pasta -- such as
           Angel hair, spaghettini --
           Pastina, orzo, riso
           Or
      3 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      4 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Chopped parsley
           Bowties
 
  PEEL AND DEVEIN SHRIMP, leaving the swimmer intact. Bring 4 quarts of
  cold, salted water to a boil over high heat on the stove. Heat the
  oil in a skillet over high heat, add the shrimp and cook 1 minute,
  tossing or stirring. Add the wine and cook another 3-to-4 minutes.
  Remove from heat, whisk in the butte
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Sauteed With White Wine
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Large shrimp
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
    1/4 c  White wine
      2 tb Minced parsley
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  A basic "shrimp scampi"-type recipe. Vary this recipe by adding fresh
  herbs (rosemary, tarragon, oregano) or vegetables (snow peas, red
  peppers, tomatoes, sun-dried tomatoes). I suggest serving it over
  linguine.
  
  PEEL AND DEVEIN the shrimp. Heat the olive oil in a saute pan. Add the
  garlic and saute 1 minute. Add the shrimp and saute just until they
  turn pink. Add the wine and cook until it begins to simmer. Sprinkle
  with parsley and stir in the salt and pepper.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Simple Brown Rice
 Categories: Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Brown rice
  2 1/2 c  Liquid (water, stock --
           Juice)
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Salt (optional)
 
  PLACE RICE, LIQUID, BUTTER and salt in a 2-to-3-quart saucepan. Bring
  to the boil; stir once or twice. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer
  45-to-50 minutes, or until rice is tender and liquid is absorbed.
  Fluff with a fork.
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Simple Wild Rice
 Categories: Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Wild rice
      6 c  Boiling water
      1 tb Olive oil
           Salt
 
  TO PREPARE THE WILD RICE, wash it in a sieve under cold running water
  for 2 minutes. Put the rice in a heavy pan, add the boiling water,
  and the olive oil. Cover, and let the rice simmer about 55 minutes
  until it is cracked and puffy. Drain, and salt to taste. (Be sure to
  drain rice after soaking.) NATHALIE DUPREE PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS
  COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Simple, Slow-Roasted Pork Shoulder
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Oil or unsalted butter --
           For coating
      1    Pork Shoulder -- 4-to-5 lb
           Salt & freshly ground
           Pepper
 
  Slow roasting results in tender, juicy pork. Turkey, lamb, beef or
  veal can be roasted similarly.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 350F. Oil or butter pork all over. Season fatty outer
  layer with salt and pepper. Place pork on a roasting rack in a pan.
  Place pan in center of preheated oven and roast, uncovered. Roast for
  30 minutes per pound or until the internal temperature at the
  thickest point reaches 155F. (NOTE: Cover loosely with foil and allow
  to "rest" for at least 15 minutes before carving.
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Salmon-And-Chive Sandwiches
 Categories: Sandwich, Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 sl Thinly sliced pumpernickel
      6 oz Thinly sliced smoked salmon
      8 oz Cream cheese -- soft
    1/4 c  Butter -- soft
      1 tb Grated lemon zest
           Salt and pepper
      3 tb Fresh chives -- finely
           Chopped
 
  BEAT TOGETHER CREAM CHEESE and butter until smooth and light. Beat in
  lemon zest and salt and pepper to taste. Stir in chives. Lay out 6
  slices of the bread. Carefully spread with half the filling. Place
  the salmon, overlapping if necessary, in an even layer over the
  filling. Spread with the remaining filling and top with the
  remainingslices of bread. Trim off the crusts and cut the sandwiches
  into quarters. NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Snap Peas With Sesame Oil
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Sugar snap or snow peas
           Salt
           Sesame oil
           Chopped parsley or cilantro
 
  CUT ACROSS THE STEM END of the peas and pull off the string that runs
  along the length of the pea. Bring a pot of water to a boil, add salt
  and the peas. Blanch until the peas turn bright green and are
  tender-crisp, after a minute or so. Taste to make sur Scoop them out
  with a strainer and shake off as much excess water as possible. Put
  them in a bowl and toss with just enough oil to lightly coat, a
  teaspoon or so. Add the parsley or cilantro and serve. For a
  variation, make the recipe using peanut oil or
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sorrel Omelet
 Categories: Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     20    Sorrel leaves -- the stems
           Removed
      3 ts Butter
      3    Eggs
      2 tb Water
           Salt
           Freshly milled pepper
      2 tb Cream
 
  CUT THE SORREL LEAVES into strips, melt half the butter in an omelet
  pan and cook the leaves until they have wilted and turned a
  gray-green color. This will take just a minute or two. Lightly beat
  the eggs with the water, season with salt and pepper, then Bring it
  to a boil and let it reduce enough just to thicken slightly. Make a
  slice down the center of the omelet, pour in the cream and serve.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Country-Style Chicken
 Categories: Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Boneless chicken breasts --
           Skinned
      2 sm Fresh green or red chiles
      8 oz Canned bamboo shoots
    1/2 lb Zucchini
      1 lg Red or green bell pepper
      2 tb Oil -- preferably peanut
      2 tb Chicken stock
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
  1 1/2 ts Chili bean sauce (or more)
      2 ts Granulated sugar
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 tb Chinese black rice vinegar
           =OR=- Cider vinegar
      1 tb Tomato paste
 
  CUT THE CHICKEN BREASTS into shreds about 3 inches long. Cut the fresh
  chiles in half, carefully remove the seeds and shred the chiles. (Do
  not touch your eyes while doing this, as it will make them sting.)
  Then prepare all the vegetables. Rinse the bambo Reheat it and add
  the rest of the oil. When it is hot, add the shredded chiles, bamboo
  shoots, zucchini and bell pepper. Stir-fry for about 2 minutes, and
  then add the rest of theingredients. Mix them well and stir-fry for
  another minute. Return the chick
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Deep-Fried Chicken - (Hunan Chicken)
 Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Boneless chicken pieces
      2 c  Oil
    2/3 c  All-purpose flour

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 ts Chili bean sauce -- =OR=-
           Chili powder
      2 ts Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 ts Light soy sauce
      1 ts Dark soy sauce
      2 ts Finely chopped ginger root
      1 tb Finely chopped scallions
      1 ts Granulated sugar
 
  CUT THE CHICKEN into strips 2-inches-by-1/2-inch and put in a large
  bowl. Blend the marinade ingredients together and pour the mixture
  over the chicken. Mix well for even distribution. Allow the chicken
  to marinate for 30-to-40 minutes at room temperature Heat the oil in
  a deep-fat fryer or large wok until it is quite hot. Lightly sprinkle
  the chicken strips with the flour and deep-fry them for 8 minutes.
  Remove them and drain on paper towels. Serve at once.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Pork With Peanuts
 Categories: Chinese, Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Raw unsalted peanuts
      3 tb Peanut oil
      4    Whole dried chile peppers
      4    Scallions -- thinly sliced
      3    Garlic cloves -- thinly
           Sliced

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 tb Chile paste with garlic
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Chinese rice wine -- =OR=-
           Dry sherry
      1 tb Chinkiany vinegar -- -=OR=-
      2 ts -Red wine vinegar -- (or
           Cider vinegar)
      1 ts Sesame oil
      1 ts Cornstarch -- mixed with
      1 tb Chicken broth -- (cold)
      8 oz Boneless pork -- cubed
 
  STIR-FRY THE PEANUTS over a high flame in 1 tablespoon of the oil
  until they develop a golden-brown color. This brings out their
  flavor. Take care not to let them burn. Remove them and set them
  aside. Lower the flame to medium. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons of
  oil and flavor it with the peppers. With the oil still at medium
  heat, add the scallions and garlic Quickly toss to coat them well.
  Stir and toss the pork for 30-to-45 seconds, or until the pieces are
  cooked through. Turn the pork out on a serving plate.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Sichuan Noodles (Dan Dan Mian)
 Categories: Chinese, Pasta, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Ground pork
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Peanut oil
    3/4 lb Chinese thin egg noodles --
           (fresh or dry)
      3 tb Finely chopped garlic
      2 tb Finely chopped ginger
      5 tb Finely chopped scallions
      2 tb Sesame paste -- =OR=- peanut
           Butter
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      2 tb Chili oil
      2 ts Salt
      1 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Sichuan peppercorns --
           (roasted and ground)
 
  COMBINE THE PORK, SOY SAUCE and salt in a small bowl and mix well.
  Heat a wok or saute pan until it is hot. Add the oil and deep-fry the
  pork, stirring with a spatula to break it into small pieces. When the
  pork is crispy and dry, about 4 minutes, remove it with a slotted
  spoon and drain on paper towels. Pour off the oil, leaving 2
  tablespoons in the wok. Rehea Divide them into individual bowls or
  put in large soup tureen. Ladle on the sauce.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Gratin
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Spinach; stems removed --
           OR-
      2 pk -Frozen spinach --
           Defrosted
      4 tb Butter
           Salt
           Pepper
           Nutmeg
           Mornay Sauce (see RECIPE)
      4 tb Gruyere
 
  WASH THE SPINACH WELL and put it in a non-aluminum pot. Cover and
  cook it in its own water over medium heat until wilted, about 5
  minutes. Put the wilted spinach in a strainer and, with the back of a
  large spoon, squeeze as much liquid from the spinach as Chop the
  spinach by hand or in a food processor, season with salt, pepper and
  nutmeg and mix with 3 tablespoons of the butter. Use the remaining 1
  tablespoon of butter to grease the gratin dish. Add the spinach,
  cover with Mornay Sauce (See RECIPE) and sp
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach With Bechamel
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------SPINACH-------------------------------
      2 lb Spinach
      1 c  White Sauce

MMMMM--------------------WHITE SAUCE BECHAMEL-------------------------
      1 tb Butter
  1 1/2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk -- warmed
 
  SPINACH: Cook spinach briefly by either boiling or steaming. Drain and
  squeeze out excess moisture. Mix with 1 cup white sauce and warm over
  low heat, 3-to-5 minutes.
  
  WHITE SAUCE (BECHAMEL): Melt the butter in a saucepan over low heat.
  Add the flour and cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, 2-to-3 minutes.
  Remove from heat, add the hot milk gradually, stirring constantly
  with a whisk. Return to the heat and simmer, stirr
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Open Dumplings
 Categories: Breakfast, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Wonton skins -- (about 30-35
           Skins

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    3/4 lb Ground pork
      2 tb Minced Smithfield ham --
           =OR=- Prosciutto
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      2 ts Rice wine or dry sherry
  1 1/2 tb Finely chopped scallions
      1 ts Finely chopped ginger root
      1 ts Sesame oil
      1    Egg -- beaten
      1 ts Granulated sugar
 
  COMBINE THE FILLING ingredients and mix them together well. Spoon a
  generous portion of filling onto each wonton skin. Bring up the sides
  and press them around the filling mixture. Tap the dumpling on the
  bottom to make a flat base. The top should be wide KEN HOM - PRODIGY
  GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Spareribs With Black Beans
 Categories: Chinese, Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Pork spareribs
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      1 ts Sesame oil
      1 ts Finely chopped ginger root
  1 1/2 tb Chinese fermented blk. beans
           (coarsely chopped)
      2 ts Finely chopped garlic
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
 
  ASK YOUR BUTCHER to cut the spareribs into individual ribs and then
  into 2-inch segments, or do it yourself with a cleaver or a sharp,
  heavy knife. Rub the spareribs with salt andlet them sit in a bowl
  for about 20-to-25 minutes. Fill a large saucepan wit Drain them and
  discard the water. Mix the other ingredients together in a large bowl
  and stir in the spareribs, coating them well with the mixture.
  Transfer the mixture to a deep plate or dish. Set up a steamer or put
  a rack into a wok or large deep pot. Pour in 2 inches of water. Bring
  the water to a boil, and then reduce the heat. Lower the plate of
  spareribs carefully into the steamer or onto the rack. Cover it with
  a lid and steam gently for 1 hour or until the spareribs are very
  tender. Remember to k
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Beef With Orange
 Categories: Chinese, Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Boneless lean beef
      2 ts Dark soy sauce
      2 ts Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 ts Finely chopped ginger root
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Sesame oil
    1/3 c  Oil -- preferably peanut
      2    Dried red chiles -- cut in
           Half lengthwi
      1 tb Coarsely chopped orange peel
           (fresh) -=OR=-
      2 ts -soaked and coarsely chopped
           Dried citrus peel
    1/2 ts Ground Sichuan peppercorns
           (Roasted), (optional
      2 ts Dark soy sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Sesame oil
 
  CUT THE BEEF into thin slices 2 inches long, cutting against the
  grain. Put the beef into a bowl together with the soy sauce, rice
  wine or sherry, ginger, cornstarch and 1 teaspoon of sesame oil. Mix
  well, then let the mixture marinate for about 20 minute Heat the oil
  in a wok or large skillet until it is very hot. Remove the beef from
  the marinade with a slotted spoon. Add it to the pan and stir-fry it
  for 2 minutes until it browns. Remove it and leave to drain in a
  colander or sieve. Pour off most of the
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Celery
 Categories: Chinese, Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Chinese celery -- =OR=-
           European celer
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Finely chopped garlic
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
 
  SEPARATE THE STALKS OF THE CELERY from the center and with a sharp
  knife, string the tougher outside stalks. Then cut the celery into
  1-inch lengths. Heat a wok or large saute pan until it is hot. Add
  the oil, salt and garlic and stir-fry for 20 seconds. Pur in the
  celery and continue tostir-fry 2 minutes. Finally, pour in the
  chicken stock and continue to cook KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS
  COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Chicken Shreds
 Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Boneless chicken breasts --
           Skinned
      1    Egg white
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cornstarch
      6 oz Fresh bean sprouts
      4 oz Snow peas -- trimmed
      6    Fresh water chestnuts --
           OR-
      4 oz -Canned water chestnuts --
           (drained)
    2/3 c  Oil -- preferably peanut
      1 ts Salt
 
  CUT THE CHICKEN INTO VERY THIN shreds and combine these with the egg
  white, salt and cornstarch in a bowl. Mix well and chill in the
  refrigerator for about 20 minutes. Meanwhile, trim the bean sprouts,
  finely shred the snow peas lengthwise, and shred or s
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Eggs With Tomatoes (Jidan Chao Xih
 Categories: Chinese, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Eggs -- beaten
      2 ts Sesame oil
      1 ts Salt
      1 lb Fresh tomatoes
      6    Scallions -- whole
  1 1/2 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  IN A MEDIUM-SIZED BOWL, combine the eggs with the sesame oil and
  salt. Set aside. Cut the tomatoes into quarters and then into
  eighths. With the flat of a cleaver or knife, crush the scallions and
  then finely shred them. Heat a wok or large saute pan unti
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Longbeans
 Categories: Vegetables, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 oz Cloud ear fungus
    1/2 lb Chinese longbeans -- =OR=-
           Green beans
      1 lb Silk squash or zucchini
      2 tb Peanut oil
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots
      2 tb Coarsely chopped garlic
      2 ts Minced peeled fresh ginger
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
 
  SOAK THE CLOUD EAR FUNGUS in warm water for at least 15 minutes.
  Rinse them several times in cold running water to remove any sand.
  Drain thoroughly and set aside. If you are using the Chinese
  longbeans, trim the ends and cut them into 3-inch segments. If Peel
  off the tough outer skin of the silk squash and cut the vegetable at
  a slight diagonal into 2-inch pieces. Heat a wok or large saute pan
  until hot and add the oil. Put in theshallots, garlic, ginger, cloud
  ears and longbeans. Stir-fry for 1 minute, t
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Rice-Stick Noodles
 Categories: Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Thin rice-stick noodles
      6    Dried Chinese blk.
           Mushrooms
      1    Boneless chicken breast --
           Cut 1/3-in thick
      6 oz Strip Chinese barbecued
           Pork
      6 oz Medium shrimp
      3 tb Peanut or corn oil
      2 ts Finely chopped ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 sm Onion -- cut lengthwise
           Into
           Thin slices
      1    Stalk celery -- cut into
           Diagonal thin slices
    1/4 lb Small snow peas -- strings
           And stems re
    1/2    Green bell pepper -- seeded
           And sliced thin
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Indian Madras curry powder
           (or to taste)
      1 tb Light soy sauce -- (or more
           If needed)
      1 tb Dark soy sauce
    1/4 c  Chicken stock
      2    Green onions -- finely
           Shredded
 
  IN 2 SEPARATE MEDIUM BOWLS, cover rice-stick noodles and mushrooms
  with warm water for 20 minutes or until soft and pliable. Drain
  noodles, shake off excess water; set aside. Drain mushrooms and
  squeeze dry of excess water. Cut and discard stems at the ba Heat wok
  over medium heat until hot. Add 1 1/2 tablespoons of the oil and half
  the ginger and salt; gently saute until fragrant, about 30 seconds.
  Increase to high heat and, when hot, add the chicken, stir-fry for a
  few seconds, toss in shrimp and stir-fry together until both the
  chicken and shrimp feel firm to the touch. Mix in barbecued pork;
  remove and set aside. Add the remaining oil, ginger and Use
  chopsticks or tongs to lift, shake and separate strands of noodles
  until they are evenly coated with the seasonings. Continue
  stir-frying for another minute until the noodles are moist and begin
  to cling to each other. Add more chicken stock if noodle
  
  JOYCE JUE - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Scallops With Leeks
 Categories: Chinese, Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh scallops
      1 lb Leeks
  1 1/2 tb Oil -- preferably peanut
      2 tb Scallions -- coarsely
           Chopped
      1 tb Garlic -- coarsely chopped
      2 ts Fresh ginger -- finely
           Chopped
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Dark soy sauce
      2 ts Chili bean sauce
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      2 ts Sugar
      2 ts Sesame oil
 
  If the scallops are very large, cut them in half. They are cooked
  when they are slightly firm to the touch. I find scallops at their
  best when they are just barely cooked through. DRY THE SCALLOPS WITH
  PAPER TOWELS and set aside. Trim the leeks and discard any yellow
  parts. Cut the leeks at the point where they begin to turn green and
  discard the green parts. Split the white parts in half. Cut the white
  parts of the leeks at a slig
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Lemon Trifle
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts, Guestchefs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------GENOISE LAYER----------------------------
      4 lg Eggs
      1 pn Salt
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cake flour
      3 tb Cornstarch

MMMMM-----------------------LEMON FILLING----------------------------
    3/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      6    Egg yolks
  1 1/4 c  Whipping cream

MMMMM----------------------STRAWBERRY SYRUP---------------------------
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 pt Strawberries
      2 tb Kirsch
      1 c  Toasted sliced almonds
      2 pt Strawberries
      1 c  Whipping cream -- for
           Finishing
 
  FOR THE GENOISE: Preheat oven to 350F. Break the eggs into the bowl
  of an electric mixer and whisk in salt, then sugar. Place the bowl
  over a pan of simmering water and whisk until just lukewarm. Whip by
  machine until cold and increased in volume, about 4
  
  FOR THE LEMON FILLING: Combine lemon juice, sugar and butter in a
  non-reactive saucepan. Bring to a boil over low heat. Whisk yolks in
  a bowl and whisk in 1/3 mixture. Return remaining lemon mixture to a
  boil over low heat and whisk in yolk mixture. Conti
  
  FOR THE STRAWBERRY SYRUP: Combine water and sugar in a saucepan and
  bring to a boil. Rinse, hull and puree strawberries. Add puree and
  kirsch to syrup off the heat. Strain and chill. To assemble, rinse
  remaining berries and reserve six for a decoration. H Spread with 1/4
  of the lemon filling. Repeat with remaining ingredients, ending with
  a layer of cake slices and syrup. Whip remaining cream and spread
  half on the trifle. Decorateborder with remaining cream (pipe with a
  star tube) and reserved strawberrie Chill until serving time.
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  ===============   Reply    9 of Note    1 ================= Board:
  FOOD BB Topic:      FOOD SOFTWARE Subject:    Z-MM GUEST CHEF 4 99
  To: BGMB90B ELAINE RADIS          Date:    06/02 From:   BGMB90B
  ELAINE RADIS Time: 10:11 AM MM: STRAWBERRY LIME TART
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-And-Sour Red Peppers
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Red bell peppers
      2 tb Fruity olive oil
      1    Garlic clove -- thinly
           Sliced
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Tomato paste -- (the kind
           You squeez
           Out of a tube)
      1 tb Balsamic vinegar
        sm Basil leaves -- left whole,
           =OR=-
           Basil leaves -- shredded
 
  SLICE THE PEPPER INTO STRIPS 2- to 3-inches long and about 1/4-inch
  wide--or whatever width appeals to you. They can be very skinny, or
  nice and wide, too. Heat oil in a large skillet with the garlic. When
  it's hot, add the peppers, sprinkled with salt, and stir so that all
  are coated with the oil. Cook over a brisk heat, shaking the pan
  occasionally until the
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato-And-Onion Pizza
 Categories: Italian, Vegetarian, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Plum tomatoes
      1 ts Oregano
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 lb Onions -- sliced
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Rosemary
      1 tb Olive puree
      2    Pizza Crusts
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 375F. Wash tomatoes and cut off the stem ends. Cut
  into 1/3-inch lengthwise slices. Heat oil in a non-stick saute pan
  and saute the onions over medium-high heat for about 5 minutes. Add
  the garlic, white wine and rosemary and reduce heat t Sprinkle with
  oregano and bake.
  
  Makes 2 Pizzas PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tri-Tip Beef Roast
 Categories: Meats, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Shortening or Peanut Oil
           Salt and Pepper
  2 1/2 lb Tri-Tip Beef Roast
      6 md Carrots -- peeled &
           Parboiled
      8 md New Potatoes -- parboiled
      1 tb Dried Rosemary; crumbled --
           OR
      2 tb Fresh Rosemary
      2 md Onions -- peeled and sliced
    3/4 c  Water
 
  HEAT FAT IN LARGE SAUTE PAN or Dutch oven with lid. Liberally salt and
  pepper both sides of meat and brown in hot fat on both sides until
  colored a deep mahogany. Add carrots and potatoes and sprinkle with
  rosemary, salt and pepper. Add onion slices and water. Reduce heat to
  simmer. Cook, covered, 30 minutes. Check for doneness by cutting into
  thickest part of roast. It usually takes 35 to 45 minutes for medium
  rare. Don't overcook. Remember that meat continues to cook a little
  after it is removed from stove. Arrange meat and vegetables on
  platter and serve ho
  
  MARION CUNNINGHAM PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Two Ways With Acorn Squash
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 md Acorn squash
      8 tb Unsalted butter -- softened
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Grated nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 c  Real maple syrup

MMMMM----------------------FOR A VEGETABLE---------------------------
      4 sl Bacon -- cut in quarters

MMMMM------------------------FOR TIMBALES-----------------------------
      2    Eggs
 
  Can't make up your mind how fancy to get? Here are 2 presentations of
  this tasty squash--one homey and one for "dress-up." PREHEAT OVEN TO
  350F. Bring 1 quart water to a simmer. Cut squash in half
  horizontally and clean insides. Place cut-side down in a low-sided
  baking dish, fill with simmering water to about 1 inch. Bake 20
  minutes.
  
  AS A TRADITIONAL VEGETABLE: Combine butter, spices and maple syrup.
  Turn squash over and fill with the butter mixture. Top with bacon
  slices, crossed. Return to oven and cook until the tip of a sharp
  knife easily pierces the flesh, about 30-40 minutes. Se
  
  AS TIMBALES: Turn the squash over after the first 20 minutes in the
  oven and add 1 tablespoon of butter to each half. Bake until they can
  easily be pierced with a sharp knife, about 30-40 minutes. Carefully
  scoop out the flesh into a mixing bowl, reservin
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Updated Mincemeat
 Categories: Pie/tart, Guestchefs
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    3/4 lb Unsalted butter or margarine
           OR beef suet
    3/4 lb Raisins
    3/4 lb Currants
    3/4 lb Sultanas
    3/4 lb Chopped apples
      3 oz Citron
      3 oz Candied lemon peel
      3 oz Candied orange peel
    1/2 lb Almonds
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Mace
    1/8 ts Allspice
    1/8 ts White pepper
    3/4 c  Brandy
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 325F. Combine all ingredients and grind twice through
  the finest blade of your meat grinder. Place in a lidded oven-proof
  pot and place in the oven. Bake for 40 minutes. Remove from oven and
  stir in brandy. Store the mincemeat in a cool pl
  
  Makes 2 Pies MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Sausage
 Categories: Vegetables, Main dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Mixed vegetables -- such as
           Artichoke he
           Asparagus, mushrooms --
           Broccoli or cauliflo
      1 c  Cooked spinach -- chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 md Onions -- roughly diced
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
    3/4 c  Egg whites
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Salt -- or as desired
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
      1 ts Fresh rosemary leaves -OR-
    1/2 ts -Dried rosemary leaves
      4    Feet sausage casing
 
  ROUGHLY CHOP VEGETABLES into 1/4-inch pieces and set aside on a
  plate. Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat, add the
  onion and cook, stirring, for 5 minutes. Decrease heat to low, add
  the vegetables and cook for 10 minutes. Remove vegetables f
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Veloute Of Fennel
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Guestchefs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     10 tb Unsalted butter
      6 lg Heads fennel -- trimmed and
           Thinly s
      6 tb Unbleached all-purpose
           Flour
      8 c  Chicken stock -- preferably
           Homemade
      4    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Whipping cream
           Salt
           Pepper
           Chopped fresh chives -- for
           Garnish
 
  MELT 4 TABLESPOONS OF BUTTER in a large, heavy skillet over medium
  heat. Add the fennel, cover and slowly braise, stirring occasionally,
  until the fennel is completely softened and lightly browned, about 30
  minutes. Transfer it to a food processor fitted Add the flour and
  stir with a wooden spoon until the flour is cooked but still light in
  color, 3-to-4 minutes. Slowly add the stock to the flour mixture,
  stirring constantly. Bring it to a boil, then reduce the heat to low
  and simmer gently for 30 minutes Season to taste with salt and
  pepper. Ladle into warm bowls and garnish with chives.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Wine-Marinated Squid
 Categories: Seafood, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Minced garlic
    1/4 c  Minced onions
      1 ts White pepper
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Squid; body cut into rounds
           Tentacles left whole
 
  PLACE ALL INGREDIENTS except squid in a 1-quart pot and bring to a
  boil over high heat on the stove. Add the squid, cook 30 seconds and
  immediately remove from the heat. Pour the contents of the pot into a
  glass bowl, cover with a plate and let cool to ro Serve over lettuce
  or chilled pasta.
  
  MICHAEL ROBERTS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Green Salad
 Categories: Salads, Guestchefs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Escarole leaves -- =OR=-
           Curly Endive L
           (the inner white ones) --
        sm Spinach Leaves
           Hearts of Romaine -- or a
           Mixture
      4 c  Mixed greens -- such as:
           Tender Mustard Greens --
           Radish Leaves, Arugu
           Leaves, Watercress -- Rock
           Cress or Field Cress --
           Nasturtium Leaves, t
           Dandelion Leaves -- Dill or
           Fennel Greens and Hyssop --
           Leaves and Blossoms
     20    Mint leaves
     12    Sorrel leaves -- torn or
           Sliced
      4    Scallions; chopped --
           =OR=-
           Onions -- sliced
    1/4 c  Sunflower seeds -- toasted

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 tb Plain or herbal vinegar --
           Such as tarragon vin
           Salt
      5 tb Sunflower seed oil --
           =OR=-Extra-virgin ol
           Walnut oil
 
  WASH AND DRY all the greens. Tear or cut them into whatever size you
  like, and put them into a large bowl with the scallions and toasted
  sunflower seeds. Pour over the dressing (RECIPE Follows) and toss
  well.
  
  DRESSING: Whisk everything together, taste, and adjust with more
  vinegar or oil as needed.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Pecan Rice Salad With Chicken
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Guestchefs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2    Cooked chickens -- skinned,
           Boned,
           Meat cut into cubes
      7 oz Wild Pecan Rice -- cooked
           According to
 
  package instructions -- and cooled 3 ounces Pecan halves -- lightly
  toasted and coarsely chopped 1 1/2 cups Thinly sliced scallions --
  including most of th green parts 12 Cherry tomatoes -- split 2 large
  Ripe avocados -- peeled and cubed 1 1/2 cups Cooked or canned chick
  peas -- drained 1 large Garlic clove -- peeled 1/3 cup Rice vinegar 2
  tablespoons Soy sauce 1/4 cup Sesame oil 1/4 cup Vegetable oil Salt
  Freshly ground black pepper
  
  IN A LARGE BOWL, combine the chicken, rice, pecans, scallions,
  tomatoes and avocados. In the bowl of a food processor fitted with a
  steel chopping blade, combine the chick peas, garlic, vinegar and soy
  sauce, and process into a smooth paste. With the moto Toss again and
  serve.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yan Jian Rou (Chili Pork)
 Categories: Meats, Chinese, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Lean pork
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
      1 pn Salt
      2 ts Sesame oil
      3 tb Peanut oil
      8 oz Fresh mild chiles
      3 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 ts Red chili powder -- =OR=-
           Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Sichuan peppercorns --
           Roasted
           And crushed
      3 tb Water
      1 tb Light soy sauce
      2 ts Sugar
 
  CUT THE PORK into 3-inch thin slices and combine with the soy sauce, 1
  tablespoon rice wine, salt and sesame oil. Cut the chiles in half
  lengthwise and seed them. Heat a wok or large saute pan until it is
  hot. Add 1 1/2 tablespoons of peanut oil and the pork, and stir-fry
  for 1 minute. Remove the pork with a slotted spoon. Reheat the wok
  and add the remaining oil. When it is very hot, add the fresh chiles,
  garlic, Return the meat to the wok and heat through. Give the mixture
  several good stirs, turn onto a platter, and serve. Serves 4 as part
  of a Chinese meal or 2 as a single dish.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini-And-Tomato Gratin
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Guestchefs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Fruity olive oil
      1 lg Onion -- quartered
           Thinly sliced
      2    Garlic cloves -- thinly
           Sliced
    1/2 ts Herbes de Provence -- (If
           You don't have
           Herbes de Provence -- use a
           Little chopped rosemary --
           Thyme and sage)
           Salt and pepper
  1 1/2 lb Summer squash -- sliced
           Into
           Ovals 1/4-in thick
    1/2 lb Tomatoes -- sliced into
           Rounds
           Plum or lge. cherry)
      2 tb Nicoise olives
           Lemon wedges
 
  PREHEAT THE OVEN TO 375F. Warm a tablespoon of oil in a large pan and
  add the onion, garlic and half the herbes de Provence, and salt
  lightly. Stew gently for about 5 minutes, then remove the onions to a
  gratin dish and spread them evenly over the bottom. Distribute the
  zucchini over the onions; arrange them casually. Tuck in the slices
  of tomato here and there, along with the olives. Drizzle the
  remaining oil over the top. Cover with foil and bake for 25 minutes.
  Remove the foil and continue to bake another 10 minutes or so, or
  until the squash is tender and the juices are reduced. Allow to cool
  and serve warm or tepid.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lone Star Brownies
 Categories: Chocolate, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      1 tb Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Cocoa
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      2 c  Miniature marshmallows
     12 oz Pkg. semi-sweet chocolate
           -- morsels
 
     Melt butter.  Add sugar, eggs and vanilla.  Stir well.  Stir in
  flour, cocoa and salt and beat with spoon about 30 times.  Stir in
  pecans and pour into greased and floured baking dish.  Bake at 350
  degrees for 30 - 35 minutes.  Remove from oven and sprinkle with
  marshmallows and chocolate morsels.  Bake another five minutes to
  soften marshmallows. Let cool for 10 minutes, then lightly swirl the
  marshmallows and chocolate chips to give a "marbled" icing.
  
  NOTE: One of our favorites are my own special brownies. I named them
  `Lone Star Brownies.'  My reason for giving my brownies that name is
  because I had always heard that things in Texas are bigger, better,
  and richer -- usually all three.
  
  This is a variation of an old favorite, Mississippi Mud.  Adding more
  pecans and dark chocolate just make these brownies extra rich!
  
  ~ Lisa Carroll (Mrs. Donnie Carroll) printed in the Brownwood
  Bulletin, July 2, `95
  
  posted by teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rutabaga Description And Serving Suggestions
 Categories: Information, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------RUTABAGA-------------------------------
 
  Common Names: Rutabaga, Swedish Turnip, Swede, Russian Turnip, Yellow
  Turnip
  
  Botanical Name: Brassica Napobrassica
  
  Origin: Northern Europe
  
  DESCRIPTION Rutabaga is a hardy biennial grown as an annual. It has a
  rosette of smooth, grayish-green leaves that grow from the swollen
  stem, and it has a root that can be yellow, purple, or white. The
  rutabaga can be distinguished from the turnip by the leaf scars on
  its top, and the leaves are more deeply lobed than the turnip's. As
  vegetables go, rutabagas are a fairly modern invention. They were
  created less than 200 years ago by crossing a cabbage with a turnip
  (probably Swedish).
  
  WHERE AND WHEN TO GROW Rutabagas are very hardy and grow better in
  cool weather. They like a definite difference between night and day
  temperatures. In hot weather they produce lots of leaves, but small
  stringy roots. Plant them in late summer in the North, and in the
  fall in the South or where the weather gets very hot.
  
  WHEN AND HOW TO HARVEST Time from planting to harvest is 90 to 100
  days, and a 10 foot row may give you over 10 pounds of rutabagas if
  the weather has been right. To harvest, dig up the whole roots when
  the rutabagas are three to five inches in diameter. Store rutabagas
  in a cold, moist place for two to four months; do not refrigerate.
  They can also be frozen.
  
  SERVING SUGGESTIONS Peel rutabagas and steam or boil until tender;
  then mash them for use in puddings and pancakes. They can also be
  served sliced or diced. Add rutabagas to vegetable soups and stews.
  Saute them in butter with apples and brown sugar. Rutabaga is very
  good with lots of butter or sour cream; low-calorie alternatives are
  yogurt or low-fat cream cheese.
  
  Source: Vegetable Gardening Encyclopedia Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crockpot Peppers & Steak
 Categories: Crockpot, Chinese, Meats, Asian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Lean round steak;1-in thick
      2    Green peppers;*
      1 c  Beef bouillon
    1/4 c  Low-sodium soy sauce
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
 
  *Seeded and cut into 1/2 inch strips. Cut steak into serving portions.
  Place half the steak in crock-pot. Arrange green pepper strips around
  steak.  Place remaining steak on top. Mix remaining ingredients and
  pour over meat.  Cover and cook on LOW setting for 8 to 10 hours (on
  HIGH setting for 3 to 4 hours).
  Submitted By KOUNTRY COOK #1 @1912232*   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Pineapple Cake
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pt Blueberries
     18 oz Yellow cake mix
      8 oz Can Crushed pineapple
      1 c  Nuts
    3/4 c  Melted margarine/butter
 
  Pour berries in a greased 9 X 13 inch pan.  Cover with pineapple and
  all its juice.  Sprinkle with dry cake mix.  Scatter nuts on top.
  Drizzle butter over all.  Bake for 45 minutes at 350 degrees.
  Submitted By DOROTHY THOMPSON   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Blackberry Cobbler (Sam Waring)
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           This is one of the few
           -recipes that my wife (who
           -doesn't cook)
           Makes, and it is indeed
           -very good.
      4 c  Fresh blackberries
    3/4 c  + 2 Tbsp sugar
      3 tb + 1 3/4 c flour
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Shortening
      6 tb Whipping cream
      6 tb Buttermilk or sour milk
      2 tb Butter, melted
           Cream & sugar (optional)
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Place berries in a lightly greased
  2-quart baking dish. Combine 3/4 c sugar and 3 Tbsp flour; add water
  and lemon juice, mixing well.  Pour syrup over berries; bake about 15
  minutes while preparing the pastry. Make pastry by combining 1 3/4 c
  flour, 2 Tbsp sugar, baking powder, and salt. Cut in shortening until
  mixture resembles coarse crumbs; stir in whipping cream and
  buttermilk. Knead dough 4 or 5 times; roll to about 1/4" thickness on
  a lightly floured surface. Cut dough to fit baking dish. Raise oven
  temperature to 425. Place pastry over hot berries; brush with melted
  butter.  Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, or until pastry is golden brown.
  Serve cobbler warm with cream and sugar. Serves 8 Southern Living
  Magazine
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By LAURA HAMRICK  SUBJ BLACKBERRIES    On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Chili Oil - Country Living
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------YIELD: 1 1-LITER BOTTLE-----------------------
    1/4 c  Small dried red chilies
  3 3/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 ea Into bottle, insert chilies
           -and add oil. Seal and let
           -stand in cool
 
  and bright but not sunny place for a month or so. 2. Check the peppery
  intensity. If it is to your liking, store chil1 oil in a cool, dark
  place or in the refrigerator. Use this flavorful oil for stir-frying
  food or as a dip for cooked foods. it's also great for marinating
  meats for grilling. The longer the chilies steep in the oil, the
  stronger the flavor. Country Living/Sept/90  Scanned & fixed by DP &
  GG
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By LENORE LOCKEN  SUBJ HERBED OILS    On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basil Oil - Martha Stewart Living
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Condiments
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------YIELD: 1/2 CUP----------------------------
      1 lg Bunch basil leaves
    1/2 c  Light virgin olive oil
      1 ea Wash and dry basil leaves,
           -and layer them in a flat
           -dish. Cover with
 
  oil and place a layer of cheesecloth over dish. Leave covered dish in
  the sun for 6 hours. 2. Strain oil 3 times through a strainer lined
  with 5 or 6 layers of damp cheesecloth; do not press down on the
  solids. Funnel oil into a glass jar and refrigerate. Since flavored
  oils will keep in the refrigerater for only two to three weeks, it is
  best to make small quantities, replenishing them as needed. Martha
  Stewart Living/June & July/94 Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By LENORE LOCKEN  SUBJ HERBED OILS    On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cilantro Oil - Martha Stewart Living
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Condiments
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------YIELD: 1/2 CUP----------------------------
      1 c  Cilantro leaves
    1/2 c  Light virgin olive oil
      1 ea Blanch cilantro for 30
           -seconds in boiling water.
           -Immediately plunge
 
  into ice water to refresh; pat with a paper towel until completely
  dry. 2. Puree cilantro in a blender with oil until mixture is creamy.
  Pour into a jar and shake well. Refrigerate overnight. 3. Let mixture
  warm to room temperature. Pour through a strainer hned with 5 or 6
  layers of damp cheesecloth; do not press down on the solids.
  Refrigerate oil in a covered jar. You may also use basil, parsley, or
  mint leaves. Since flavored oils will keep in the refrigerater for
  only two to three weeks, it is best to make small quantities,
  replenishing them as needed. Martha Stewart Living/June & July/94
  Scanned & fixed by Di and Gary
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By LENORE LOCKEN  SUBJ HERBED OILS    On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic-Lover's Oil - Country Living
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------YIELD: 1 1-LITER BOTTLE-----------------------
      1 lg Head garlic
  3 3/4 c  Vegetable oil or light olive
           -oil
           Garlic-chive flowers (opt.)
      1 ea Separate garlic into
           -individual cloves,
           -reserving 4 or 5 cloves.
 
  Lightly crush remaining garlic cloves; peel and coarsely chop them.
  2. In large jar, place crushed garlic and cover with oil; seal
  tightly. Store in the refrigerator a week to 10 days. 3. Strain the
  garlic-flavored oil and pour into a 1-liter bottle. Peel reserved
  garlic cloves and thread onto a long wooden skewer. Insert skewer
  into bottle along with garlic-chive flowers, if desired. Seal and
  store bottle in the refrigerator. Ideal for stir-frying, this
  garlic-infused oil should always be kept refrigerated in the coldest
  part of the refrigerator (38' F) to reduce the risk of botulism.
  Unrefrigerated garlic-in-oil mixes can permit the growth of
  Clostridium butulinum bacteria, a toxin that does not affect the
  taste or smell of the oil. Spores of this bacteria are commonly found
  in the environment and sometimes on produce such as garlic. These
  spores are harmless when there is oxygen present. But, when
  spore-containing garlic is bottled and covered with oil, an
  oxygen-free environment is created that promotes the germination of
  the spores with subsequent toxin production resulting at temperatures
  of 50'F or above. Country Living/Sept/90 Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By LENORE LOCKEN  SUBJ HERBED OILS    On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vereshchaka - Ukrainaian Pork Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew, Meats, Ukrainian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Pork, boneless & cubed 1"
      4 ea Bacon, thick slices
    3/4 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Black pepper
      3 ea Onions chopped coarsely
      3 c  Beet kvas
      1 ts Dill freshly chopped
      3 c  Rye bread crumbs <no crusts>
      2 tb Carrots shredded
      1 ea Garlic clove minced
 
  fry the bacon in heavy skillet. Remove the bacon from the skillet and
  set aside. Fry the onion & garlic in the bacon grease. Add the pork
  cubes, salt & pepper, then cook while turning until pork is done.
  Crumble the bacon in a large stew pot. Pour in the beet kvas and
  bring the pot to a boil. Reduce the heat, cover, and simmer for 1/2
  an hour. Stir in the rye bread crumbs & carrots, recover and simmer
  for 1/2 hour more. Serve over blini or boiled potatos garnished with
  the chopped dill. Origin: Aleksa Gotushenko, Kiev, Ukraine, circa 1995
  Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beet Kvas
 Categories: Ukrainian, East europe, Beverages, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 quarts
 
      4 lb Beets,<no tops>
           - water lukewarm
 
  Grate the beets. Place the grated beets in alarge crock and cover
  with the lukewarm water. Cover securely and place in a warm place.
  Keep covered for 6 days then it is ready. Skim the resultant scum
  form the top and pour through a clean cheese cloth into a clean jar.
  Keep refrigerated. This will keep refrigerated for 12-14 days. It
  should be deep red in color and have a sour smell. If mold grows on
  the beets this is normal. Origin: Aleksa Gotushenko, Kiev, Ukraine,
  circa 1995 Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Wild Rice With Red Onions
 Categories: Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Rice wild uncooked
      5 md Onion red
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Place wild rice in a large pot with 2 cups of boiling water. Cover
  and let sit 30 minutes. Then drain. Place onions chopped into 1/2
  inch pieces in a heavy skillet. Add 1 cup water, 2 tbs red wine
  vinegar and 1 tbs of olive oil. Bring to a boil stir well, lower heat
  to simmer, cover and cook for 5 to 7 minutes until onions are
  rosey-pink and tender. Remove from heat and let cool a few minutes.
  Drain onions and reserve the liquid. Combine reserved liquid with
  water to measure 2 1/2 cups: add to drained rice with a pinch of
  salt. Bring to a boil. Cover then simmer over very low heat for 45 to
  55 minutes until rice is tender but chewy. Turn off heat and let sit
  for 5 minutes then drain off any excess liquid. Combine the rice and
  onions. Add 1 tbs red wine vinegar, 1 tbs olive oil and toss. ---end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Spicy Black Bean Stew
 Categories: Vegetables, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
      2 md Onion
      2 md Pepper green
      2 tb Garlic clove minced
      1 ea Celery stalk
    1/2 c  Carrots, cubed
     15 oz Black beans canned
      3 ts Chili powder
      8 oz V8 juice
      8 oz Canned chilies
 
  In a skillet over medium high heat, bring broth to simmering; add
  chopped onions and bell peppers and garlic. Cover and steam 3
  minutes. Spoon into slow cooker. Add remaining ingredients. Cook on
  low for 6 to 8 hours until stew thickens. Serve over baked potato,
  rice or pasta. ---end Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sopapilla
 Categories: Breads, Tex/mexican, Desserts
      Yield: 18 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 1 SERVINGS--------------------------
      2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      2 ea Tb Shortening or oil
    1/2 c  +3-4 tb cold water
           Oil for frying
           Honey or cinnamon & sugar
 
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt together into small bowl of elec-
  tric mixer.  Add shortening. Blend at lowest speed of mixer,
  gradually adding cold water until mixture is moistened but not
  sticky. Turn dough onto lightly floured board and knead until smooth.
  Divide dough into quarters. Form each quarter into ball then roll out
  as thinly as possible on lightly floured board into circle. Cut
  circle into pie-shaped wedges. Dough may be cut into squares or
  rectangles, if desired. Heat oil in deep skillet to 400 degrees. Fry
  sopaipillas until lightly browned on 1 side, then turn and brown on
  other side. Drain on paper towels. Serve with honey or sprinkle with
  sugar and cinnamon. Makes 18 sopaipillas. Each serving, without honey
  or sugar, contains about: 69 calories; 178 mg sodium; 0 cholesterol;
  3 grams fat; 10 grams carbohydrates; 1 gram protein; 0.04 gram fiber.
  
  Submitted By MARGE CLARK   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Americanized Chicken Chop Suey
 Categories: Crockpot, Chinese, Asian, Poultry
      Yield: 4 (to 6)
 
      2 ea Whole chicken breasts,
           . skinned, halved & boned
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Minced crystallized ginger
      1 c  Sliced celery
      1 cn (5 oz.) water chestnuts,
           . drained & sliced
      1 ea Onion, sliced
      2 c  Chicken bouillon
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1 cn (1-lb.) can bean sprouts,
           . drained
           Cooked rice
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds
 
  Cut chicken into strips about 2 inches long and 1/2 inch thick. Place
  in slow-cooking pot (crockpot) with salt, ginger, celery, water
  chestnuts, onion, bouillon, and soy sauce.  Cover and cook on low 5
  to 6 hours. Turn control to high.  Add mushrooms and bean sprouts.
  Cover and cook on high 15 minutes.  Serve over hot rice.  Sprinkle
  with almonds. Serve with extra soy sauce if desired.  Makes 4 to 6
  servings. Submitted By KOUNTRY COOK #1 @1912232*   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ANT/ROACH KILLER
 Categories: Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Powdered boric acid *
      1 ts Sugar (confectioners or
           -granulated)
           -Pepsi Cola (optional) **
 
  * (boric acid may be obtained at most any drug store) ** Coca Cola or
  RC will work but I prefer to drink them and consign Pepsi to this
  fate.
  
  Mix boric acid and sugar until well combined. Add Pepsi and mix until
  you have a thick semi-liquid paste. Put mixture in bottle caps and
  place in areas where bugs are active. Wait a few days and bug traffic
  will dwindle and die off. Keep one or two caps on duty in case of
  second attack.
  
  There are two types of ants... sugar seeking ants and oil seeking
  ants. If you are after ants and this doesn't get them - substitute
  butter, oil, or margarine for the sugar in the receipe and forget
  about the Pepsi (not a bad idea, anyway B^)= ). Nasty old cucaroaches
  don't care. Either mixture will zap them just as dead.
  
  Now, for the bonus... this stuff is non-lethal to pets and humans.
  It's environmentally friendly. It's cheap. It's so politically
  correct it ought to run for office. And best of all - IT WORKS!!!
  
  Tested and approved in (hanging head and scuffing toe in dirt) Uncle
  Dirty Dave's Kitchen. With many thanks to retired Ag Science teacher
  and ex F-I-L, Bill Renaud of Mt. Auburn, IL.
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cape May Monkfish Brochettes
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Monkfish; cut in 1-in cubes
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Parsley; chopped
      1    Garlic cloves; minced
    1/2 ts Oregano
    1/8 ts Pepper
     16    Cherry tomatoes
 
  Combine olive oil, lemon juice, parsley, garlic, and seasonings in a
  shallow dish.  Add monkfish cubes, toss to coat.  Cover and
  refrigerate 1 hour.  Drain fish, reserving marinade.  Alternate
  monkfish and tomatoes on 4 skewers.  Place skewers on a lightly oiled
  grill, approximately 4-6 inches from moderately hot coals.  Grill
  8-10 minutes. Monkfish is done when firm and opaque. (Or microwave on
  high about 4 minutes. Allow to stand 5 minutes before serving.)
  Include squares of green pepper and serve with yellow rice. (American
  Seafood Institute) Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Mahi-Mahi Kebabs Belize
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fish fillets *
      1 lg Papaya; not too ripe
      1 lg Plantain OR
           -underripe banana
           Vegetable oil (for grill)
           Cilantro sprigs to garnish

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Onion; minced
      3 tb Cilantro; minced
      1 tb Curry powder
           Salt and pepper
 
  * mahi-mahi, swordfish, shark, halibut
  
  Rinse the mahi-mahi and pat dry with paper towels. Cut the fish into
  1-inch cubes. In a shallow dish, combine the marinade ingredients and
  mix well. Add the cubes of fish and toss to thoroughly coat. Cover
  and refrigerate for 1 hour. If using bamboo skewers, soak them in a
  bowl of cold water for at least 30 minutes before grilling.
  
  Meanwhile, halve the papaya and scoop out and discard the seeds. peel
  away the skin with a small knife or vegetable peeler. Cut the papaya
  into 1-inch cubes. peel the plantain and cut across into 1-inch
  pieces. Preheat the grill to high, or heat coals until they glow red,
  with white ash around the edges.
  
  Take the fish cubes from the marinade, allowing excess to drip off;
  reserve the marinade. Thread the fish onto the skewers, alternating
  with pieces of papaya and plantain. Do not crowd ingredients on the
  kebabs, but leave a little space between so they will cook evenly.
  Rub a lightly oiled towel or cloth over the grill, add the kebabs to
  the hot grill and cook until well browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Brush a
  little marinade over the kebabs, then turn and continue cooking until
  the fish is opaque through, about 5 minutes.
  
  Simply Seafood Summer 1994
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Insalata di Carciofi (Artichoke Salad)
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    To 16 medium-sized
           -artichokes
      3 tb Olive oil
      1    Garlic clove, crushed
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2    Lemon, sliced razor thin
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
      6 tb High-quality extra virgin
           -olive oil
  1 1/2 tb To 2 tb Fresh Italian
           -parsley, finely minced
      1 sm Onion, minced
           About 20 small black olives
           -pitted and chopped
           Salt
           Fresh black pepper
 
  1. Trim the artichokes of tough leaves, spines and ragged stem ends.
  Heat the regular olive oil in a heavy skillet that can be covered.
  Saute the garlic and remove. Place the artichokes in bottom-side down
  and cook over low heat for ten minutes. Add the bay leaf and a half
  cup of water, bring to boil, reduce heat to simmering, cover and cook
  for 15 to 20 minutes or until artichokes are just tender on the
  inside.
  
  2. When the artichokes are cool enough to handle comfortably, peel
  off the leaves and reserve. Remove the hairy choke and discard. If
  the bottoms are large, slice them in halves, or quarters. If small,
  leave them whole. Toss with the lemon juice.
  
  3. Scrape the succulent meat from the bottom part of the larger
  leaves and place in a bowl with the olive oil, 2/3rds of the parsley,
  salt and pepper to taste. Mix well, until bound. You may use an
  electric mixer on this.
  
  4. Pour over the artichoke bottoms and lemon juice, gently mixing
  with a big wooden spoon. Arrange on a platter with lemon slices,
  sprinkle with minced onion, olives and more parsley. Toss before
  serving. Serve at room temperature with good crusty bread.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tagliatelle coi Carciofi (Tagliatelle with Artichokes)
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 sm To medium artichokes
      1    Lemon
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 oz Pancetta, minced
      1 md Onion
    1/4 c  White wine
      1 c  Chicken broth, homemade if
           -possible
 
  One pound fresh tagliatelle Parmigiano cheese Salt Freshly ground
  black pepper
  
  1. In a bowl large enough to accommodate the following, mix the juice
  of the lemon and enough water to cover the 4 artichokes and the hull
  of the lemon. Pull off the tough outer leaves of the artichokes.
  Slice the artichokes lengthwise into bite-size pieces and slip into
  the acidulated water for approximately 1/2 hour to soften them.
  
  2. Meanwhile, heat the oil and butter together in a heavy skillet,
  add the pancetta and onion, and cook until lightly golden brown.
  
  3. Drain the artichokes and douse them, in the same bowl, with the
  white wine. Place them in the skillet and cook over medium-low,
  tossing. When the liquid disappears, add the broth. Cook covered for
  1/2 hour. Reduce the liquid to a sauce-like consistency. Add salt and
  black pepper to taste. Serve over tagliatelle cooked al dente.
  Sprinkle with the grated cheese. Source: Journal of Italian Food &
  Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frittata di Carciofi (Artichoke Omelette)
 Categories: Vegetables, Breakfast, Cheese/eggs, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Artichokes
      1    Lemon
      2 tb Minced Italian parsley
    1/2 md Onion minced
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Six eggs, beaten with 2 tablespoons water Salt Freshly ground black
  pepper
  
  1. Remove tough outer leaves of the artichokes, slice in very thin
  slices, lengthwise and place in a bowl with lemon juice for 1/2 hour.
  
  2. Heat 1 tablespoon butter in a heavy skillet and cook onion until
  translucent, then remove. Add 1 tablespoon olive oil and heat to
  medium.
  
  3. Drain the artichokes and pat dry. Slip them into the hot oil
  carefully. Cook, browning slightly, until they are tender. Remove,
  drain on paper, salt and pepper them.
  
  4. Pre-heat the broiler. Wipe the skillet out so that no hardened
  particles remain. Put in the remaining butter and oil, heat to
  medium, add half the egg mixture, arrange the artichokes on top,
  sprinkle with the onion and parsley, then the rest of the eggs. Cook
  until the bottom is just set. Run under the broiler to barely brown
  the top. If you like, you may dust with a little Pecorino cheese
  before running under the broiler. Serve hot, warm, or at room
  temperature. This also is delicious on a sandwich, or with a salad on
  the side.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frittata di Carciofi, II (Artichoke Omelette, Another Ver
 Categories: Vegetables, Breakfast, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Artichokes
      1    Lemon
      4 tb Olive oil
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 sm Onion
      2 tb Drained, rinsed capers
      2    Ripe tomatoes sliced thin
           -and seeded
      8    To 10 black olives pitted
           -and chopped
      1 tb Fresh oregano or small pinch
           -dried
      6    Eggs beaten with 2
           -tablespoons water
 
  Frittata di Carciofi, II (Artichoke Omelette, Another Version)
  
  Salt Freshly ground black pepper
  
  1. Follow the procedure for the artichokes in the preceding recipe.
  
  2. Saute the garlic and onion in 1 tablespoon olive oil until lightly
  golden and remove.
  
  3. Pre-heat the broiler. Beat the oregano into the egg mixture and
  pour a little more than half into a preheated heavy skillet that has
  been thoroughly greased with olive oil. Mix the artichokes, capers,
  olives, onions, garlic and put 3/4 of this mixture on top of the
  eggs, spreading evenly. Layer all but 5 slices of the tomato over the
  vegetables. Pour the remaining egg mixture on top and stud with
  reserved ingredients in an attractive pattern. Cook until eggs are
  just set, then run under the broiler until just brown. Dust with a
  little Pecorino cheese before browning if you wish. Serve with a
  green salad, or a green bean salad.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carciofi alla Giudia (Artichokes Jewish Style)
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Smallish artichokes
      2    Lemons
      1    Small, hot red pepper,
           -minced
 
  For those unfamiliar with the cooking of the ancient Jewish community
  of Rome, this is a great introduction. Much of this cuisine is
  reflective of the Middle-eastern origins of the Jewish people and
  their role as conduits for the exchange of culture between East and
  West So, in the Roman-Jewish cuisine, one finds influences from as
  far away as India and Persia, as well as from North Africa and
  Spain's Sephardic/Arab culture. A book that covers the overall
  cuisine of Jews in Italy is appropriately named The Classic Cuisine
  of The Italian Jews by Edda Servi Machlin.
  
  Extra virgin olive oil Water for sprinkling Salt Freshly ground black
  pepper
  
  1. Prepare a bowl of water acidulated with the juice of one lemon.
  The bowl must be large enough to accommodate all the artichokes, or
  you may use two smaller bowls. Wash the artichokes and pull off the
  tough outer leaves. Slice the very tops of the remaining leaves and
  slip into the lemon water. Leave for 1/2 to 1 full hour.
  
  2. Heat about 2-inches of olive oil to medium-low. Take 3 or 4
  artichokes at a time, dry them off and gently spread the leaves with
  your fingers. Place each one upside down on a cutting board and push
  down gently but steadily so that the leaves splay out. Do not break
  the leaves. Sprinkle with salt and the red pepper.
  
  3. Place artichokes headside down in the oil and begin cooking. From
  time to time press down on them to keep them as flat as possible
  without breaking the leaves off.
  
  4. The size of your artichokes will have much to do with how fast they
  cook. However, after 5 to 7 minutes, turn them as best you can and
  cook for 3 minutes each side. Then cook 3 minutes bottom-side down.
  Raise the heat to just the high side of medium and turn them upside
  down once more so that the artichokes begin to brown without burning.
  Have on hand a long-tined fork. After this browning occurs, pierce
  the centers with a fork. The insides should be tender.
  
  5. Remove from the hot oil and immediately sprinkle generously with
  cold water on the outside. This should make the leaves crispy and
  crunchy, providing the desired contrast with the soft centers. In
  Italian this exterior crispness is called la crosticina croccante.
  Serve with lemon, salt and fresh black pepper.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carciofi alla Romana (Artichokes Roman Style)
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Fresh, large artichokes
      1    Lemon
      2    Cloves garlic, minced with
           -->
      2 tb Minced fresh Italian
           -parsley, and
     12 tb Minced fresh mint
    3/4 c  Chicken broth
    3/4 c  Dry white wine
      8 tb Extra virgin olive oil
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  1. Remove large outer leaves of artichokes. With a sharp scissor,
  trim the remaining outer leaves so that they are about 1-1/2 inches
  long, squaring them off neatly in the process. Square off the bottoms
  so the artichokes will sit upright while cooking. With a very sharp
  knife, slice the top of the artichoke off about 1/2 inch down,
  removing any spines that stick out. Rub the cut edges as you go along
  with the open side of a split lemon.
  
  2. Gently open the leaves and in each of the outer openings, stuff a
  bit of the mint-parsley-garlic mixture.
  
  3. In a deep casserole that can be fitted with a cover big enough to
  accommodate the artichokes in one layer standing upright, heat 2
  tablespoons of the olive oil. Place the artichokes, bottoms down, in
  the pan, add the white wine and broth, bring to a boil, lower to a
  simmer and cover loosely. After 15 minutes, check artichokes for
  tenderness by piercing with a long-tined fork. Finish cooking if need
  be, remove to a warm platter, reduce sauce and drizzle on top of each
  artichoke. Serve warm, but not blazingly hot.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carciofi con Guganciale (Artichokes with Bacon)
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Herbs/spice, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 sm Artichokes
      1    Lemon
      6    Ounces, very lean unsmoked
           -bacon
      4 tb Extra virgin olive oil
    3/4 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Fine fresh bread crumbs
 
  1. Remove the outer layer of leaves from the artichokes. Squeeze the
  lemon into a large bowl of water and let the artichokes remain in it
  for 1/2 hour.
  
  2. Slice the bacon into thin strips, 1/2 inch long. Saute the bacon
  slices in the olive oil. Remove bacon and discard drippings. Heat
  remaining olive oil to medium low.
  
  3. Meanwhile drain and towel dry the artichokes. Slice them the long
  way in quarters and slowly cook in the oil, turning frequently,
  browning lightly. When done, remove artichokes and drain on paper for
  a few minutes, then place in a bowl and toss with the bacon, some
  salt and freshly ground black pepper. Spritz with lemon juice and
  serve immediately.
  
  To turn the above recipe into sauce for pasta...
  
  In addition to the above you will need:
  
  1 clove of garlic minced 3 ripe red tomatoes, peeled, seeded and
  chopped 2 tablespoons chopped mint 1/3 cup of chicken or vegetable
  broth, reduced by half 1 to 2 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil
  Pecorino cheese 12 ounces rigatoni
  
  1. Proceed exactly the same as in above recipe through step 3.
  
  2. In the oil in which you have cooked the artichokes, saute the
  garlic briefly without browning. Stir in the tomatoes, chopped mint
  and broth. Cook until tomatoes are slightly broken down. Add the
  artichokes and cook for five minutes.
  
  3. Spoon over firmly-cooked rigatoni. Add more olive oil if too dry.
  Serve with grated Pecorino. Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rigatoni con Sugo di Carciofo (Rigatoni w/Artichoke Sauce
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Sized artichokes, peeled
           -down
      2    Ranks of leaves
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion
      1    Clove garlic
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1    Bay leaf simmered with w
    1/2 c  Chicken or vegetable broth
           Reduced by half
      4 oz Heavy cream
 
  Sugo
  
  Rigatoni con Sugo di Carciofo (Rigatoni with Creamed Artichoke Sauce)
  
  Salt Freshly ground fresh pepper Pecorino cheese
  
  1. Slice the artichokes in quarters the long way and cook in the
  butter and oil combined over medium low heat taking care not to burn
  the butter. Turn, so artichokes cook on all sides.
  
  2. Slice the onion thinly and quarter the garlic. Cook with the
  artichokes for 5 more minutes. Remove the garlic pieces. Add the
  tomato paste and reduced broth minus the bay leaf. Cook for another
  five minutes, incorporating all the elements thoroughly.
  
  3. Add the heavy cream and stir, cooking over very low heat. Add salt
  and generous amounts of freshly ground black pepper. Do not boil the
  sauce at this point.
  
  4. Spoon over the rigatoni, cooked firmly.
  
  Variation Finished in the Oven
  
  Pre-heat the oven to 375-F. Gently stir into sauce and pasta 1/4 cup
  Pecorino. Turn into a greased casserole dish and sprinkle liberally
  with more Pecorino. Bake for 20 minutes or until top is browned.
  
  Variation II
  
  Follow the base recipe and the first variation. However, before
  placing in oven, sprinkle lightly with freshly-grated fine bread
  crumbs. Then sprinkle on a bit of the Pecorino. Next, dot with butter
  and place in oven for 20 minutes. Browning time may be slightly
  shorter.
  
  A final note: The above dishes may be topped with slices of fresh
  tomato (seeded and juiced) before the topping goes on and casserole
  is baked.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Budino di Carciofi (Individual Artichoke Molds)
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Eggs
      2 oz Heavy cream
      3 oz Grated Pecorino
    1/2 ts Minced mint
    1/4    Onion, minced
           Fresh black pepper
      1 sl Of lean bacon minced
      6    Artichoke bottoms*
           Salt
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  * To prepare the artichoke bottoms, remove the outer leaves of the
  artichokes and steam them lightly, using about 1 inch of water in the
  pan. This should take about 10 to 12 minutes.(The insides of the
  artichokes should not be cooked entirely through.) Remove from pan
  and let cool. When you can handle them, peel off the remaining
  leaves, and if there are chokes remove them. Hollow out the inside of
  each enough so that there is a small cup in each bottom. Trim the
  stems so that they can sit in small ramekins without toppling over.
  
  1. Saute the bacon in the olive oil without crisping it. Remove and
  drain on paper. Discard all but 1/2 tablespoon of the fat and cook
  the onion in it until translucent. Do not brown. Remove and drain on
  paper.
  
  2. Pre-heat the oven to 350-F. Beat the eggs, cream, and Pecorino
  together, then stir in mint, onion, salt and pepper.
  
  3. Place the artichokes in ramekins that have been lightly oiled and
  have had equal portions of the broth poured in the bottom of them.
  Set the artichoke bottoms in the ramekins. Stir the egg mixture once
  more and with a small table ladle, fill each hollow almost to the top
  of the rims. Sprinkle lightly with Pecorino and bake until custard is
  just set. Cool on a rack, invert on plates and serve garnished with
  mint. Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bucatini all'Amatriciana
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Peperoncino (hot red pepper)
           -or flakes
      6    Fresh, ripe tomatoes or 1
           -16-ounce can
           Of whole plum tomatoes,
           -drained
      1 tb High-quality olive oil
      4    Thin strips unsmoked bacon,
           Or Italian guanciale (cured
           -hog jowl)
      1    Medium-small onion
      1 ds Of red wine
      1 lb Of bucatini
 
  (The Classic Roman Pasta Dish)
  
  About 3 ounces of grated pecorino cheese
  
  1. Saute the bacon in the olive oil until cooked but not browned.
  Remove, cool and chop into small pieces but do not mince.
  
  2. Remove all but 1 tablespoon of the fat in the pan. Chop the onion,
  then saute slowly with the peperoncini. You may cook the red pepper
  whole, then remove it at the end of cooking the sauce, or you may
  mince it for some added firepower. If using fresh tomatoes, you must
  peel them. Slice the tomatoes, then cook with onion, pepper and the
  bacon. Do not overcook. Serve over firmly cooked bucatini and top
  with the pecorino.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Melanzane al Rosmarino (Rosemary Eggplant)
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Herbs/spice, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Cleaned, peeled medium-sized
           -eggplant
           (about 2 pounds) cut into
           -1-1/2" cubes
      3 tb Rosemary leaves, fresh
           Or preserved in salt
      4 lg Cloves garlic, peeled
           Salt and freshly ground
           -black pepper
    3/4 c  Olive oil
     10    To 12 slices of crusty
           -Italian bread without
           -sesame seeds,
           About 1-inch thick, lightly
           -coated with olive oil
     20    Sprigs Italian parsley
 
  1. Place the eggplant on a serving platter, sprinkle about 2
  tablespoons coarse salt over, then place a second platter over the
  eggplant as a weight, but do not crush them. Let rest for at least 1
  hour.
  
  Meanwhile, finely chop rosemary and garlic together on a board.
  Transfer to a small bowl, add salt and pepper to taste and mix very
  well.
  
  3. Rinse the eggplant many times under cold running water, then pat
  dry with paper towels.
  
  4. Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat. When the oil is
  moderately hot, about 300-F, add the eggplant, preferably in one
  layer, and cook uncovered for 3 or 4 minutes. By that time the lower
  part of the eggplant should have a thin, golden crust. Turn the
  eggplant over, cover skillet and cook for 3 or 4 minutes more.
  
  5. Sprinkle with the rosemary mixture all over the eggplant and mix
  very well with a wooden spoon. Some cubes of the vegetable may fall
  apart; this is all right. Keep cooking until all the cubes are soft.
  With a skimmer, transfer the eggplant to a crockery or glass bowl.
  Discard all the remaining oil in the skillet.
  
  6. Add the parsley leaves to the eggplant and mix again. Immediately
  place some of the eggplant mixture over the slices of bread and
  serve. This dish may be served as an appetizer or a vegetable, but
  always warm.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maccheroni all'Alici E Funghi (Macaroni w/Anchovy & Mushr
 Categories: Fish, Vegetables, Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Of minced, fresh Italian
           -parsley
      2    Fresh tomatoes, peeled,
           -seeded and chopped
           Salt
    1/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons
           -high-quality extra virgin
           -olive oil
      1 lb Penne, rigatoni or other
           -short macaroni
      6 oz Domestic white mushrooms
           -sauteed in olive oil with
      4    Or 5 pieces of dried
           -porcini, reconstituted
      2    Cloves garlic, finely minced
     16    Black olives, pitted and
           -chopped
      2 oz Capers, rinsed and drained
           About 12 salted anchovies
           -split the long way
      3    To 4 tablespoons fresh,
           -small bread crumbs
 
  Maccheroni all'Alici e Funghi (Macaroni With Anchovy and Mushrooms)
  
  (Roman)
  
  1. Cook the parsley and the tomatoes in the quarter cup of olive oil
  for 15 minutes.
  
  2. Cook the pasta until barely done. Remove and dress with remaining
  olive oil, tossing thoroughly.
  
  3. Pre-heat the oven to 400-F. In an ovenproof dish that has been
  oiled, place a layer of macaroni. Add a layer of mushrooms, the
  garlic, the anchovy halves, olives, capers and a few dabs of the
  sauce. Alternate layers until done. Dust the top with the bread
  crumbs and sprinkle with a little more olive oil. Bake until the
  bread crumbs lightly brown. Serve hot, or at room temperature.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghetti con le Costarelle (Spaghetti with Pork, Roman S
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian, Pasta, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Extra virgin olive oil
      4 sl Prosciutto, minced with
      2    Cloves garlic
      1 tb Fennel seeds
           A large sprig of rosemary,
           -spikes (leaves) only
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      6    To 8 small medallions of
           -pork from rib chops, bones
           -removed
      1 lb Spaghetti
 
  Spaghetti con le Costarelle (Spaghetti With Pork, Roman Style)
  
  (Roman)
  
  Grated pecorino Salt and freshly ground pepper to taste
  
  1. Heat the oil over medium low heat in a heavy skillet. Add the
  prosciutto and garlic, fennel seeds, bay leaf and rosemary. Cook
  slowly for 20 minutes without browning.
  
  2. Add the pork cutlets and saute gently. Add the white wine and cook
  uncovered until the sauce is reduced and slightly thickened. Strain
  the sauce, serve over spaghetti with pork medallions arranged around
  edge of platter. Sprinkle with pecorino and serve. Source: Journal of
  Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Abbachio alla Cacciatora (Baby Lamb Hunter's Style)
 Categories: Fish, Vegetables, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Of milk-fed lamb, cut in
           -pieces
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Butter
           Flour for dusting the meat
      3    Cloves garlic, peeled and
           -finely minced
      3    Sprigs rosemary
      3    Sprigs sage
    1/2 c  White wine vinegar
      2    Or 3 whole anchovies in
           -salt, washed and dried
      2 tb Capers
 
  (Roman)
  
  1. Heat the oil and butter in a heavy saucepan with high sides. Saute
  the meat quickly over medium high heat, dust lightly with flour while
  still in pan, turn over and add the garlic, rosemary, and sage. Cook
  over medium low heat. Do not brown aromatics.
  
  2. Add the vinegar and 1/2 cup water. Cook slowly, turning meat
  often, for about 10 minutes.
  
  3. Chop the anchovies finely, place in a bowl and add 2 or 3
  tablespoons of the cooking juices. Mix well, add the drained capers
  and stir. Pour over the meat and cook until the sauce is reduced to a
  thick glaze-like consistency. Serve immediately. NOTE: This can be
  used as a basting liquid for lamb chops cooked outdoors on the grill,
  or for a slow-cooking leg of lamb.
  
  Source: Journal of Italian Food & Wine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honeyed Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-halved
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/4 c  Prepared mustard
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Butter
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  This is an American version of the oriental use of honey in cooking.
  The use of honey imparts an even glaze to game birds, sealing in the
  juices and adding a delicate flavor.
  
  Combine the first four ingredients and set aside. Rub the pheasant
  with the salt and pepper. In a foil lined pan in a preheated 350
  oven, melt the butter and remove from the fire. In it arrange the
  pheasant, skin side down and brush on some of the honey mixture. Bake
  thirty minutes, brushing occasionally with the honey mixture. Turing
  the pheasant bake thirty minutes more. Just before serving, dribble
  with the remaining honey mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      2 tb Parsley flakes
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Garlic salt
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
    1/2 ts Onion flakes
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  In a large skillet brown pheasant pieces on all sides. Remove from
  pan and set aside. Add seasonings to pan drippings and cook three
  minutes. Add pheasant and cover. Cook over medium heat one hour
  basting often with sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Roasted Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Fruit, Game, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 c  Wild rice
      1 c  Apricot juice
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Place pheasant in foil in a baking pan. Rub inside and out with salt
  and pepper. Cover with the uncooked rice. Pour juice over all and
  wrap tightly in the foil. Bake in a preheated 325 oven until pheasant
  is done and tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant San Francisco - United States
 Categories: Game, Fruit, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      2    Oranges-rind and juice only
      1 tb Onion-grated
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Dry mustard
      1 ts Pepper
      1 ds Of tabasco sauce
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Salad oil
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Arrange the pheasant pieces in a single layer in a shallow dish.
  Combine the orange rind, juice, onion, salt, mustard, pepper and
  tabasco. Pour the mixture over the pheasant, marinate from one to
  three hours. Drain remaining marinade for gravy.
  
  Combine flour and paprika and coat the pheasant thoroughly with this
  mixture. Save any leftover flour for gravy.
  
  Brown pheasant in a large skillet containing a 112 inch of oil. Turn
  often and brown on all sides. When pheasant is brown add one
  tablespoon water and cover tightly, brown on all sides.
  
  Uncover and continue cooking slowly until crisp. Remove pheasant to a
  warm platter and prepare gravy. The gravy is made by taking a
  tablespoon of butter, two tablespoons of flour and one cup of
  marinade liquid, adding water as needed. Melt butter in the skillet
  and stir in the flour, cook stirring constantly for about two
  minutes. Gradually add the liquid and cook until the sauce thickens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Rice Bake - United States
 Categories: Game, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      1 pk Dry onion soup mix
      1 cn French fried onion rings
      1 cn Cream of chicken
      1    Soup can of milk
      1 c  Uncooked rice
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Sprinkle soup mix into buttered two quart casserole. Sprinkle rice
  over soup mix and add pheasant pieces. Dilute soup with milk and pour
  over pheasant. Cover. Bake in preheated 300 oven for one hour and
  fifteen minutes. Uncover and sprinkle with onion rings then cook for
  fifteen minutes more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Herbs - United States
 Categories: Game, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-halved
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 tb Parsley-minced
    1/4 ts Tarragon
    1/2 ts Marjoram
      1    Clove garlic-crushed
      1 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Salad oil
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Combine the butter, parsley, tarragon and marjoram, rub in under the
  skin of the pheasant Combine the remaining ingredients and place the
  pheasant in the marinade, refrigerate over night.
  
  Broil the pheasant pieces, basting often with the marinade until
  tender. Cut into quarters for serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smothered Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
           Flour
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 ds Of garlic salt
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 cn Mushroom soup
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Dredge pheasant pieces with flour, seasoned with salt, pepper and
  garlic. Brown all pieces turning once. Place in casse- role, pour
  mushroom soup over top, cover and bake in a preheated 325 oven for
  thirty or forty minutes or until tender. Serve with gravy made from
  the pan drippings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Savahana - United States
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Game, Vegetables, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Pheasant-cooked
      4 tb Butter
      4 tb Flour
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Butter
    1/2 c  Light cream
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
      8 oz Noodles-cooked
      1 cn Mushrooms-sliced
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Slivered
           Almonds
      1 ts Butter
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Melt butter in a sauce pan; add the flour and stir until smooth.
  Combine chicken broth and cream and cook until thick and smooth, add
  the sherry.
  
  Place noodles in a buttered casserole and add pheasant, mush- rooms
  and cream sauce. Sprinkle with almonds, cheese and remaining butter
  and bake in a preheated 350 oven until bubbly and brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Celery - United States
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
    1/2    Stick of butter
      3 sm Onions-whole
      2    Stalks celery
    1/2 c  Of cream
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Of stock
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  This dish should be cooked in a very large sauce pan. Saute pheasant
  on all sides in the butter. Add the onions and close lid tightly,
  cook gently for forty minutes.
  
  Cut celery into two inch pieces and cook for ten minutes in salted
  boiling water. Drain. Combine the celery and the pheasant together
  with the cream, seasonings and stock. Cover and continue cooking
  gently for forty minutes more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant in Whiskey - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      1 tb Flour
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Butter
      2    Shallots-chopped
      1    Onion-chopped
      2 oz Whiskey
      1 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Brown sauce
           Flour for dredging
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  In a large skillet heat oil and butter, slowly add the pheasant
  pieces, shallots and onions, cover and simmer for fifty minutes or
  until tender. Remove pheasant and keep warm. To your pan add the
  whiskey, cream and brown sauce, bring to a boil and add pheasant.
  Keep warm until serving time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant en Casserole - United States
 Categories: Game, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      4 tb Butter
      3 tb Salmis sauce
      3 tb Pomegranate juice
      8    Sections seedless
           -oranges
      1 c  Black grapes, peeled
 
  SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Clean and pluck a young pheasant, truss the bird and place it in a
  large skillet with the butter. Cook very slowly for twenty minutes
  and transfer the bird to an earthenware casserole. Pour the butter
  from the skillet over the pheasant and add the grapes, orange pieces,
  salmis sauce and pomegranate juice. Simmer for ten minutes and serve
  in the casserole with a dish of bread crumbs, soaked in butter, on
  the side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant and Mushrooms - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
    1/2 c  Pancake mix
      2 c  Mushrooms-sliced
    1/2    Lemon juice only
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 sm Onion-chopped
      2    Chicken bouillon
           Cubes
    1/2 c  Butter
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Dredge the pheasant pieces in the pancake mix and saute in butter
  until brown on all sides. Remove pheasant from skillet, saute
  mushrooms and onions in butter until brown, do not burn. Replace
  pheasant and add bouillon, lemon juice and seasoning. Cover and cook
  over low heat about one hour or until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Baked in Wine - United States
 Categories: Game, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Flour for dredging
      6 tb Olive oil
           Onion & garlic salt
      6 tb Tomato paste
      6 tb Tomato sauce
    3/4 c  White port
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Cut and clean pheasant pieces; season with salt and pepper, and
  dredge in flour. Heat oil in skillet and slightly brown pheasant on
  all sides. Sprinkle with onion and garlic salt on both sides. Remove
  pieces to a large casserole or rectangular pan. This can be done the
  day before if desired. Combine the tomato paste, sauce and white
  port. Pour over pheasant and bake in a preheated 250 oven for two
  hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Pheasant Casserole - United States
 Categories: Vegetables, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      1 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Poultry seasoning
      1 ts Paprika
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Bacon fat
      1 c  Celery-chopped
      1    Onion-chopped
    1/2 c  Carrots-chopped
      1 sm Can mushrooms, diced
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Coat pheasant pieces in flour mixture with seasonings. Brown quickly
  in a half inch of oil. Remove meat from pan. Make gravy using
  drippings in a pan plus bacon fat, seasoned flour and cream. Thin
  with milk if necessary. Stir in vegetables and simmer. Place meat in
  a deep casserole, breast first, meatside down. Liquid should fill
  casserole two- thirds full after gravy has been added. Add milk if
  needed. Cover and bake at 350 oven for about two hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scalloped Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-cooked
      1    Loaf of stale bread
      1 c  Celery-chopped
      1 ts Sage
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1    Onion-chopped
      3 tb Flour
      4    Eggs-beaten
      1 qt Of milk
           Buttered bread crumbs
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Bone pheasants. Make dressing using bread, celery, sage, salt, pepper
  and onion. Skim off one cup of the fat used in cooking the pheasant.
  Use the remaining liquid to moisten dressing. Place dressing on the
  bottom of a large casserole dish and place pheasant on top. Mix the
  reserved broth with flour, eggs and milk. Add broth and flour and
  cook until the consistency of custard. Pour over pheasant and bake at
  350 for forty minutes or until set.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gourmet Delight Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Alcohol, Game, Herbs/spice, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Pheasants-quartered
      1 c  Brandy
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1    Onion-chopped
      1    Clove garlic-crushed
           Wild rice-cooked
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 lg Bottle horseradish
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Brown pheasant pieces well in butter and place in a large casserole or
  baking dish. Pour brandy over pheasant, light and flame. Add chicken
  stock, onions and garlic. Season well with salt and pepper. Bake in a
  preheated 350 oven for thirty minutes and baste often. Remove from
  oven and pour in cream and horseradish, then bake thirty minutes
  longer. Before serving add mushrooms, which have been sauteed in
  butter and serve over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant and Kraut - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables, Sausage
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Pheasants-disjointed
    1/2    Stick of butter
      1 lb Italian sausage
      4 lb Sauerkraut
      3 ts Pepper
      2 ts Celery seeds
    1/2 lb Salt pork
      3 ts Pepper
      1 qt Dry white wine
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Saute pheasant pieces in butter and brown well. Drain kraut and put
  in a large sauce pan. Add pepper, celery seeds and salt pork. Pour in
  wine and simmer for one hour. Add pheasant pieces and make sure they
  are well buried, simmer for one more hour. Combine the sausage and
  simmer until pheasant is quite tender, about half an hour more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven Fried Parmesan Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 c  Stuffing-seasoned
    1/2 c  Butter-melted
    2/3 c  Parmesan
           Cheese
    1/4 c  Parsley
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Combine fresh crushed stuffing, cheese and parsley. Dip pheasant
  pieces in butter and roll in stuffing mixture. Arrange pieces, skin
  side up, in a shallow pan. Sprinkle with remaining crumbs and butter.
  Bake in a 375 oven for one hour or until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Batter Fried Hunter Style Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Alcohol, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Flour
           Onion & garlic salt
  1 1/2 c  Of beer
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  In a large sauce pan place pheasant pieces and cover with water and
  salt, cook until almost tender. Cool and dip in batter made by
  whipping together until smooth: flour, salt and beer. Sprinkle with
  onion and garlic salt. Fry over moderate heat for about thirty
  minutes or until tender and done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      6 tb Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6 tb Oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 15 1/2 oz Consomme
      1    Clove garlic-minced
  1 1/2 c  Water
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Dredge pheasant pieces in well seasoned flour. Brown well in hot oil
  in a large skillet. Add lemon juice, consomme, garlic and water.
  Cover and simmer about one hour or until tender. Thicken liquid for
  gravy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
           Flour to dredge
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1    Onion-chopped
      1 tb Butter-melted
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Tomato catsup
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      2 c  Tomatoes-cooked
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Cut pheasants and dredge in seasoned flour. Brown in hot oil. Saute
  onions in melted butter until tender. Combine brown sugar and
  cornstarch; mix with onions. Gradually add remaining ingredients and
  season well. Cook slowly twenty minutes or until thick. Pour sauce
  over pheasant. Cover. Bake in a preheated 300 oven for one and a half
  hours, basting often to prevent drying.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Roast Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
           Salt & butter
      2 sl Bacon
      1 c  Sweet
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Flour
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Wash and dry pheasant and rub inside and out with salt. Put the liver
  in a piece of butter and place inside the pheasant, fasten the bacon
  across the breast. Bake in a preheated 350 oven, basting often with
  butter. After pheasant has cooked for thirty minutes, baste with
  cream and water, a spoonful at a time. Pheasant should cook about one
  and a half hours. Remove bacon before serving. Stir flour into
  drippings, brown and add water as needed. Cook for five minutes and
  serve gravy on or with pheasant.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Alcohol, Game, Fruit, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Hen pheasant-whole
      1 lb Grapes-seedless
      1 tb Vinegar
      5 sm Shallots-sliced
      1    Strip of fat pork
  2 1/2 c  Cream
  1 1/2 c  Chicken
           Bouillon
      1 tb Horseradish
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Brandy
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Saute pheasant with shallots and butter. Flame it with brandy. Add
  salt and pepper along with the bouillon to the pheasant. Cook in a
  preheated 300 oven for half an hour, basting with the sauce
  regularly. Combine cream, horseradish and vinegar, cook for fifteen
  or twenty minutes longer. Just before it is finished, taste for
  seasoning and add the peeled grapes to the sauce five minutes before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Del Monico - United States
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
    1/2 c  Butter-melted
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 c  Biscuit mix
      3 sl Processed cheese
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Dry pheasant and brush with seasoned melted butter. Dredge pheasant
  pieces with the biscuit mix. Remove pheasant pieces and place in a
  roasting pan. Pour butter over bird, cover and bake in a 350 oven for
  one and a half hours. Remove from oven and place cheese on pheasant
  pieces, return to oven and cook until cheese has melted and is
  slightly brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Pheasant with Chestnuts - United States
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Fruit, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant-whole
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Olive oil
     12 sm Onions
    1/4 ts Thyme
      2 c  Chestnuts-shelled
      2 ts Flour
      1 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      1 tb Currant jelly
      1    Bay leaf
 
  SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Clean, wash and dry pheasant. Season with salt and pepper. Heat
  butter and olive oil in a casserole and brown pheasant on all sides.
  Add onions and chestnuts and cook over low heat until lightly brown.
  Sprinkle with flour and add broth, stirring gently to the boiling
  point. Combine orange juice, currant jelly, bay leaf and thyme. Cover
  tightly and bake in a preheated 350 oven for one and a half hours,
  basting frequently. Baste with the seasoning and discard bay leaf.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Pecan Stuffing - United States
 Categories: Game, Nuts/grains, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-whole
    1/2 c  Pecans-halved
      1 c  Bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Butter-melted
      2 tb Flour
           Salt & pepper to taste
  1 1/2 c  Hot stock
      3 tb Sherry
           Warm cream
      2    Egg yolks
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Combine pecans, bread crumbs, half of butter; stuff pheasants,
  sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour. Place in a casserole and pour
  rest of butter over pheasants. Brown at 450 for ten minutes. Add
  stock, sherry and bake at 350 for one hour. Uncover and cook for
  another thirty minutes or until tender. Thicken casserole with a
  little cream and egg yolks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Asparagus - United States
 Categories: Vegetables, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Pheasant-cooked/chopped
    3/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Flour
      4 c  MiLk
      1 cn Green asparagus
      3 c  Ritz cracker crumbs
      1 c  Cheese-grated
      1 cn Pimentos
      4    Hard boiled eggs
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Make a cream sauce by melting half a cup of the butter in a sauce pan;
  blend flour, milk and seasonings, stir until thick, slowly add eggs,
  cheese and pimento. Place crumbs on the bottom of a casserole and
  lightly butter. Add a layer of cream sauce pheasant and asparagus,
  alternate layers ending with the cream sauce, top with the crumbs.
  Pour on rest of the butter and bake in a 350 oven for thirty minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Virginia Pheasant with Sauce - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Olives-chopped
      1    Clove garlic-crushed
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Butter
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Coat pheasant with seasoned flour using salt, pepper and paprika.
  Brown on all sides in butter in a large skillet. Add garlic, olives,
  butter and worcestershire sauce, cover tightly. Simmer for forty five
  minutes, turn pheasant and add wine. Cover and simmer forty five
  minutes longer or until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Jambalya - United States
 Categories: Game, Meats, Chilies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Pheasant-cooked/diced
      2 tb Salad oil
      1 c  Onions-chopped
      1 c  Green peppers-chopped
      2    Cloves garlic-minced
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 c  Ham-cooked
     12    Tiny pork sausages
      1    No. 2 can tomatoes
      1 c  Raw white rice
      1 tb Parsley-chopped
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From the deep south of Louisiana comes a pheasant version of the
  famous Jambalaya, prepared in the creole fashion.
  
  In a large skillet heat oil and add vegetables, cook slowly stirring
  often until tender. Add all of the meats and cook for five minutes.
  Combine the balance of the ingredients. Turn into a large casserole
  dish. Cover and cook for one hour in a preheated 350 oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CREOLE HOT SAUSAGE
 Categories: Meats, Cajun/creol, Sausage, Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Lean fresh pork
      2 lb Pork fat
      2 ts Finely minced garlic
      1 tb Cayenne pepper
      1 tb Freshly ground black pepper
      2 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Ground bay leaf
      4 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Sugar
      3    Yards sausage casing (opt.)
 
  Grind the pork and fatback to a medium to coarse grind, and mix well
  with the other ingredients.  Stuff into sausage casings, and tie them
  off so that each sausage is about six inches long.  You can omit this
  step and make sausage patties if you like.
  
  Fresh sausage should be used quickly, and will keep in the
  refrigerator for three days.  You can also freeze it for up to three
  months.
  
  From The Gumbo Pages' Home Page.
  Submitted By ROGER MARTIN   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raviolo Aperto
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------KEYWORDS: SEAFOOD, SHRIMP, S---------------------

MMMMM----------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS, THU 06---------------------

MMMMM----------------SOURCE: JOURNAL OF ITALIAN F---------------------

MMMMM-------------------RESTAURANT: L'ALBERETA------------------------
           Via Vittorio Emanuele, 11
  25030 ea Erbusco (BS) (Italy)

MMMMM------------------CHEF: GUALTIERO MARCHESI-----------------------
           Layered squares of pasta,
           -remaining unsealed at the
           -edges are called
           Raviolo aperto, open
           -ravioli, or fazzoletto,
           -handkerchief pasta.
           -Gualtiero
           Marchesi made this type of
           -pasta and its delicate
           -presentation famous. One
           Of his signature dishes, it
           -has inspired many chef,
           -worldwide.

MMMMM------------------------EGG SFOGLIA-----------------------------
      5 ea Ounces bleached, all
           -purpose flour
      2 lg Eggs
      2 ts Extra-virgin olive oil
      6 lg Italian parsley leaves

MMMMM----------------------SPINACH SFOGLIA---------------------------
  3 1/2 ea Ounces bleached,
           -all-purpose flour
      3 ea Ounces fresh spinach leaves
           -or 1/2 ounce
           Thawed, drained frozen, and
           -minced
      1 lg Egg
  1 1/2 ts Extra-virgin olive oil

MMMMM--------------------------RIPIENE-------------------------------
      4 ea Ounces cold unsalted
           -butter, divided
     18 ea Ounces sea scallops (with
           -roe, if possible)
           Foot muscle removed
  1 1/4 c  Fresh fish stock, divided
    1/4 c  Dry Italian white wine,
           -divided
      1 ts Grated fresh ginger mixed
           -with
      2 ts Cool water
           Salt and freshly ground
           -white pepper to taste
 
  1. Egg Sfoglia - On clean surface, place flour in a mound and make a
  well in center. Add eggs, oil and salt in center. Beginning with the
  flour in the center of the well, incorporate with the egg mixture
  using your fingers or a fork so the wall of flour prevents the egg
  from spilling onto the work surface. Gradually knead in all the flour
  necessary to make a smooth firm dough. Spinach Sfoglia: Follow above
  procedure putting the minced spinach in the center along with the
  other ingredients.
  
  2. On a clean work surface or using a pasta machine, roll-out egg
  dough to an 8 x 24 rectangle with a 1/16th-inch thickness. Cut dough
  into twelve 4-inch squares. Select 6 parsley leaves, rinse, pat dry
  and place on a clean work surface. Roll the pin over each leaf,
  pressing OUt any excess juice. Pat parsley dry again. Place one leaf
  in the center of each of the 6 squares. Place the other 6 squares on
  tOp. Roll out each square to less than 1/16th inch and trim edges to
  make a neat square. Roll out spinach dough to an 8 x 12 rectangle and
  less than 1/16th-inch thickness. Cut into six 4-inch squares. Place
  pasta squares on a drying or cooling rack up to 1 hour or until
  surface is a little dry to the touch.
  
  3. Ripieno (Stuffing): In a medium casserole or saute pan over medium
  heat, melt 2 tablespoons butter and saute the scallops until the
  surface is opaque white, about 1 minute. Add 1/2 cup fish stock,
  simmer for 1 minute, add 1/8th cup wine and simmer for 1 minute. Pour
  scallops into a colander to drain off the cooking liquid. In the same
  casserole or pan, melt 1/2 tablespoon butter over medium heat and add
  the remaining 3/4 cup fish stock. Reduce by half, about 2 to 3
  minutes. Transfer the scallops back into the pan and add 1/2 teaspoon
  ginger juice. Simmer for 1 minute. Remove from heat. Cool for 1
  minute, then whisk in the remaining 1-1/2 tablespoons cold butter to
  thicken sauce. Season to taste.
  
  4. Meanwhile, in a deep pot of boiling water, add salt, then the pasta
  squares and boil until al dente, about 3 to 4 minutes (watch them
  carefully). Immediately drain.
  
  5. Assemble: On warmed serving plates, place one spinach pasta square
  in the center of each plate. Using a slotted spoon, arrange the
  scallops on top of each spinach square and spoon 1 tablespoon of the
  sauce over them. Then place one egg-with-parsley pasta square at a
  90-degree angle on top of the scallops and spoon 1 tablespoon of the
  sauce over. Serve immediately. Consult photograph on preceding page
  for final presentation. Notes:A mixture of scallops, shrimp and white
  fish filet such as red snapper or bass may be substituted for the sea
  scallops. Store-bought, sheet pasta may be substituted for the
  homemade.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut Pheasant - United States
 Categories: Game, Cheese/eggs, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Cut a large pheasant into
           -serving pieces and cover
           -with pineapple juice
           And let stand for three
           -hours. Combine two-thirds
           -cups of cracker meal and
           -grated Cheese-parmesan,
           -1/3 cups of very finely
           -finely chopped walnuts, 3
           -tb Parsley and salt. Drain
           -the pheasant pieces
           -and dip them in beaten
           -egg and coat with the
           -prepared mixture. In a
           -skillet, saute the
           -Pheasant in oil and brown.
           -Arrange the pheasant in a
           -single layer in a shallow
           -pan and bake at 350 degrees
           -for thirty five minutes.
           -Put pineapple on top,
           -brush with pan drippings
           -and sprinkle with crumb
           -mixture. Bake pheasant
           -for fifteen minutes longer
           -and serve.
 
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marilyn's Cornbread Stuffing
 Categories: Breads, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Cornbread, crumbled
      1 c  Celery, diced
    1/4 c  Green pepper, diced
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley, cut up
      1 c  Onions, diced
      4 ea Eggs
      2 sl White bread
           Salt, pepper, poultry
           -seasoning to taste
 
  Broth made from boiled giblets or plain hot water Put vegetables in
  skillet with three tablespoons oil. Simmer and stir a few minutes.
  Put cornbread, vegetables, and spices in a big bowl. Add enough broth
  or water to make stuffing moist, mix well Will stuff a 15 to 20 pound
  turkey.
  
  Submitted By RON ALLARD   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesey Chard
 Categories: Vegetables, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Rice (brown basmati is nice)
    1/2 md Onion, cut in chunks
      2 tb Olive oil
        pn Black pepper, fresh ground
      2 qt Chard, fresh, cut in 2" pcs.
      6 oz Montery jack
           -or mild white cheddar

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
      1 cn Baby corn
      2 c  Squash vine tips, peeled
           -cut in 1" pieces
           Soy sauce or tamari
 
  Cook the rice with approp. amount of water for the rice; I use a rice
  cooker and equal amounts of rice and water; twice the water for
  standard covered pot and brown rice.
  
  Wash and drain the chard, remove and discard stems, and cut leaves in
  2 inch squares.
  
  While the rice is cooking (about 8 minutes before it is done), saute
  the onion, and squash vine if used, in the olive oil with a grind or
  two of black pepper. Add the drained baby corn, if used, and cover to
  heat through.
  
  Add the chard just when the rice is done cooking. Turn off the heat.
  Add the hot rice and grate the cheese on top. Mix quickly so the
  cheese melts, but not so much so that everything sticks together.
  
  Serve with soy sauce, if desired.
  
  Re-done by Gene Kremer gene.kremer@swamp.mn.org (1:2245/101)
  Submitted By GENE KREMER   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Patouli" - tabouli with potatoes instead of couscous
 Categories: Salads, Potatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     20 sm New red potatoes
      2 c  Parsley, fresh, chopped fine
      2 tb Mint leaves, fresh, chopped
    3/4 c  Diced spring onion
           - including some of the tops
      1    Tomato, ripe, diced
    1/2    Lemon, juiced
      4 oz Feta cheese, crumbled
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Wash the potatoes and put on to steam until tender.
  
  Finely chop and combine the parsley, mint, onions, and tomato.
  Squeeze in the lemon juice. Mix thouroughly.
  
  Crumble the feta and turn into the salad makings.
  
  Drain the potatoes and place five in in a shallow bowl. Cover with
  1/4 of the salad mixture. Potatoes should be mashed or sliced by the
  person eating. No salt or butter is necessary, really.
  
  This dish was born of necessity when I intended to make tabouli, but
  found I had no bulgur (which I use instead of couscous), but did have
  fresh, new potatoes. The dish made a meal! The kind one feels good
  after.
  
  Created by Gene Kremer gene.kremer@swamp.mn.org (1:2245/101)
  Submitted By GENE KREMER   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tortellini and Chicken Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizers, Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
 18 3/4 c  Chicken broth
      9 oz Spinach Tortellini & cheese
      1 lb Spinach
      1 lb Chicken Breast
    1/2 lb Mushrooms
      1 md Red Pepper
 
  Here's a soup with everything - meat, rice, vegetables, and cheese
  filled spinach pasta. Let diners add Parmesan cheese to taste.
  
  Preparation Time 10 minutes Cooking TIme 15 minutes
  
  Per Serving
  
  181 calories 6g total fat 2g saturated fat 22mg cholesterol 18g
  carbohydrates 17g protein 1628mg sodium
  
  In an 8-10 quart pan bring the broth to the boil, covered over a high
  heat. Add the tortellini, reduce heat and boil gently, uncovered,
  until pasta is al dente (about 6 minutes)
  
  Add spinach, chicken, mushrooms, red pepper, rice and tarragon to
  broth; return to boil over a high heat. Reduce heat, cover and simmer
  until chicken is no longer pink in centre; cut to test (about 2
  minutes).
  
  Ladle soup into large bowls. Offer cheese to sprinkle over individual
  portions, if desired.
  Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried FIsh Chowder
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Soup/stew, Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Margarine
      1 lg Onion
      1 cl Garlic
  1 1/2 tb Curry powder
      6 c  Chicken-Vegetable Stock
      1 lb Potatoes
    1/2 lb Carrots
      3 sl Lemon peel
      2 sm Dried red chillis
      1 lb Rock
    1/4 c  Spring Onions
      1 c  Natural Yoghur
      1    Lemon
 
  Add a little zest to traditional fish chowder: season it with curry
  poweder, fresh ginger and hot chiles. Spring Onions and tangy yoghurt
  top this one bowl entree.
  
  Per Serving:
  
  246 calories 6g total fat 1g saturated fat 29mg cholesterol 28g
  carbohydrates 21g protein 1120mg sodium
  
  Preparation Time: 15 minutes Cooking Time: 35 minutes
  
  Preparation:
  
  chop the onion, mince the fresh ginger, mince or press the garlic
  clove, ctu the potatoes (unpeeled) into 1/2" cubes. Cut the carrots
  into 1/2" cubes. Cut the lemon rind into strips 1/2 * 4". Cut the
  rock into 1/2" cubes. Thinly slice the spring onions. Cut the lemon
  into wedges.
  
  Melt the margarine in a 5 to 6 quart pan over medium high heat. Add
  the onion, garlic and ginger, cook, stirring occasionally, until
  onion is soft (about 7 minutes). Add curry powder; stir for 2
  minutes. Add broth, potatoes, carrots, lemon peel and chiles; bring
  to a boil over a high heat. Reduce heat, cover and simmer until
  potatoes are tender when pierced (about 20 minutes)
  
  Add fish. Cover and simmer until fish is opaque (about 2 minutes). If
  desired, remove and discard chillis. Ladle soup into a tureen and
  sprinkle with spring onions; top with yogurt. Serve with lemon wedges.
  Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Cream of Pumpkin Soup
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Soup/stew, Appetizers, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 g  Leeks
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Currants
    1/2 lb Carrots
      3 c  Vegetable Stock
      2 c  Skimmed Milk
      1 lb Pumpkin
    1/4 ts Ground Nutmeg
           Toasted Pumpkin Seeds
 
  Celebrate autumn's arrival with a smooth lightly spiced soup
  flavoured with leeks - the mild mannered member of the onion family.
  Sauteed leeks, sliced carrots, colourful pumpkin and a handful of
  sweet curranrs combine in vegetable stock; the finished soup is
  topped with toasted pumpkin seeds.
  
  Preparation TIme 15 minutes Cooking Time 40 minutes
  
  Per Serving
  
  165 calories 4g total fat 5g saturated fat 2mg cholesterol 29g
  carbohydrates 6g protein 570mg sodium
  
  Trim ends and all but three inches of green tops from the leeks;
  remove tough outer leaves. Split leeks lengthwise; rinse well, then
  thinly slice crosswise. Set aside.
  
  Heat oil in a 3 to 4 quart pan over medium heat; add currents and stir
  until puffed (about 2 minutes). Lift from pan with a slotted spoon;
  set aside. Add leeks and carrots to pan; stir often until leeks are
  golden (about 10 minutes). Add 1 cup of the broth; bring to a boil,
  thend reduce heat, cover and simmer until carrots are very tender to
  bite (about 10 minutes).
  
  Ina  food processor or blender whirl leek mixture until smooth.
  Return to pan and add remaining 2 cups of broth, milk, pumpkin and
  nutmeg. Cook over medium heat, stirring often, until soup is hot
  (about 15 minutes). Stir in currants. offer pumpkin seeds to add to
  taste. Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cantaloupe-Tangerine Soup
 Categories: Vegetarian, Soup/stew, Appetizers, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Cantaloupe Melon
      1 cn Tangerine Juice
           Fresh Mint Sprigs
 
  Here's a summertime soup you can serve at breakfast lunch or dinner!
  Tangy tangerine juice blended with sweet cantaloupe is a refreshing
  beginning or cool soothing finish to your day.
  
  Preparation time: About 10 minutes
  
  Per Serving:
  
  146 calories 0.7g total fat 0g saturated fat 0mg cholesterol 35g
  carbohydrates 2g protein 17mg sodium
  
  Cut cantaloupe in half; scoop out and discard seeds. Scoop flesh from
  shell and place in a food processor or blender; add tangerine (or
  orange) juice and whirl until smoothly pureed. If desired, cover and
  refridgerate for up to 24 hours; whirl again to blend before serving.
  
  Pour soup into bowls; garnish with mint sprigs.
  Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Chicken Breasts with Chutney
 Categories: Poultry, Low cal/fat, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Olive Oil
      2 cl Garlic
      1 lg Onion
  2 1/4 c  Spinach
      4    Chicken Breasts
      1 tb Balsamic Vinegar
    1/2 c  Chicekn Stock
    1/4 c  Chutney
 
  Flavoured lightly with sauteed onions and garlic, this spinach
  filling is good enough to eat alone - but it's even better rolled
  inside chicken breats and simmered in a simple sauce of broth,
  balsamic vinegar and chutney
  
  Preparation Time 35 minutes Cooking Time 15 minutes
  
  per Serving
  
  174 calories 3g total fat 6g saturated fat 66mg cholesterol 8g
  carbohydrates 27g protein 107mg sodium
  
  Preparation:
  
  mince or press the garlic clove chop the onion chop the spinach leaves
  skin, bone and split the chicken breasts
  
  Heat oil in a 12-14 inch frying pan over medium-high heat. Add garlic
  and onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is soft (about
  7 minutes). Add 2 cups of the spinach; let cool.
  
  Rinse chicken; pat dry. Place each breast half nbetween 2 sheets of
  plastic wrap. Pound with a flat-surfaced mallet to a thickness of
  about 1/4 inch.
  
  In centre of each breast half, mound an equal portion of the spinach
  mixture. Roll meat around filling to enclose; fasten with wooden
  picks. Place chicken rolls in pan used for spinach.
  
  In a small bowl, mix vinegar, stock and chutney. Pour over chicken.
  Bring to a simmer until meat is no longer pink and filling is hot in
  centre; cut to test (about 8 minutes). Remove chicken from pan,
  remove wooden picks and keep chicken warm.
  
  Increase heat to high and bring chutney mixture to a boil. Cook,
  stirring occasionally, until reduced to 1/2 cup (about 5 minutes);
  then pour over chicken. Garnish with remaining 1/4 cup spinach.
  Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlicky Broiled Chicken
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Poultry, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lemon Juice
      2 tb Olive Oil
    1/2 c  Dry White Wine
      6 cl Garlic
      2    Bay Leaves
      2    Chicken Breasts
      2 lg Red Peppers
    3/4 lb Mushrooms
 
  Broiled Chicken Breasts are sometimes boringly bland, but not these!
  The garlicky marinade will really wake up your tastebuds.
  
  Preparation Time: 10 minutes Cooking Time: 20 minutes Marinating
  Time: 2 hours - 1 day
  
  Per Serving
  
  213 calories 7g total fat 1g saturated fat 66mg cholesterol 9g
  carbohydrates 29g protein 83mg sodium
  
  Preparation:
  
  Mince or Press the Garlic Cloves Skin, Bone and Split the chicken
  breasts (1lb meat total) Seed the peppers and cut into 1.5" squares
  Crumlbe the bay leaves Half the mushrooms
  
  In a shallow bowl stir together lemon juice, oil, wine, garlic and bay
  leaves. Rinse and drain chicken; add to marinade and turn to coat.
  Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours or up to one day, turning
  chicken occasionally.
  
  Lift chicken from marinade; reserve marinade. Place chicken on a rack
  in a broiler pan. Broil 4 inches below heat for 15 minutes, basting
  with marinade and turning as needed to cook evenly.
  
  Arrange peppers and mushrooms alongside chicken, baste lightly and
  continue to broil until the chicken is no longer pink in the middle.
  Cut to test (about 5 more minutes).
  Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-01-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lasagna with artichoke hearts & chick peas
 Categories: Jewish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 
  1 or 2 Large Onions 4 fresh garlic cloves olive oil 16 oz large curd
  cottage cheese 15 oz riccata cheese lasagna noodles 32 oz spaghetti
  sauce, Garlic/herb 16 oz zucchini can, (in tomato sauce) 15 oz chick
  peas (can) 15 oz artichoke hearts (can) fresh pepper
  
  In skillet add oil, diced onion and fresh garlic. Cook until brown.
  Add Zucchini can, cook until dry. Add chick peas (can) w/1/3 liquid,
  cook until dry. Add fresh pepper.
  
  Start pasta, do not overcook!
  
  Blend large curd cottage cheese and riccata cheese. Spray Lasagna pan
  W/Pam. Add thin layer of spaghetti sauce. Add layer of Lasagna
  noodles.
  
  Nutritional Information:
  
  510 calories, medium carbohydrate, high protein, medium fat
  
  Heat the buuter and oil in a large frying pan and stir fry the
  cucumber and spring onions for 30 seconds. Add the trout and cook for
  a further two Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato and Okra Stew
 Categories: Vegetarian, Caribbean
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 ts Sunflower oil
      1 md Onion
      1    Red Chilli
  2 1/2    Ginger root
      1 ts Cinnamon
      3 c  Sweet potatoes
  2 1/2 c  Vegetable stock
  3 1/2 oz Curly kale
 14 1/8 oz Chopped tomatoes
 6 3/16 oz Okra
      2 tb Coriander
      1 oz Salted peanuts
           Lime Juice
 
  1. Heat the oil in a large saucepan and cook the onion for 5 minutes
     until softened. Add the chilli, ginger and cinnamon and continue to
     cook, stirring frequently, for 3 minutes.
  
  2. Stir in the sweet potato and stock and season to taste. Leave to
     simmer for 5 minutes until the potatoes beging to soften.
  
  3. Add the kale, tomatoes, okra and lime juice, cover and simmer for
     10-15 minutes until the vegetables are tender. Remove lid for the
     last 5 minutes. Stir in the coriander and sprinkle the peanuts
     over the stew. Serve hot with rice or crusty bread.
  
  Per Person:
  
  279 calories 8g Fibre (h) 46g Carbohydrate (m) 9g Fat (m) 1g
  Saturated fat (l) 8g Protein (m) 0.9mg Salt (m) No added sugar
  Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Garlic, Broad Bean and Saffron Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    2/3 c  Long grain brown rice
      2 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      1    Saffron strand
     20 lg Garlic cloves
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
  2 1/4 lb Broad beans
  1 1/3 qt Chicken stock
 
  Typed for you by Kaz Dunkley.
  
  Preparation: Shell the broad beans
  
  Put the rice in a saucepan with the water, salt and saffron. Bring to
  the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 30 minutes or until all
  the water has been absorbed and the rice is tender.
  
  Meanwhile, preheat the oven to Gas Mark 5/190C/375F. Put the garlic
  cloves in a small roasting tin with the oil and roast in the oven for
  10-15 minutes or until they are soft and golden but not brown. Turn
  them once to make sure they do not brown underneath.
  
  Add the beans to the rice, pour on the stock and bring to the boil.
  Add the garlic cloves and their oil, reduce the heat and simmer for
  15 minutes. Remove from heat, cool a little then puree in a food
  processor or blender. Taste and season to taste, then serve
  immediately. Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CUCUMBER SOUP WITH LEMONGRASS AND SPINACH
 Categories: Soup/stew, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Ribs celery, strings removed
           - with a vegetable peeler,
           - chopped
      1 sm Onion, minced
      2    Stalks fresh lemongrass,
           - tender inside only, minced
      2 md Cucumbers, peeled, seeded,
           - chopped
      2 c  Chicken stock or broth
  1 1/2 c  Spinach leaves
    1/4 c  Fresh cilantro leaves
      3 tb Whipping cream, if desired
           Salt, pepper to taste
 
  Preparation time: 15 minutes.  Cooking time: 25 minutes. Yield: 5
  cups. 1. Melt butter in a large saucepan. Add celery, onion and
  lemongrass. Cook gently until onion is tender, 15 minutes.  Add
  cucumbers and stock. Heat to a boil; reduce heat, cover and simmer
  until cucumber is tender, 10 minutes. 2. Strain solids from liquid,
  reserving both. Puree solids with spinach and cilantro in a blender
  or food processor. Add reserved liquid, cream, salt and pepper; mix
  until smooth. Serve warm or chilled. Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On
   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Mac-Casserole
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Casseroles, Meats
      Yield: 1 casserole
 
      1 c  Leonardo elbow macaroni
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt (optional)
      1 lb Hamburger
      2 tb Butter
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 c  Shredded cheese
    1/2 c  Buttered bread crumbs
 
  Cook Leonardo elbows according to directions.  Drain. Place in
  buttered casserole.  Melt butter in double boiler.  Add flour, salt
  and pepper and blend.  Add milk slowly until sauce thickens.  Add
  shredded cheese. Fry hamburger in fry pan, drain off excess fat, and
  combine with elbows. Mix thoroughly, add sauce and top with bread
  crumbs. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F) for 30 minutes.
  
  Recipe from: Leonardo Elbow Macaroni box.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elbow Parmesani
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Vegetables, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 10 -12 serves
 
     16 oz Leonardo elbows
    1/2 c  Zucchini
    1/2 c  Yellow squash
      1 ea Tomato, sliced
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 c  Half and half
      5 tb Butter or margarine
      1 pn Ground nutmeg
      1 lg Clove of garlic, crushed
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Parsley
 
  Cook Leonardo elbows according to directions.  Steam vegetables. Bring
  half-and-half to a boil in a 12-16 inch skillet.  Reduce heat and
  simmer for 5 minutes stirring constantly.  Remove from heat.  Add
  warm elbows and vegetables to half-and-half in the skillet.  Toss
  well, then add butter or margarine, seasoning, and Parmesan cheese.
  Toss again and serve hot. Makes 10-12 servings.
  
  Recipe from:  Leonardo Elbow Macaroni box.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guinness Duck ala Leipzig
 Categories: Poultry, Scot/irish
      Yield: 2 servings  
 
 
  Sure. Take 2 duck **** (it's shorter than spelling breasts) filets and
  pound a tad. Rub with a fine filligre of olive oil, garlic, sage and
  thyme. Set aside to marinate. In a bowl, combine 1/2 cup honey, some
  cinnamon ("some" according to taste 1/2 to 1 tsp.), allspice,
  coriander, a wee smite of sea salt, black pepper, paprika, nutmeg and
  1/2 to 1 pint of Guinness. Slosh together, heating gently, and let
  marry in fridge for an hour or so. Take either pork sausage
  (breakfast variety) or other fine sausage (boudin is preferred down
  here in humidity valley; back home, bratwurst would have been just
  the ticket) roll each duck [breast] around a sausage and pin,
  viciously, with toothopicks (the wood variety, you knucklehead, not
  plastic...) Brown each duck [breast] in a shallow pan with some
  minced shallots, olive oil, shitaake mushrooms, and garlic. Just
  brown a bit, to loosen up some of that ever present duck fat. Remove
  duck [breasts] to a shallow baking pan and toss, vicariously, into a
  400 degree (Farenheit, not Kelvin) oven for 15 minutes. Be sure to
  decant the oil and effluvia toss, vicariously, into a 400 degree
  (Farenheit, not Kelvin) oven for 15 minutes. Be sure to decant the
  oil and effluvia from pan first. After 5 minutes in the oven, dredge
  the pan and add 1 can frozen blackberries or raspberries over the
  ducky [breasts], return to heat. After 5-10 more minutes, slather the
  duck with the pan juice and add 1/2 the honey-Guinness mixture over
  the ducks. Let cook for 5-10 more minutes (it's a lot of [fooling]
  around, but well worth it...) then spoon the remaining mixture (-5
  tablespoons) over the duck. Return to oven for last 5-10 minutes.
  
  Remove duck from oven, prepare plate with snow peas, ginger fingers,
  julienne carrots and turnip, place 1 duck [breast] on plate, and
  spoon over both some oven tray juice (with fruit) and some of the
  leftover Guinness-honey mixture.
  
  Sheer bliss will then ensue.
  
  Damn near makes one want to turn Irish.
  Submitted By DAN CEPPA   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Country Corn Bread of Sticks
 Categories: Breads, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Appeared in Sun-Sentinel
           -Food Section 7/6/95
  1 1/2 c  Cornmeal
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ea Eggs, beaten
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil or bacon
           -drippings
 
  Preheat oven to 450 degrees.  Combine cornmeal, flour, baking powder,
  baking soda, sugar and salt, stirring well.  Combine eggs, buttermilk
  and oil, or bacon droppings if using; add to cornmeal mixture,
  stirring just until moistened. Place a well greased 8-inch cast-iron
  skillet, 8-inch square pan or cast-iron corn-stick pan in oven for 4
  minutes or until hot. Remove pan from oven; spoon batter into pan,
  filling indentations in corn-stick pan three-fourths full. Bake for
  15 to 20 minutes or until lightly browned. Makes 6 to 8 servings.
  Makes 1-1/2 dozen corn sticks. Per serving (corn bread): 200
  calories, 5 grams protein, 9 grams fat, 24 grams carbohydrates, 55
  milligrams cholesterol, 432 milligrams sodium, 43 percent calories
  from fat. Per corn stick: 89 calories, 2 grams protein, 4 grams fat,
  11 grams carbohydrates, 24 milligrams cholesterol, 192 milligrams
  sodium, 43 percent calories from fat. Recipe from Southern Traditions
  (Viking Studio Books, 1994) by Margaret Agnew. Posted by Sonya Wiren
  7/7/95
  
  Submitted By SONYA WIREN   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Touch of Grace Biscuits
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           Appeared in Sun-Sentinel
           -Food Section 7/6/95
      2 c  Self-rising White Lily (or
           -Martha White) flour
      1 tb Sugar
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      3 tb Vegetable shortening
  1 1/8 c  Buttermilk
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Unsalted butter, melted
 
  Preheat oven to 475 degrees.  Spray an 8-inch round cake pan with
  cooking spray.  In a medium bowl, mix self-rising flour, sugar and
  baking soda until blended.  Cut in vegetable shortening with a pastry
  blender or work in with fingertips until lumps are no larger than
  small peas. Stir in buttermilk and let stand 2 to 3 minutes.  Dough
  will be very wet and soupy. Pour all-purpose flour into a plate.
  Flour hands well. Scoop up about 2 Tbsp dough into the flour.
  Sprinkle more flour over the dough. Gently pick up the clump of dough
  and shape it into a soft round by passing it from hand to hand,
  shaking off excess flour. Place shape dough in middle of prepared pan
  (dough will spread out). Shape 9 more biscuits the same way and place
  around edge of pan.  Brush tops with melted butter and bake 18 to 25
  minutes or until biscuits are evenly golden brown. Cool slightly in
  pan before serving.  Makes 10 biscuits. Per biscuit: 204 calories, 5
  grams protein, 7 grams fat, 30 grams carbohydrates, 7 milligrams
  cholesterol, 473 milligrams sodium, 31 percent calories from fat.
  Posted by Sonya Wiren 7/7/95
  
  Submitted By SONYA WIREN   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Chicken with Vegetables
 Categories: Poultry, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 ts Oil, divided
      3 ts Minced garlic
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/2 ts Thyme
  1 1/2 ts Salt, divided
           Freshly ground black pepper
      6    Chicken thighs, skinned
      3 sm Red onions, quartered
  1 1/4 lb Broccoli, cut in spears
      4    Zucchini, quartered by lengh
      1 md Red pepper, cut in strips
 
       Preheat oven to 450.  Combine 1 teaspoon each of the oil and
  garlic with the lemon peel, thyme, and 1/2 teaspoon each of salt and
  pepper in a bowl.  Add the chicken and onions: toss well to coat.
  Spread out on a jelly roll pan and roast for 40 minutes.
       Meanwhile, in another bowl, combine the remaining oil and
  garlic, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1/2 teaspoon pepper. Add the remaining
  vegetables: toss well. Spread out on another jelly roll pan. Halfway
  through the roasting time for the chicken, place vegetables in the
  oven and roast both pans for the final 20 minutes. Typed by Monica
  Willyard. Submitted By MONICA WILLYARD   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mocha Fudge Pie
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Desserts, Pie/tart
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/3 c  Hot water
      4 ts Instant coffee, divided
    1/2 pk Light fudge brownie mix 19oz
      2 ts Vanilla
      2    Egg whites
           Vegetable cooking spray
    3/4 c  %1 milk
      3 tb Kahlua
      1 pk 3.9 oz instant chocolate
           Pudding
      3 c  Cool Whip, divided
           Chocolate curls, optional
 
       Combine the hot water with 2 teaspoons of the coffee granules in
  a medium bowl: stir well. Add the brownie mix, (you should have about
  2 cups of mix), 1 ts vanilla, and egg whites: stir until well
  blended. Pour into a 9-inch pie plate that has been sprayed with
  cooking spray. Bake at 325 for 22 minutes. Cool the crust completely.
       Combine milk, 2 tablespoons Kahlua, 1 teaspoon coffee granules,
  remaining vanilla, and pudding mix. Beat with a mixer on medium for 1
  minute.  Fold in 1-1/2 cups of the Cool Whip.  Spread evenly over the
  crust.
       Combine the remaining Kahlua and coffee in a bowl: stir well.
  Gently fold in the remaining whipped topping.  Spread over the
  pudding layer. Garnish with chocolate curls if desired.  Serve
  immediately or chill in the refrigerator with a loose cover.
  Submitted By MONICA WILLYARD   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef-Bean Cornbread Casserole
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Meats, Casseroles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Ultra-lean ground beef
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic, minced
           Vegetable cooking spray
      1 tb Chili powder
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
      2 cn Tomato sauce, (8 oz each)
     16 oz Can pinto beans, drained
      1 cn (4.5 oz) chopped green chils
    3/4 c  Skim milk
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
  1 1/3 c  Self-rising cornmeal mix
 
       Cook the beef, onion, and garlic in a large saucepan coated with
  cooking spray over medium-high heat until browned, stirring
  frequently to crumble the beef.  Drain in a collander.
       Return the beef mixture to the pan.  Add the chili powder, cumin,
  sugar, oregano, tomato sauce, beans, and drained chilies: cover and
  cook over medium-low heat for 10 minutes.  Pour the mixture into a
  2-quart casserole coated with cooking spray and set aside.
       Combine the milk and egg in a bowl: stir well.  Add the cornmeal
  mix, and stir well.  Pour over the beef mixture.  Bake at 400 for 20
  minutes or till the cornbread topping is lightly browned.
       This casserole can be made ahead up to the point before making
  the cornbread.  Cover and refrigerate or freeze.  Thaw the casserole
  overnight in the refrigerator.  Let stand at room temperature for 30
  minutes.  Top with the cornbread and bake as directed.
       Each serving contains 448 calories and 9 grams of fat.
  
  Typed by Monica Willyard.
  Submitted By MONICA WILLYARD   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick & Easy Chicken Fried Steak And Gravy
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------STEAK--------------------------------
      4 ea Cube steaks
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  2% milk
      1    Whole large egg
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
           Salt & pepper -- to taste

MMMMM---------------------------GRAVY--------------------------------
      2 tb Pan drippings
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      2 c  2% milk
 
  Dip in milk and egg mixture then flour. Salt and pepper to taste.
  Fry in vegetable oil in large skillet on medium high heat until
  golden brown. After steak is done, pour off pan drippings leaving
  about 2 T in pan. Add 2 T flour. Stir until smooth. Add 2 cups milk.
  Stir and cook until until thickened for steak gravy.
  
  Recipe By     : Joann Cash
  
  From: Jean Cash                       Date: 07-09-95 (14:37) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Creole Style - United States
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Game, Chilies, Rice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-quartered
           Flour
      1    Onion-sliced
      2    Cloves garlic-crushed
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1    Green pepper-sliced thin
      2 tb Butter
      3    Tomatoes-peeled
      1    Sprig of parsley
      1    Sprig of thyme
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Wash and dry pheasant, season well with salt and pepper. Sprinkle them
  lightly with flour and brown on all sides in butter. Remove and keep
  warm. Saute onions in the butter, add the tomatoes, green peppers,
  parsley, garlic, thyme and bay leaf. Simmer for fifteen or twenty
  minutes. Add the broth and wine, bring the liquid to a boil and
  season well with salt and pepper. Return the pheasant to the pan,
  cover and cook for twenty more minutes or until pheasant is very
  tender. Serve with rice.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:21) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant A La Martin - United States
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lg Pheasants-halved
      4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      4 c  Celery-chopped
      2    Onions-quartered
      4    Whole cloves
      2    Inch piece cinnamon stick
      6 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2    Bay leaves
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Butter
 
  Cut each pheasant in half. Combine water and next eight ingredients
  in a large bowl. Marinate pheasant halves in mixture for twelve
  hours. Remove pheasant and dry well. Reserve marinade. Sprinkle
  pheasant with salt and pepper and brown in hot butter in a large
  skillet. Add the marinade and simmer covered about one hour or until
  pheasant is tender, adding more marinade if needed.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:21) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Pheasant With Cabbage - United States
 Categories: Vegetables, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-quartered
    1/4 lb Salt pork
      2 sl Fat salt pork
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1    Onion studded with 4 cloves
      1    Carrot-diced
           Parsley sprigs
      1 c  Water
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Sprig of thyme
      2 c  Hot water
      1    Head cabbage, quartered
      2    Stalks celery
           Knockwurst-diced
 
  Simmer salt pork pieces, in water to cover, for a few minutes. In a
  dutch oven, brown salt pork slices and set aside. Brown the bird, add
  salt, pepper, onion, bay leaf, thyme, celery, parsley, salt pork,
  browned pork salt slices and two cups of water. Simmer covered for
  forty minutes.
  
  Separate cabbage leaves and put into kettle with water to cover and
  simmer for five minutes. Drain and dip into cold water, drain again.
  To the pheasant, add the cabbage, carrot, knockwurst, one cup of hot
  water and cook covered for forty five minutes or until meat is tender.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Silverado - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Or 3 pheasants-disjointed
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Onions-chopped
      1 c  Parsley-chopped
     14 oz Can chicken broth
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      3    Sprigs rosemary
      1 cn Mushrooms-sliced
      6 tb Flour
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Heat the oil in a large dutch oven over medium heat; brown the
  pheasant pieces, a few at a time, on all sides. Discard any excess
  fat. Return all the pheasant to the casserole or dutch oven. Combine
  the onions, parsley, chicken broth, wine and rosemary, pour over
  pheasant. Cover and simmer until meat is fork tender.
  
  To serve, remove pheasant to a warm platter and keep warm. Drain
  mushrooms, reserving liquid; stir into pan drippings. Mix together
  flour and mushroom liquid until smooth; stir into pan drippings until
  thick. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Spoon sauce over
  pheasant or pass in a separate bowl.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Fantasty - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-whole
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Rice stuffing
      4 sl Bacon
    1/2 c  Butter-melted
 
  Wipe pheasants inside and out with a damp cloth. Rub cavity with salt
  and fill loosely with rice stuffing. Tie wings and legs to body and
  close openings with screws. Place breast side up on a rack in a
  roasting pan. Lay two slices of bacon over each breast and roast in a
  350 oven for two hours or until tender, baste with melted butter and
  pan drippings.
  
  RICE STUFFING
  
  1/3 cup rice-precooked 1/4 cup butter 1/4 lb mushrooms-chopped 1-1/2
  cup celery and leaves-chopped 1/4 cup onions-chopped pinch of thyme
  1-1/2 tsp salt 1/4 tsp marjoram 1/2 tsp pepper pinch of sage 1-1/2
  cups water 1/3 cups of pecans
  
  Saute rice in butter over medium heat until golden brown. Add all
  remaining ingredients except pecans. Bring to a boil over high heat
  then simmer two minutes, fluffing rice gently with a fork. Remove
  from heat and add pecans, fluff lightly.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Fantasty - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-whole
           Salt & pepper to taste
           Rice stuffing
      4 sl Bacon
    1/2 c  Butter-melted
 
  Wipe pheasants inside and out with a damp cloth. Rub cavity with salt
  and fill loosely with rice stuffing. Tie wings and legs to body and
  close openings with screws. Place breast side up on a rack in a
  roasting pan. Lay two slices of bacon over each breast and roast in a
  350 oven for two hours or until tender, baste with melted butter and
  pan drippings.
  
  RICE STUFFING
  
  1/3 cup rice-precooked 1/4 cup butter 1/4 lb mushrooms-chopped 1-1/2
  cup celery and leaves-chopped 1/4 cup onions-chopped pinch of thyme
  1-1/2 tsp salt 1/4 tsp marjoram 1/2 tsp pepper pinch of sage 1-1/2
  cups water 1/3 cups of pecans
  
  Saute rice in butter over medium heat until golden brown. Add all
  remaining ingredients except pecans. Bring to a boil over high heat
  then simmer two minutes, fluffing rice gently with a fork. Remove
  from heat and add pecans, fluff lightly.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Pie - United States
 Categories: Game, Vegetables, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant
      1    Bay leaf
      1    StaLk of celery-sliced
      6    Peppercorns
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter
      1    Box pastry mix
      1 c  Light cream
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 lb Can pearl onions
      4 oz Sliced mushrooms
      1 pk Frozen peas
      2 cn Sliced pimentos
 
  Place pheasant in a large kettle and cover with water. Add bay leaf,
  celery, peppercorns and one tablespoon of salt. Bring to a boil,
  cover and simmer for two or three hours or until pheasant is tender.
  Remove meat from bones and strain broth. Melt butter in a sauce pan,
  add flour and stir until blended. Gradually add two cup of the broth,
  stirring constantly. Add cream, salt and pepper. Cook until thick.
  Arrange pheasant pieces, onions, peas, mushrooms and pimentos in a
  two quart casserole. Add sauce to within one inch of top. Prepare
  pastry circle a half inch larger than the casserole and place over
  pheasant mixture, edge of pastry under and pressing the casserole
  with a fork or a spoon. Garnish top with leaf shaped pastry cutouts.
  Bake in preheated 450 oven fifteen minutes or until crust is golden
  brown.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:24) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Mulligan With Dumplings - United States
 Categories: Vegetables, Breads, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      2 c  Carrots-diced
      1 c  Onions-diced
      1 c  Cabbage-shredded
      2 c  Potatoes-diced
      2 tb Fat
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Clean and wash pheasants and cover with water. Add carrots, onions and
  cabbage, cook slowly until tender. Combine potatoes, fat, salt and
  pepper, continue cooking meat and vegetables until an are tender. Add
  dumplings and cook for fifteen minutes without lifting the cover.
  
  Keywords: Potato, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:24) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Pheasant With Purple Plum Sauce - United States
 Categories: Fruit, Salsa/sauce, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Young pheasants-whole
      1    Onion-halved
      2    Stalks celery-diced
      2    Apples-diced
      4    Bacon slices
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Place onions, celery and apple slices inside birds. Two strips of
  bacon over each breast. Season with salt and pepper. Roast in a
  preheated 350 oven for two hours basting with the plum sauce during
  the last half hour of roasting. Serve the remaining sauce in a sauce
  boat.
  
  PLUM SAUCE
  
  1 lb can purple plums 1/4 cup butter 1/4 cup onions-chopped 3 tbs
  lemon juice 1/4 cup brown sugar 2 tsp chili sauce 1 tsp
  worcestershire 1/2 tsp ginger
  
  Drain plums and reserve liquid. Remove pit from plums and puree in
  blender. Melt butter in a small sauce pan, add onions and saute until
  golden brown. Stir in remaining ingredients including plums and
  liquid, simmer for thirty minutes.
  
  Keywords: Plums, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:24) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Pheasant - Mexico
 Categories: Vegetables, Game, Tex/mexican, Fruit, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant-disjointed
      3 tb Oil
           Salt to taste
  1 1/4 ts Garlic-minced
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      1    Avocado-sliced
      1 ts Oregano-diced
      1 lg Onion-sliced
      1 sm Can green peppers
           Drained/seeded/diced
      1    Sweet red pepper
 
  Rinse pheasant and dry with paper towels. In a large skillet heat oil
  and add the pheasant pieces and brown well. Sprinkle the pheasant
  with salt and pepper to taste. Cook covered for ten minutes. Turn and
  cook for fifteen minutes longer. Remove pheasant pieces to a large
  baking pan. Pour off all but two tablespoons of the oil from the
  skillet; reduce heat and add garlic and cook one more minute. Add the
  juices, oregano and salt. Add the onion rings and chili peppers;
  increase heat and bring mixture to a boiling point. Remove pan from
  heat; add the sweet peppers and toss lightly to mix. Arrange
  vegetables evenly over pheasant pieces and baste with the sauce.
  Cover dish tightly with clear plastic. Refrigerate at least six
  hours, turning and basting three or four times. When ready to serve,
  garnish with the avocado slices.
  
  Keywords: Pheasants Forever, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:24) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Ranchero - Mexico
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Game, Tex/mexican, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
           Lard or shortening
     16 oz Water
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Cumin seeds
      4 tb Chili peppers
           Flour for sauce & water
           Roux
 
  Brown the pheasant pieces in the lard in a large skillet or sauce
  pan. Add all ingredients except the roux and bring to a boil. Simmer
  and thicken with the roux and stir thoroughly. Add the pheasant
  pieces, cover and simmer for forty five minutes. Remove the pheasant
  and when ready to serve add the remaining sauce over the pieces.
  
  Keywords: SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:25) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Mexican Style - Mexico
 Categories: Game, Tex/mexican, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Pheasant-shredded/cooked
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 lb Mushrooms
      2 c  Rice
      2 ts Orange rind
      6    Tomatoes-quartered
 
  Cook tomatoes in two tablespoons of butter until they are soft.
  Season with the salt and pepper and keep warm.
  
  In a sauce pan brown the mushrooms in the remaining butter, add the
  pheasant meat, orange rind and season to taste. Heat the mixture
  thoroughly. Serve the pheasant in the center of a ring of cooked,
  buttered rice and surround with the sauteed tomatoes.
  
  Keywords: Rice, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:25) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Down Mexico Way - Mexico
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Game, Tex/mexican, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
           Lard or shortening
      8 oz Can tomatoes-chopped
      3 tb Cumin seeds
           Flour & water roux to
           Thicken
      8 oz Water
      2 tb Sugar
      3 sm Chili peppers
           Chopped
      1 lg Onion-chopped
      4 oz Tequila
 
  In a large skillet saute the pheasant pieces in the lard. Cook until
  golden brown. In a large sauce pan add all remaining ingredients
  except sugar and roux. Bring to a boil and stir, reduce to simmer,
  add roux and thicken. Add the pheasant pieces, Tequila and sugar,
  cover and cook for fifty minutes.
  
  Keywords: SJK, Tequila From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:26) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sherried Pheasant - China
 Categories: Chinese, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pheasant - disjointed
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Ginger-chopped
 
  Combine flour and salt, coat the pheasant pieces with the mixture.
  Melt a half cup butter, brown pheasant on all sides and place
  pheasant pieces in a covered dish. In a saucepan combine the
  remaining butter, sherry, soy sauce, lemon juice and ginger. Bring to
  a boil stirring constantly and pour over pheasant. Bake in a
  preheated 350 oven for about one hour or until tender. Turn pheasant
  once during baking.
  
  Keywords: Soy sauce From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:26) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant With Black Bean Sauce - China
 Categories: Vegetables, Chinese, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-cut into bite size
           Pieces
    1/4 c  Ground pork
      1    Egg
      4 tb Chinese black beans
      2    Scallions-sliced
      4    Cloves garlic-crushed
      6 sl Fresh ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Creme sherry
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Oil
      1 tb Cornstarch
 
  Remove the pheasant breast and cut into bite size pieces. Cut the
  remaining edible portions of the bird across the bone in the typical
  Chinese fashion, into bite size pieces. Crush the black beans and
  garlic in a mortar and pestle adding the equal amounts of oil,
  sherry, soy sauce and the fresh ginger. While the beans are setting,
  take the scallions and cut into two inch pieces. Dissolve the
  cornstarch in two tablespoons of water, and in a separate bowl beat
  the egg. Now you're ready to continue. Saute the pheasant pieces in a
  large skillet until almost done. Add the pork and continue cooking
  for three more minutes. Combine the black beans, sugar and mix well.
  Add a half cup of water and bring to a boil, cover and cook for five
  minutes. Stir in the cornstarch to thicken if necessary. Add the
  scallions and mix well. Pour in the beaten egg gently and turn off
  the heat.
  
  Keywords: Sherry, SJK, Soy sauce From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:26) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Fried Pheasant In Paper - China
 Categories: Chinese, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant
      1 tb Chinese Rice Wine or Sake
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1    Mui Kew Lu or Sherry
      2    Egg whites
      2 ts Dried fish
      1 ts Celery
      1 ts Ginger
      1 ts Parsley
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  Skin and bone the pheasant and chill the meat. Cut the meat into two
  inches, let it stand at room temperature. In a bowl, combine the rice
  wine or Sake, soy sauce, Mui Kew Lu or sherry and the egg white.
  Mince celery, ginger, parsley and combine with liquids. Add the salt,
  sugar, and dried fish if desired, combine pheasant to the bowl and
  marinate it for one hour.
  
  In a wide pan heat enough cooking oil to just cover the bottom, add
  the pheasant and the marinate sauce, saute gently for ten minutes.
  Put two, sixteen inch squares of parchment paper or heavy cellophane
  next to each other with one point facing you. Put half the pheasant a
  little below the center of each square and fold the point of the
  paper up from the bottom and in from both sides to cover the
  pheasant. Fold the top down and secure in the split created by the
  previous folds. In a large skillet, bring four cups of oil and fry
  for ten minutes. Remove the packets and serve immediately. Slit the
  paper and serve pheasant from the paper.
  
  Keywords: Sherry, SJK, Soy sauce From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:26) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Mandarin Style - China
 Categories: Chinese, Game, Herbs/spice, Syrups
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Honey
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 ts Fresh ginger
    1/2 c  Scotch whisky
 
  Blend all liquids for sauce and brush inside pheasant. Let stand for
  one hour. Arrange pheasant on spit, baste with sauce on outside of
  pheasant. Roast for about one and a half hours or until tender.
  
  Keywords: Soy sauce From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:27) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Pheasant - China
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Chinese, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-whole
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2    Garlic cloves-minced
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Five spice
      2 tb Oil
 
  Wash and dry pheasants. Mix together the soy sauce, garlic, salt,
  pepper, sugar, five spices and oil. Rub the pheasant inside and out.
  Let stand for one hour. Place on a rack in a shallow roasting pan.
  Roast in a 425 oven for two hours or until tender and brown. Baste
  and turn frequently. To serve, carve into joints or chop up into inch
  wide pieces Chinese fashion.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:27) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Pheasant And Water - China
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Chinese, Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Chinese mushrooms-dried
      2    Pheasants
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2    Cut almond-ground
      3 tb Oil
      1 c  Water chestnuts
      2 tb Soy sauce
 
  Soak dried mushrooms in cold water for twenty minutes, drain into a
  mixture of the salt, pepper and almonds. Heat the oil in a skillet;
  brown the pheasant on all sides. Add the mushrooms, water chestnuts
  and soy sauce. Cook over low heat for five minutes.
  
  Keywords: Pheasants Forever, SJK, Soy sauce, Water chestnuts From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:27) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Drunk Pheasant - China
 Categories: Chinese, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-uncooked
      1    Ginger root-sliced
      1    Scallion-dried
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
 
  Bring two cups of salted water to a boil in a saucepan. Drop in the
  breast with the scallions, ginger root and a little more salt. Bring
  to a boil once more and cook for ten more minutes. Remove breast to a
  plate and skin and bone.
  
  Place the remaining pheasant in a container and add the sherry, cover
  and keep refrigerated overnight. When ready to serve cut pheasant
  into inch cubes.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:27) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Far Eastern Pheasant - China
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Vegetables, Chinese, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Pheasant-diced
  2 1/2 c  Bread cubes-toasted
      2 c  Bean sprouts
    1/2 c  Mushrooms-sliced
    2/3 c  Water chestnuts-sliced
    2/3 c  Pineapple juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Corn starch
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Vinegar
    1/4 c  Almonds
 
  Combine bread cubes, sprouts, chestnuts, mushrooms, salt and
  pheasant, set aside.
  
  In a small pan add the sugar, corn starch, juice and soy sauce, bring
  to a boil, stir until thick, remove from heat and add the vinegar.
  Place the pheasant mixture in a casserole dish and pour sauce on top.
  Bake at 350 for thirty minutes. Sprinkle almonds on top and serve.
  
  Keywords: Pheasants Forever, Pineapple, SJK, Soy sauce, Water
  chestnuts From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:28) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gold And Jade Pheasant - China
 Categories: Vegetables, Chinese, Game, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-roasted and
           Sliced
      1    Onion-diced
      6 c  Water
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Salt
      1 ts Accent
     12    Thin slices of ham
      1 bn Broccoli
 
  In a saucepan add the pheasants, water, salt and onion; bring to a
  boil. Cover and cook over low heat for one and a half hours. Slice
  the pheasant. Strain two cups of the broth.
  
  Mix the Accent, cornstarch and a little water, stir into the broth.
  Cook over low heat for five minutes. Taste for seasoning. On a large
  platter rotate ham and pheasant, arrange the broccoli on the sides of
  the meat. Pour sauce over all.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:28) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Velvet Pheasant With Mushrooms - China
 Categories: Chinese, Game, Herbs/spice, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pheasant breasts-whole
      3 ts Cornstarch
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 tb Oil
      1 cn White mushrooms
      1 ts Salt
      2    Garlic cloves-minced
      2 ts Ginger-minced
 
  Cut the pheasant into match like pieces, place in a bowl. Toss in the
  cornstarch, soy sauce, pepper and oil. Let stand for ten minutes.
  Drain the mushrooms and save a quarter cup of the juice. Mix the
  remaining cornstarch with the juice and add salt to taste.
  
  Heat the remaining oil in a skillet and add the pheasant, garlic and
  ginger. Cook one minute, add the mushrooms and liquid, cook over low
  heat another five minutes. Do not overcook.
  
  Keywords: Soy sauce From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:28) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant And Noodles - Burma
 Categories: Asian, Nuts/grains, Vegetables, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      1 ts Saffron
      4 c  Water
      1 tb Salt
  2 1/2 c  Onions-chopped
      3    Gloves garlic-minced
      2 ts Ginger-minced
    1/2 ts Chili pepper
    1/4 c  Oil
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Coconut milk
      1 pk Egg noodles
 
  Wash and dry pheasants; rub with saffron. Bring water to a boil, add
  pheasants and cook over low heat for one hour. Remove pheasants and
  cut into small pieces. Continue cooking stock until it is reduced to
  about two cups.
  
  Heat oil in a deep skillet; add the pheasants and the chopped onions,
  garlic and chili peppers, brown thoroughly. Mix flour with the
  coconut milk and stir into pan. Cook over low heat until thick. Cook
  for five minutes; taste for seasoning, pour over cooked noodles.
  Garnish with hard boiled eggs, cucumbers or scallions.
  
  Keywords: Pheasant, Pheasants Forever, Saffron, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:28) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burmese Spicy Pheasant - Burma
 Categories: Asian, Curries, Game, Herbs/spice, Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pheasants-disjointed
    1/2 c  Oil
  1 1/2 c  Onions-chopped
      2 ts Ginger root
      4    Garlic cloves-minced
      4 c  Coconut milk
      6 c  Noodles-cooked
      2 ts Salt
      2 tb Cornstarch
      3 tb Curry powder
      3    Hard boiled eggs
    1/2 ts Chili pepper
    1/2 c  Scallions-sliced
      3 tb Water
 
  Heat the oil in a large saucepan; saute the onions, garlic, ginger and
  curry powder until browned. Add the pheasant and saute ten minutes,
  stir in the coconut milk and the salt. Cover and cook
  
  thirty minutes or until tender. Mix the cornstarch with the water and
  blend into the sauce stirring until thickened and add remaining
  coconut milk. Heat and serve over the noodles, sprinkle the chili
  peppers, eggs and scallions on top.
  
  Keywords: Pheasants Forever, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:29) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: East Indian Pheasant - Malaya
 Categories: Game, Asian, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 sm Pheasants
    1/2 c  Butter
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/8 ts Saffron
      2 tb Tomato puree
  1 1/2 c  Light cream
 
  Melt butter in a heavy skillet, saute pheasant until browned. Season
  with salt and pepper, saffron, tomato puree and cream and blend well.
  Cover and simmer for fifteen minutes. Remove cover and cook until
  sauce is reduced in half.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:30) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Pheasant On Skewers - Indonesia
 Categories: Game, Indonesian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pheasants-disjointed
    1/2 c  Walnuts-ground
    1/2 c  Onions-chopped
      2    Cloves garlic-minced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Pound to a paste the walnuts, onions, garlic and salt. Blend in the
  juice. Toss the pheasant in the mixture and let stand for one hour.
  Thread the pheasant on skewers. Arrange on a broiler pan and broil
  for fifteen minutes, or until tender.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:30) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Pheasant - Thailand
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Game, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Shallots-chopped
      8    Pheasant breasts
      2    Garlic cloves-minced
    1/2 ts Coriander-ground
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2 c  Coconut cream
      2 ts Lemon rind
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Peanuts-chopped
 
  Pound together the shallots, garlic, chili peppers, peanuts,
  coriander, lemon rind, sugar and salt. Sip the pheasant in the
  mixture. Melt the butter in a large and deep skillet; saute the
  cream, soy sauce and any remaining spice mixture. Cover and cook over
  low heat twenty minutes, or until pheasant is tender. Season to taste.
  
  Keywords: Soy sauce, Thai From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:30) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Pheasant And Giblets - Japan
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Herbs/spice, Japanese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pheasant breasts
    1/2 lb Chicken gizzards
    1/2 lb Chicken livers
    1/2 c  Sake or sherry
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts Ginger
 
  Wash the gizzards well and cut into bite sized pieces. Cover with
  water, bring to a boil and cook ten minutes, drain. Cut the pheasant
  breasts and livers into bite sized pieces; use twelve small skewers
  and thread the pheasant, gizzards and chicken livers, alternately.
  
  Combine the sake or sherry, soy sauce and sugar in a sauce pan. Bring
  to a boil and brush on the skewed meat with the mixture, coating them
  well. Broil ten minutes; turn skewers and baste with more sauce
  frequently. Sprinkle with ginger. Serve with grated white radish or
  turnips and the remaining sauce.
  
  Keywords: Pheasants Forever, Radish, Sake, Sherry, SJK, Soy sauce,
  Turnips From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:31) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant And Rice - Japan
 Categories: Game, Japanese, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pheasant breasts
      1 c  Mushrooms-sliced
      1 c  Green peas-cooked
      3 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Accent
      2 c  Rice
      1 ts Salt
 
  Cut the pheasant breasts in half inch cubes; marinate in the soy
  sauce one hour. Wash the rice, then add it to the chicken broth and
  let stand forty five minutes. Bring to a boil and add salt, accent,
  mushrooms and mix well. Arrange the pheasant on top. Cover and cook
  over low heat twenty minutes or until tender. Pour the peas on top.
  
  Keywords: Soy sauce From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:32) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Pheasant - Korea
 Categories: Game, Korean, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      3 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Chili peppers
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Scallions
      1    Garlic clove-minced
      3 tb Sesame seeds
 
  Cook the pheasant with the water, salt and chili peppers until tender,
  about forty five minutes. Remove the pheasant. Mix the soy sauce and
  flour, stir into boiling stock. Cook over low heat, until it reaches
  the boiling point. Return the pheasant pieces and add the scallions,
  garlic and sesame seeds. Cook ten minutes and serve on rice.
  
  Keywords: SJK, Soy sauce From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:32) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Turduri Style - India
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Game, Indian, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-whole or split
      2 c  Yogurt
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Chili peppers
      2 ts Coriander
    1/4 ts Anise
      4 tb Oil
 
  Mix together the yogurt, lemon juice, salt, chili peppers, coriander
  and anise. Marinate the pheasant in the sauce for about twenty four
  hours. Drain well, brush with oil and roast in a rotisserie, in a 375
  oven or over charcoal. The time will vary depending on whether the
  pheasant is whole, split or quartered.
  
  Keywords: Yogurt From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:32) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Curry - India
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Curries, Game, Indian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-disjointed
      2 ts Coriander
      1 ts Cumin
      2 tb Sesame seeds
      1 tb Turmeric
    1/2 ts Chili peppers
      2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Ginger
      2 ts Salt
      3 tb Butter
      1 c  Onions-sliced
 
  Pound together the coriander, cumin, sesame seeds, turmeric, chili
  peppers, ginger and salt. Rub mixture into pheasant pieces. Melt the
  butter in a casserole dish and brown onions in it. Add the pheasant
  and any left over spices and brown. Stir in the water; cover and cook
  over low heat forty five minutes or until tender. Cover for ten
  minutes.
  
  Keywords: Pheasants Forever, Sesame, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:33) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Kabab - India
 Categories: Game, Herbs/spice, Indian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-whole
      2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Coriander
      1 ts Ginger
  2 1/2 c  Onions-chopped
      2 ts Turmeric
      4 tb Butter-melted
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Yogurt
 
  Wash and dry the pheasant; prick the skin with a fork. Mix together
  the salt, pepper, coriander and ginger. Rub the pheasants with the
  spice mixture. Roast in a moderate 350 oven for twenty five minutes.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:34) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Madras - India
 Categories: Fruit, Curries, Game, Indian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
           Salt & pepper
    1/4 c  Butter
      2    Onions-chopped
      2 tb Curry powder
      2 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      2    Green apples diced
 
  Season with salt and pepper, brown in butter, remove from pan. Add
  onions and apples and saute until tender. Sprinkle with the curry
  powder and flour. Cook for two minutes. Stir in the broth and bring
  to a boil. Add pheasant, cover and cook over low heat thirty or forty
  minutes.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-09-95 (21:34) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Skillet Squash
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 sl Bacon
      2 lb Yellow squash, sliced
      1 md Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 ts Dried whole dillweed
      1 ts Onion salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
    Cook bacon in a large skillet until crisp; remove bacon, reserving 1
  tablespoon drippings in skillet. Crumble bacon, and set aside.
    Saute squash and onion in reserved drippings 6 minutes or until
  tender; stir in sour cream and seasonings. Spoon into serving dish;
  sprinkle with crumbled bacon.
  
  Recipe from Marie H. Webb in 3/92 "Southern Living". Typed by Jeff
  Pruett. Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven-Fried Eggplant
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Fine dry breadcrumbs
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    3/4 lb Eggplant
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
           Garnish: fresh basil
 
    Combine first 4 ingredients in a shallow dish.
    Peel eggplant, and cut into 1/4-inch slices. Spread both sides of
  eggplant slices with mayonnaise; dredge in breadcrumb mixture. Place
  o a lightly greased baking sheet. Bake at 400 degrees, uncovered, for
  10 to 12 minutes or until browned. Garnish, if desired.
  
  Recipe from Josephine Jones in 8/91 "Southern Living". Typed by Jeff
  Pruett.
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whole Poached Salmon with Sauce
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      7 lb Whole salmon, dressed, with
           Head and tail left on.
      1 tb Salt
      1 md Carrot
      1 md Celery stalk
      1 md Onion
 14 1/2 oz Can chicken broth
    1/4 c  White wine (optional)
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Whole peppercorns
           Remoulade Sauce (see dirs)
      2 lg Bunches dill for garnish
      2    Bunches radishes
           Lemon slices for garnish
 
  THE DAY AHEAD:
  
  1. Rinse salmon with running cold water. Rub salmon inside and out
  with salt; wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight.
  
  ABOUT 4-1/2 HOURS BEFORE SERVING OR EARLY IN DAY:
  
  2. Thinly slice carrot, celery, and onion. Unwrap salmon; cut
  crosswise into thirds. In 12-inch skillet over high heat, heat
  carrot, celery, onion, chicken broth, white wine, bay leaf, whole
  peppercorns, and 1 cup water to boiling. Reduce heat to low; cover
  and simmer 5 minutes.
  
  3. Add the 2 smaller pieces of salmon to skillet; over high heat,
  heat to boiling. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 30 minutes or
  until salmon flakes easily when tested with a fork. With slotted
  pancake turner, remove salmon pieces to jelly-roll pan. Cool slightly
  and remove top part of salmon skin; cover and refrigerate.
  
  4. In same skillet, prepare remaining piece of salmon as above.
  Refrigerate salmon until well chilled, about 2-1/2 hours.
  
  5. Meanwhile, prepare Remoulade Sauce (see below); cover and
  refrigerate.
  
  6. To serve, line large platter with dill. Arrange salmon pieces over
  dill to reassemble whole salmon.
  
  7. Spread salmon with thin coating of Remoulade Sauce. Slice 1-1/2
  bunches of radishes paper-thin; arrange radish slices, overlapping,
  over sauce on salmon to resemble scales. Garnish with lemon slices
  and remaining radishes. Makes 16 main-dish servings.
  
  REMOULADE SAUCE -----------------------
    In medium bowl, with wire whisk or fork, mix 1-1/2 cups mayonnaise,
  1/3 cup chopped capers, 1/3 cup prepared white horseradish, 3
  tablespoons milk, 3 tablespoons lemon juice, 1 tablespoon chopped
  fresh dill (or 3/4 teaspoon dried dill weed), and 1-1/2 teaspoons
  grated lemon peel.
  
  Each serving: About 445 calories, 28g fat, 89mg cholesterol, 485mg
  sodium. Recipe in December, 1991 "Good Housekeeping". Posted by Jeff
  Pruett. Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet-and-Sour Hot Slaw
 Categories: Salads, Snacks
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 md Cabbage, shredded (about
           2-1/2 lbs)
    3/4 c  Chopped onion
    3/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  White vinegar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Celery seeds
      1 ts Paprika
    3/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Red pepper
           Cabbage leaves
 
    Combine first 3 ingredients in a large bowl; set aside. Combine
  sugar and remaining ingredients except cabbage leaves; stir until
  blended. Pour over cabbage mixture; cover and chill. Drain mixture
  and spoon onto cabbage-lined serving bowl.
  
  Recipe from Barbara McGrath in 3/92 "Southern Living". Computerized
  by Jeff Pruett.
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Chicken Breast Tarragon
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 ea Chicken breast halves,
           -skinned and boned
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Mayonnaise or salad dressing
      1 ts Dried whole tarragon,crushed
      1 ts Dijon mustard
 
    Place chicken breasts between two sheets of heavy-duty plastic wrap;
  pound to 1/2-inch thickness; using a meat mallet or rolling pin. Place
  chicken on lightly greased rack of a broiler pan, and sprinkle with
  salt and pepper.
    Combine mayonnaise and remaining ingredients; spread half of
  mayonnaise mixture on chicken breasts. Broil 4 inches from heat 4
  minutes. Turn and spread with remaining mayonnaise mixture; broil 4
  minutes or until done.
  
  Recipe from Donna Kay Carlson in November, 1989 "Southern Living".
  Typed for you by Jeff Pruett.
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Miniature Pecan Pies
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart
      Yield: 16 pies (2")
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Syrup, dark corn
      2 tb Butter (or marg.)
    1/4 ts Salt
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Pecans; coarsely chopped
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
     16    Tart shells (2"); unbaked
 
  Combine sugar, corn syrup, butter, and salt in a saucepan; bring to a
  boil, stirring constantly.  Remove from heat.
  
  Break eggs into a medium bowl; remove 1 tablespon egg white, and set
  aside. Beat remaining eggs with a fork until well combined. Gradually
  add hot mixture to beaten eggs, stirring constantly.  Stir in pecans
  and vanilla.
  
  Beat reserved egg white until foamy; lightly brush on each side of
  tart shell.  Spoon filling into tart shells, filling 3/4 full.  Bake
  at 450 degrees for 5 minutes; reduce heat to 325 degrees, and bake 12
  minutes or until filling is set.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, sometime in 1979. Typos by Nancy
  Coleman. Submitted By NANCY COLEMAN   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate-Covered Pecan Fritters
 Categories: Desserts, Candies
      Yield: 4 dozen
 
      2 pk Vanilla caramels; 6 oz. ea.
      2 tb Milk, evaporated
      2 c  Pecan halves
      8 oz Milk choc. bar; broken into
           -squares
    1/3    Parafin bar; broken into
           -pieces
 
  Combine caramels and milk in top of double boiler; heat until caramels
  melt, stirring constantly.  Beat with wooden spoon until creamy; stir
  in pecans.  Drop by teaspoonfuls onto buttered waxed paper; let stand
  15 minutes.
  
  Combine chocolate and paraffin in top of double boiler; heat until
  melted and smooth, stirring occasionally.  Using a toothpick, dip
  each fritter into chocolate mixture.  Place on waxed paper to cool.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, sometime in 1979. Typos by Nancy
  Coleman. Submitted By NANCY COLEMAN   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Persimmon Fruit Salad
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     11 oz Mandarin oranges; drained
      2 c  Apple; diced
      2    Bananas; sliced
    1/2 c  Persimmons; peeled & sliced
    1/4 c  Walnuts, black; chopped
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Cream, whipped
      1 ts Sugar
 
  Combine fruits and nuts, stirring gently.  Combine remaining
  ingredients; mix well, and pour over fruit mixture.  Toss lightly.
  Chill 1 to 2 hours
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, sometime in 1979. Typos by Nancy
  Coleman. Submitted By NANCY COLEMAN   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 39th Parallel Pheasant - Korea
 Categories: Vegetables, Game, Herbs/spice, Korean
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2    Pheasants, disjointed
      1 lb Bok choy or Chinese cabbage
      3 tb Ginger, fresh
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    3/4 c  Rice wine
      6    Garlic cloves, minced
      2 tb Pepper, chopped in one-inch
           -pieces
    1/2 c  Peanut oil
      3 oz Fermeted black beans
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Put Bok Choy and pheasant in a large sauce pan and add enough water
  to cover. Add all remaining ingredients and bring to a boil. Cover and
  simmer forty minutes or until tender.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Sukh - India
 Categories: Vegetables, Herbs/spice, Game, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Pheasants, disjointed
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ginger, powdered
      6 tb Butter
      2 c  Onion, chopped
      1 ts Cumin, ground
      1 tb Coriander
    3/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      2 c  Chick peas
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Wash and dry pheasant; rub with the salt and ginger. Melt the butter
  in a deep skillet or casserole dish, brown the pheasant and onions in
  it. Add the chickpeas, cumin, coriander and pepper. Cover and cook
  over low heat for ten minutes. Stir in the broth; cover and cook for
  thirty minutes, remove the cover for the last ten minutes.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: All-Bran Muffins # 3
 Categories: Muffins
      Yield: 8 muffins
 
      2 tb Shortening
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Kellogg's All-Bran
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Cream shortening and sugar thoroughly; add egg and beat until
  creamy.Add All-Bran and milk; let soak until the moisture is taken
  up. Sift flour with salt and baking powder; add to first mixture and
  stir konly until flour disappears. Fill greased muffin pans 2/3 full
  and bake in a moderate oven 400 degrees for about 30 minutes or until
  done.
  
  Note; When sour milk or buttermil is used instead of sweet milk, use
  1/2 tsp soda and only 1 tsp baking powder. Makes 8 large or 12 small
  muffins.
  
  From Kellogg's Phamphlet
  
  Typed by G.Major           07\05\95
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bran Muffins  # 4
 Categories: Muffins
      Yield: 16 muffins
 
    1/4 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Brown sugar (firmly packed)
    1/4 c  Molasses
      2    Eggs,unbeaten
      1 c  Sweet milk
      1 c  Quaker flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Quaker bran
    1/2 c  Raisins, optional
 
  Cream shortening and sugar together.Add molasses and eggs and beat
  together well. Add milk and then the bran.Sift flourl,baking
  powder,soda and salt together.Then add raisins if desired,mixing
  well.Place in greased muffin tins.Bake in hot oven at 400-425 degrees
  for 15 -20 minutes.
  
  typed by G.Major            07\08\95 from a quaker label
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marshmallow Surprise Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 dozen
 
    1/2 c  Soft butter
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
    1/2 ts Almond extract
  1 3/4 c  Sifted all- purpose flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 c  Thick raspberry jam
    1/2 lb Marshmallows(regular size)
 
  Mix butter,sugar,egg and almond extract together thoroughly.Sift
  flour and baking powder together into creamed mixture and blend
  well.Chill dough thoroughly.Heat oven to 375 degrees.Roll dough very
  thin 1/8" thick and cut into 2" rounds.Put on ungreased cookie
  sheet.Bake 6 - 8 minutes,until delicately browned.Remove from oven
  and centre each cookie with 1/2 tsp of the raspberry jam.Cut
  marshmallows in half crosswise and cover jam on top of each cookie
  with half a marshmallow.Return to oven for 1 - 2 minutes kuntil
  marshmallows are soft.Cool cookies on cake racks,then ice with glossy
  chocolate icing.
  
  Typed by G.Major            07\08\95 From a newspaper
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mr.Christie's Crunchy Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 lb Frying chicken,cut in pieces
    2/3 c  Flour
      2    Eggs,beaten
      1 tb Water
      1    Stack premium crackers,
           Crushed
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Melted butter
 
  Wash chicken pieces and pat dry.Season with salt and pepper.Dredge
  with flour.Dip each piece into egg beaten with the water. Roll in
  premium cracker crumbs.completely coat each piece with crumbs.Place
  in shallow buttered baking dish or pan.Drizzle melted butter on each
  piece.Bake in pre-heated 350 degree oven for 1 hour.
  
  For flavour variations mix crackers with any one of the following;
  1/4 c grated parmesan cheese 1 ts grated lemon rind 1/4 ts garlic
  powder 1 ts mixed herbs; thyme,marjoram and sweet basil.
  
  Typed by G.Major         07\08\95 From the label of Mr.Christie's Soda
  Crackers
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: All-Bran Muffins # 2
 Categories: Muffins
      Yield: 12 muffins
 
      2 tb Shortening
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg,well beaten
      1 c  Sour milk
      1 c  Kellogg's all-bran
      1 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Cream the shortening and sugar,add egg and sour milk.Add all-bran and
  let soak until most of the moistkure is taken up.Sift floour with
  baking powder,soda and salt and add to first mixture,stisrring only
  until flour disappears.Fill greased muffin tins 2/3 full and bake in
  a moderate oven 400 degrees for 20 to 25 minutes.
  
  typed by G.Major       07\08\95 From a newspaper
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PAPA BREAUX'S BARBEQUE SHRIMP
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Large shrimp
      4    Fresh jalapeno peppers
           Cheddar cheese
      1 lb Bacon
           Barbeque sauce
 
  Wash shrimp, leaving peelings on, drop in boiling salted water (for
  more flavor add onion, celery, garlic, red and black pepper, and
  slice of lemon).  Boil 10 to 15 minutes, remove, drain and set aside
  to cool.
  
  Cut each jalapeno pepper into 4 long pieces. Cut cheddar cheese into
  long pieces about 1/4 - 1/2 inch in diameter. Cook bacon until almost
  done but not crispy. Peel and devein shrimp, slit down the middle,
  (but not into two pieces). Place one pepper and one piece of cheedar
  cheese in each shrimp. Wrap each shrimp in bacon. Coat with your
  favorite barbeque sauce and place on barbeque grill. Turn as needed.
  Leave on grill until cheese is melted. Submitted By ROGER MARTIN   On
   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Lentil-Vegetable Stew
 Categories: Vegetables, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Wine Sherry
      1 c  Onion chopped
      1 c  Carrot shredded
    1/2 c  Potato sweet diced
      1 md Pepper green
      2 tb Garlic clove minced
      2 c  Lentils
      6 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
    1/4 ts Cumin seed, ground
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
  In a skillet over medium high heat, bring sherry to a simmer. Add
  onions and saute 2 minutes.  Add carrots, sweet potato, bell pepper,
  and garlic; saute 1 minute until sherry evaporates. Spoon into slow
  cooker. Add remaining ingredients. Cover and cook on low for 8 to 10
  hours until lentils are cooked. Add salt and pepper to taste. Serve
  over rice (recommend basmati or jasmine) ---end
  Submitted By MONICA WILLYARD   On   07-07-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Penette In Padella
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16 oz Penette pasta
      1 oz Chinese black mushrooms
  3 1/2 tb Extra Virgin olive oil
      6 tb Brandy
  3 1/2 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
      2 tb Parsley dried
      6 tb Cream, heavy whipping
    1/2 c  Parmesan grated
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
  Soak the dried mushrooms for at least a 1/2 hours.  Squeeze must of
  liquid out and set aside.  Chop mushrooms into small pieces. Keep 1/2
  cup of the water. In a large diameter fry pan add about 3 tbs of
  olive oil under medium heat. Put in the dry penette. Sort of toast
  the penette stirring frequently to keep from being burned until they
  darken about 8 minutes. Add brandy and keep stirring until all
  alcohol evaporates. Take from fire and set aside. In another fry pan
  put 1/2 tbs of olive oil until medium heat. Added mushrooms and
  parsely. Saute' stirring occasionally for about 3 minutes. Add heavy
  cream and stir well. Then add the parmesan cheese and stir to achieve
  a smooth paste. Remove from heat. Return penette to medium heat. Add
  broth and mushroom water. Cover and cook about 10 minutes until al
  dente. Uncover and let most of liquid boil off.  Stir in the mushroom
  mixture and cook until heated about 1 minute. ---end Submitted By
  HENRY REINTGES   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Roasted Potatoes
 Categories: Vegetables, Potatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Potato, raw (lbs)
      1 md Pepper red
      1 tb Garlic clove minced
      4 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Rosemary dried
 
  You can use any type potato but get the small size.  Wash well but do
  not peel. Mix in  a small bowl all the ingredients and rub onto the
  potatoes. Place in a 400 degree oven for about one hour until
  potatoes tender. Options: Use sliced onions with or instead of red
  pepper. Add a 1/2 tsp of liquid smoke for meal smell.
  
  ~--end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Cheese-Olive Snacks
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Appetizers, Breads
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  American cheese, grated
      1 cn Olives, ripe, drained 4.25oz
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
      6    English muffins, split
 
    Combine the cheese, olives and onion. spread over muffin halves.
  Broil 4 in. from the heat for 5 minutes or until the cheese is
  melted. Serve immediately.
  Submitted By KAY CROWLEY   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Dip in a Bread Bowl
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Sour cream
      1 pk Ranch dressing mix (1 oz)
      1 pk Spinach frozen, thaw & drain
    1/4 c  Onion chopped
    3/4 ts Basil dried
    1/2 ts Oregano dried
      1    Loaf of round bread
           Raw vegetables
 
   In a bowl, combine first 6 ingredients. Chill for at least 1 hour.
  Cut a 1-1/2 in. slice off the top of the loaf; set aside. Hollow out
  the bottom part, leaving a thick shell. Cut or tear the slice from
  the top of the loaf and the bread from inside into bite-size pieces.
  Fill the shell with dip; set on large platter. Arrange bread pieces,
  veggies around & serve. Taste of Home Magazine, July 1995. MM Format:
  KCrowley Submitted By KAY CROWLEY   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nougat Tart From Tours (Tarte De Tours Au Nougat)
 Categories: Pastry, Pie/tart, Nuts/grains, French
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------TARTE DE TOURS AU NOUGAT-----------------------
    150 g  Shortcrust pastry
           Flour
           Butter; for greasing

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
     40 g  Glace cherries
     40 g  Candied orange peel
     40 g  Candied angelica
     75 g  Apricot jam
      4 ea Egg whites
     50 g  Sugar
    100 g  Ground almonds; mixed with
     50 g  Icing sugar

MMMMM--------------------------MACERATE-------------------------------
    200 ml Rum

MMMMM--------------------------DUSTING-------------------------------
     30 g  Icing sugar

MMMMM---------------------------QUELLE--------------------------------
           ++ French Country Cooking
           ++ The Roux Brothers
           ++ PAPERMAC 1992
           ++ ISBN 0-333-57670-5
           ++ Typed by Rene Gagnaux

MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 1 22CM_TART--------------------------
 
  (FOR A FLAN RING, about 22 cm / 9 in diameter, 2 cm / 3/4 in deep) THE
  candied fruits: cut into small dice and place in a saucepan with the
  rum. Warm slightly to speed up the maceration and leave to macerate.
  THE PASTRY CASE: ON a lightly floured marble or wooden surface, roll
  out the pastry as thinly as possible. Grease the flan ring, stand it
  on a baking sheet and line with the pastry. Pinch up the edges of the
  pastry to make an attractive, even frill. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
  15 minutes before you take the pastry case out of the fridge, preheat
  the oven to 200 oC (400 oF). PRICK the bottom of the pastry case with
  the point of a knife or a fork, line it with greaseproof paper or
  foil, fill with baking beans and bake blind in the preheated oven for
  about 15 minutes. Leave to cool slightly, then remove the beans with
  a spoon and lift out carefully the paper or foil. REDUCE the oven
  temperature to 180 oc (350 oF). PUT the apricot jam in a saucepan and
  heat until reduced by one-quarter. Immediately brush the glaze over
  the bottom of the pastry case. Spread the candied fruits as evenly as
  possible on top of the glaze. BEAT the egg whites until firm, then
  beat in the sugar. Using a slotted or metal spoon, gently fold in the
  ground almond and icing sugar mixture, taking care not to overwork.
  Pour the mixture into the pastry case and smooth the surface with a
  palette knife. It should be very smooth. BAKE in the preheated oven
  for 30 minutes. Leave in the tin for 10 ++- * VbReader 2.22 #549 * A
  truly wise man never plays leapfrog with a unicorn. ++- QScan/PCB
  v1.17b / 01-0348 * Origin: FidoNet: CRS Online, Toronto, Ontario
  (1:229/15) From: Sam Lefkowitz Date: 07-09-95 Subject: Cooking Snake
  *CR*
  ======================================================================
  ==== ==== Hmmm, here's an unusual one but there are different tastes
  in food. -Begin Recipe Export- QBook version 1.00.14
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut, Crumb or Cornflake Pie Crusts
 Categories: Allergy, Pie/tart, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
           -%%%
           %%%%% COCONUT PIE CRUST
           -%%%%%
           %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
           -%%%
      2 c  Flaked coconut
    1/4 c  Butter or milk free
           -margarine
 
  Lightly brown the coconut in the margarine over medium heat.  Press
  into a greased 8 inch pie tin.  Cool.  Two tbsp of the mixture may be
  reserved and used as a garnish for the top of the pie.
  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%%  CRUMB PIE CRUST  %%%%%
  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% Suitable for cheese cake or cream
  fillings. 1-1/3 cups cookie or cake crumbs (suitable to your diet)
  1/4 soft butter or milk free margarine 1 tbsp sugar or sugar
  substitute Mix the crumbs, margarine and sugar together. Press into a
  9 inch pie pan, saving some crumbs for garnish.
  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% CORNFLAKE PIE CRUST %%%%%
  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 1 cup cornflake crumbs 1 tbsp sugar
  2 tbsp melted milk free margarine Toss the cornflake crumbs, sugar and
  margarine until crumbs are thoroughly coated. Press the mixture
  evenly and firmly into the bottom and sides of an 8 inch pie pan.
  Bake for 8 minutes at 375F. Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gluten Free Bread for those with Allergies
 Categories: Allergy, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  + 1 tbsp wheat starch flour
      1 tb Sugar (optional)
        ds Of salt
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter
      1 c  Warm milk
      2 ea Egg whites
 
  Sift dry ingredients into a bowl, rub in the margarine with pastry
  blender until it looks mealy.  Mix in the warm milk to make a batter
  consistency. Add beaten egg whites (not to stiff).  Mix lightly and
  pour into greased loaf pan.  Bake at 450F for about 10 minutes, then
  reduce temperature to 300F for a further 30 minutes. Origin: The
  Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggless Mayonnaise for those with Allergies
 Categories: Allergy, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 ts Granulated sugar (optional)
        ds Cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  Powdered skim milk
      2 tb Ice water
    3/4 c  Salad oil
      3 tb Lemon juice
           OR
      2 tb Wine vinegar
 
  Place deep, medium sized bowl and electric mixer beaters in
  refrigerator until thoroughly chilled. In chilled bowl, mix together
  salt, mustard, paprika, sugar, pepper, powdered milk and water. With
  electric mixer, on highest speed, add 2 tbsp oil, drop by drop.
  Continue to add oil, by 1/2 tsps with beater on until 2 tbsp have
  been added. While continually beating, add the remaining oil by the
  teaspoonful. Slowly beat in the lemon juice or vinegar.  Continue to
  beat until mayonnaise is thick and smooth. Store in warmest part of
  the refrigerator. VARIATION: For Russian dressing beat in 1/4 cup
  chili sauce into one cup of the eggless mayonnaise. If you wish, an
  even sharper flavour, add, in addition to the chili sauce, 1 tbsp
  each of finely minced onion and some green pepper. Origin: The
  Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yogurt Cheese Pie with Oat Pie Crust
 Categories: Allergy, Pie/tart, Cheese/eggs, Syrups
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      8 ea Ounces soft cream cheese
    2/3 c  Yogurt
      1 tb Honey
      1 ts Vanilla
      6 ea Dates, chopped
 
  Beat together the cream cheese, yogurt, honey and vanilla until very
  smooth.  Stir in dates and pour into a prepared 9 inch pie shell.
  Refrigerate several hours. Goes well with Oat pie crust.
  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% %%%%% OAT PIE CRUST %%%%%
  %%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 1/2 cups rolled oats 1/2 cup pitted dates
  2 tbsp safflower oil Place the oats and the pitted dates through a
  fine blade of a food grinder. Mix together with the oil and press
  into an 8 inch pie pan to make a pie shell. Origin: The Allergy
  Cookbook Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Wafers
 Categories: Allergy, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Shortening
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Rice flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Water, approx
 
  Cream the shortening and the sugar.  Add vanilla.  Sift together the
  rice flour, salt and baking powder.  Stir into the shortening mixture,
  alternately with water, adding just enough water to make a thick
  dough. Roll thinly on a board dusted with rice flour.  Cut into
  desired shapes and place on greased cookie sheet.  Bake at 325F until
  faintly brown, about 10 minutes. Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared
  by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Seed Milk
 Categories: Allergy, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sesame seeds
 
  Whiz the water and sesame seeds in a blender for about 2 minutes.
  Strain if desired.  Drink can be flavored with molasses, banana,
  carob powder, honey, fruit concentrate, dates or raisins. This drink
  can also be prepared with 2 cups water and 4 tbsp tahini (Tahini is a
  sesame paste that is available in most health food stores) Origin:
  The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homemade Soy Sauce for those with Allergies
 Categories: Allergy, Salsa/sauce, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Soy sauce contains gluten
           -and wheat.  Ingredients
           -include protein
           Extracts from corn and soy
           -beans, wheat, parts of
           -corn and cane, water
           And salt.
 
  If anyone wants to experiment with a homemade soy sauce the
  ingredients are salt, hot water, molasses or caramel. The flavor
  changes with the heat of the water; experiment until you find the
  right combination of ingredients. It won't be real soy sauce but it
  makes a good substitute. This should be used in our recipes calling
  for soy sauce that are marked wheat and gluten free. VARIATION: Soy
  sauce substitute can be made by taking 2 beef bouillon cubes and
  dissolving them in boiling water - 1/8th cup or less.  The more
  concentrated the tastier it is.  Use on chow mein or other Chinese
  style dishes.  GOOD!! Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens, July/95.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SALMON SALAD WITH YOGURT-SESAME DRESSING
 Categories: Salads, Fish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 oz Canned pink salmon; drained
  1 1/3    Green onion; chopped
  1 1/3    Celery stalk; diced
  1 1/3 c  Bean sprouts
      1 tb Fresh cilantro; chopped
    1/3 c  Fresh mint leaves; chopped
    1/3 c  Or fresh parsley
      4    Tomatoes
      4    Leaf lettuce leaves
  1 1/3 tb Sesame seeds; toasted*

MMMMM-------------------YOGURT SESAME DRESSING------------------------
  2 2/3 tb Yogurt
  1 1/3 tb Mayonnaise
      3 ts Sesame oil
      3 ts Lemon juice
 
  *Toast sesame seeds in small skillet over high heat, stirring for 2
  minutes or until golden.
  
  Combine salmon, green onion, celery, bean sprouts, cilantro and mint
  or parsley.  In small bowl, combine yogurt, mayonnaise, sesame oil
  and lemon juice; pour over salmon mixture and mix lightly.
  
  Quarter tomatoes, cutting almost through; place on lettuce; lined
  plates; spoon salmon mixture in center.  Sprinkle with sesame seeds.
  
  From the Collection of Candis Compton.
  Submitted By CANDIS COMPTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Colada Punch - Non-alcoholic
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 5 cups
 
  8 1/2 oz Cream of Coconut
      3 c  Pineapple juice; chilled
     12 oz Ginger ale; chilled
 
  =========================== > Directions < ==========================
  
  In a 1 1/2 quart non-metal pitcher or punch bowl, mix together cream
  of coconut and pineapple juice. Just before serving, add ginger ale,
  stirring gently.
  
  =========================> Notes and Credits <========================
  
  Source: JoAnne Shuman's recipe in the San Jose Mercury 4/13/94
  [shared by Dorothy Hair Davis 4/94]
  Submitted By CANDIS COMPTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THREE CHEESE RANCH TORTELLINI SALAD
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    225 g  Tortellini; cheese filled
           --refrigerated
      1 sm Broccoli head; cut in flower
           --ettes
      2    Carrots; thinly sliced
     15    Cherry tomatoes; halved
    2/3 c  Kraft Three Cheese Ranch
           Dressing
 
  Cook tortellini according to package directions.  Rinse in cold water.
  Drain.
  
  Steam carrots and broccoli 1 to 2 minutes; toss with pasta, tomatoes
  and dressing.  Refrigerate until serving time.
  
  Preparation time:  20 minutes
  
  Origin:  Kraft & Overwaitea
  
  From the Collection of Candis Compton
  Submitted By CANDIS COMPTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ICED APPLE-MINT TEA
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Water
      2    Tea bags
    1/2 c  Fresh mint; chopped
      1    Lemon peel strip 2" x 1/2"
      2 c  Apple juice or cider;
           --unsweetened
      1 tb Lemon juice
      4    Mint sprigs (optional)
 
  In a medium-size saucepan, bring the water to a boil over moderately
  high heat - about 3 minutes.  Pour the boiling water into a warmed
  teapot and add the tea bags, mint and lemon peel; cover and steep
  until cool - about 20 minutes.  Remove and discard the tea bags.
  
  Strain the tea into a 2-quart pitcher and stir in the apple juice and
  lemon juice.  Fill four 12-ounce glasses with ice cubes and divide
  the apple-mint tea among them. Stir briskly and garnish each drink
  with a mint sprig, if you like.
  
  Preparation time:  10 minutes
  
  Origin:  Reader's Digest Magazine, June, 1995
  
  From the Collection of Candis Compton
  Submitted By CANDIS COMPTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gargara Dakria
 Categories: Pie/tart, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------KLINGON ONION PIE--------------------------
      1 ea Piecrust; for 9" pie
    1/8 lb Bacon**
      2 ea Tb Margarine
  1 1/4 lb Spanish onions
           -coarsely chopped
      3 ea Eggs
      1 ea Pt Sour cream
           -salt and pepper
   1/16 ts Nutmeg
 
  **About a 1" cut right across a pound package of sliced bacon. Line a
  9" pie plate with the pie crust and flute the edges. Cut the bacon
  into small bits and fry it until it is lightly browned. Add the
  margarine, let it melt and then add the onion. Stirring often, fry
  the onion with the bacon until the onion is soft and golden. Remove
  from the heat and let cool while you mix the custard part. Put the
  eggs, sour cream, salt, pepper and nutmeg in a small bowl and beat
  together with a whisk or eggbeater. Spread the cooked onions and
  bacon in the pie plate. Pour the custard mixture over them. With a
  spoon, even the contents of the pie pan out, if necessary. Bake at
  375 for about 40 minutes, or until the custard is set and golden
  brown and the crust is also browned. Cut the pie into 6 to 8 wedges
  and serve hot. FROM: JOANNE FERRY   (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Epicure with Wild Rice - United States
 Categories: Game, Rice, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 ea Pheasant breasts-split
      8 ea Pheasant legs
           S pheasant drumsticks
    1/2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Sherry or Muscatel Wine
    1/4 ts Pepper
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 lb Butter
      2 c  Stock
      1 ea Onion-chopped
      1 ts Salt
      1 pt Sour cream
 
  Cut pheasant into serving pieces and split breasts.  Mix flour, salt
  and pepper. Dip meat in milk and then in flour and lay on paper
  towels. Melt three-fourths stick of butter in large skillet. Saute
  meat until brown on all sides, drain off excess fat and add stock.
  Simmer meat for one hour. Meanwhile, melt the remainder of the
  butter, cook onions in this until browned. Add the remaining flour
  you used for dredging, wine and onions. Cover and cook slowly until
  tend. Taste for seasoning. Just before serving, break down sour cream
  with a fork and add to meat. Reheat, to the boiling point. Place in a
  deep platter, pour sauce over meat and serve with the wild rice mold.
  
  WILD RICE MOLD
  
  Wash two cups of wild rice, soak overnight in warm water. To one
  quart of water add wild rice, a half cup of long grain rice and a
  teaspoon of salt. Bring to a boil and simmer, covered, until rice is
  done. Butter a large ring mold and pack rice tightly, set on stove to
  keep hot. Turn out on a chop plate and fill center of mold with
  sauteed mush- rooms.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Malaya Pheasant and Rice - Malaya
 Categories: Vegetables, Game, Asian, Chilies
      Yield: 3 servings
 
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Clean and truss a large pheasant and put it in a large kettle with one
  large red onion, two dried chili peppers seeded and crushed, one
  carrot and one fresh chili pepper seeded. Add cold water to cover and
  salt and pepper to taste. Bring the water to a boil, skim if
  necessary and simmer the pheasant until tender, do not overcook.
  Remove the pheasant from the broth, and disjoint it into twelve
  pieces and set aside. Strain the stock, measure three cups, if
  necessary add a little water. Return the liquid to the kettle, add
  one and a half cups of rice and cook for twenty minutes or until
  liquid has been absorbed. Soak a half teaspoon of dried saffron in a
  little hot water for five minutes then stir into rice. In a skillet,
  saute two finely chopped onions, two garlic cloves crushed and cook
  in a half cup of oil until golden brown. remove the vegetables, drain
  and stir them into the rice. Add the pheasant pieces to the oil
  remaining in the skillet and saute over high heat until they are
  crisp and golden brown on all sides. Add the pheasant to the rice and
  toss the mixture gently with a fork.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Drunk Pheasant - Japan
 Categories: Game, Japanese, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS, THU 06---------------------
           Bone a small pheasant and
           -cut the meat into 3/4 inch
           -squares. Marinate in 3/4 c
           -of Sake blended with one
           -and a half tbs soy sauce
           -for eight hours.
           In a large skillet,
           -saute two green peppers
           -seeded and ribs removed
           -and one onion all ccut
           -into half inch squares
           -in two tbs oil until
           -they are tender but not
           -brown. Add the pheasant,
           -drained, and saute
           -quickly until it is just
           -cooked through. Stir in
           -two tbs soy sauce and
           -serve the dish at once.
 
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Texas Tuna Burgers
 Categories: Seafood, Breakfast, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -JUDY LAUSCH DGSV43A
     11 oz Tuna; drained,flaked
    2/3 c  Non-fat dry milk powder
     12    Saltines; crushed
    1/2 c  Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Green chili peppers; chpd.
      1    Egg; beaten
  1 1/2 ts Oil; vegetable
      2 c  Tomatoes; crushed
      1 ts Chili powder
      2 oz Monterrey Jack cheese;
           -shredded
 
  In medium bowl combine tuna, milk powder, cracker crumbs, onion, chili
  peppers, and egg; mix well and form into 8 equal burgers. In 12 in.
  skillet heat oil over medium heat; add tuna burgers and cook, turning
  once, until lightly bowned, 2-4 minutes on each side. In measuring
  cup or small bowlcombine tomatoes and chili powder and pour over
  burgers. Cover pan, reduce heat to low, and let simmer until sauce is
  thoroughly heated, about 5 minutes. Transfer burgers and sauce to
  flameproof platter and sprinkle with cheese. Broil or until cheese is
  melted and lightly browned, 1-2 minutes.  1 serving=391 calories.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Boat
 Categories: Meats, Cheese/eggs, Italian
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1    Loaf French Bread
      1 lb Ground beef
     15 oz Tomato sauce
      1 cn Mushrooms; sliced
      1    Onion; diced
      1 pk Mozzarella cheese slices
 
  Remove center of bread to make a boat shape. Brown ground beef; add
  sauce, mushrooms and onion. Simmer 2-3 minutes. Pour into bread and
  top with slices of cheese. Heat on baking sheet at 350~ for 10-15
  minutes or until the cheese melts. Slice to serve. Serves 5-6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Quiche
 Categories: Meats, Casseroles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 md Onion; chopped
    1/2 lb Mushrooms; sliced
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Biscuit mix
           9" pastry shell
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Creamed cottage cheese
 
  Saute ground beef, onion, and 2/3's of the mushrooms in a skillet
  until the beef is well browned; drain off fat. Add salt, pepper,
  worcestershire sauce, and biscuit mix to meat mixture; spread in
  pastry lined pan. Beat eggs lightly, add cottage cheese, and mix
  well. Pour over meat mixture, and garnish with remaining mushrooms.
  Bake in 375~ oven for 1/2 hour. Serve the quiche hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burger Bundles
 Categories: Casseroles, Meats
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Butter
      1 c  Dry herb seasoned stuffing
           - Mix
      1 lb Ground beef
      1    Can cream of mushroom soup
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Catsup
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  In small saucepan, melt butter in water; toss with stuffing mix until
  moistened. Set aside. Divide meat into 5 equal portions. On sheet of
  waxed paper, flatten each portion into a 6 inch circle. Place about 3
  T. stuffing mixture in center of each circle. Draw edges up to meet
  in the center and seal, making a completely sealed ball with stuffing
  in center. Place balls in ungreased casserole. Combine soup, catsup
  and worcestershire sauce and stir until smooth. Spoon sauce over
  meatballs. Bake, uncovered, at 350~F about 45 minutes, until meat is
  done and sauce is bubbling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burger Trittini
 Categories: Meats, Italian, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
      1 md Onion; minced
     15 oz Tomato sauce
     12 oz Tomato paste
  4 1/2 oz Sliced mushrooms; drained
      2 ts Basil
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Oregano leaves
    1/2 ts Pepper
     20 oz Frozen spinach; thawed
     16 oz Cottage cheese
      8 oz Mozzarella; shredded
 
  Cook ground beef and onion on medium high until brown. Drain fat. Add
  next seven ingredients; heat to boiling. Reduce heat. Simmer,
  uncovered, until thickened. squeeze liquid from spinach. Combine with
  cottage cheese. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Spoon meat
  mixture into 13x9" baking dish. Sprinkle 1/2 of mozzarella cheese.
  Top with spinach. Sprinkle remaining mozzarella on top. Bake at 350~
  for 25-30 minutes until hot and bubbly.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Velveeta Hamburger & Noodle Casserole
 Categories: Meats, Casseroles, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Noodles; dry
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 sm Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Milk
           Salt & pepper as desired
    1/2 c  Velveeta cheese; cut up
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
 
  Cook noodles al dente. Brown ground beef and onion. Drain grease. Mix
  together with noodles. Add the rest of the ingredients. Cheese may be
  mixed in or sprinkled on top. Bake 1 hour at 350~.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burger Surprise
 Categories: Can/preserv, Meats, Sandwich
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
           Lean ground beef
           Rehydrated sun-dried tomato
           -halves
        sl Fontina cheese
           Worcestershire sauce
 
  Form beef into patties around a couple of tomato halvees and a slice
  of cheese. Season with Worcestershire sauce. Broil or grill. Source:
  Sonoma Sun-dried Tomatoes (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Spinach Casserole
 Categories: Meats, Casseroles, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 oz Spinach; frozen, chopped
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      3 tb Milk
      3 tb Onion; minced
      4 oz Wide noodles
      1 lb Ground beef
     15 oz Tomato sauce
      2 ts Sugar
           Garlic powder to taste
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Cheddar cheese; shredded *
 
  * enough shredded cheese to cover top of casserole
  *******************************************************
  **************** Cook and drain spinach. Mix cream cheese, sour
  cream, milk and onion in separate bowl and let set to soften. Cook
  noodles in boiling water for 10 minutes. Drain. Brown beef and drain
  well. Add tomato sauce, sugar, garlic powder, salt, pepper and
  noodles. Heat through. In 2 quart casserole, place a layer of the
  meat-noodle mixture (use 1/2). Top with 1/2 of the cream cheese
  mixture. Top with all of spinach and finish with remainder of
  meat-noodles. Cover and bake at 350~ for 40 minutes. Remove from oven
  and top with remaining cream cheese mixture. Cover completely with
  cheddar. Return to oven UNcovered until cheese melts completely,
  about 5-10 minutes. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Stroganoff II
 Categories: Meats, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1    Onion; chopped
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Garlic salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Noodles; cooked, hot
      4 oz Mushrooms; sliced
 
  In a large skillet, cook ground beef and onions. Stir in flour, salt,
  garlic salt and pepper. Add mushrooms. Cook for 5 minutes, stirring
  constantly. Remove from heat. Stir in soup, simmer uncovered for 10
  minutes. Stir in sour cream and heat through. Serve over noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Cheese Bake
 Categories: Casseroles, Pasta, Meats, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Onion; chopped
     16 oz Tomato sauce
      1 ts Sugar
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Garlic salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 c  Medium noodles; uncooked
      1 c  Cream style cottage cheese
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
    1/4 c  Sour cream
    1/3 c  Green onion; sliced
    1/4 c  Green pepper; chopped
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
 
  In large skillet, cook meat and onion till meat is lightly browned and
  onion is tender., Stir in tomato sauce, sugar, salt, garlic salt and
  pepper. Remove from heat. Meanwhile, cook noodles according to package
  directions, drain. Combine cottage cheese, cream cheese, sour cream,
  green onion and green pepper. Spread half the noodles in a 11x7"
  baking pan, top with a little of the meat mixture. Cover with cheese
  mixture. Add remaining noodles and meat sauce. Sprinkle with parmesan
  cheese. Bake at 350~ for 30 minutes. Makes 8-10 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burgandy Burgers
 Categories: Meats, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/3 c  Burgandy wine
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      1 tb Worchestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Garlic salt
 
  Mix all ingredients. Shape into 6 patties, about 3/4 inch thick. Grill
  patties, turning once, to desired doneness, 10 - 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Burgers
 Categories: Meats, Fruit, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
      3 tb Italian dressing
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
     15 oz Pineapple slices; drained
      8    Slices bacon
    3/4 c  Barbecue sauce
    1/4 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
    1/4 c  Honey
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Mix ground beef and Italian dressing, salt and pepper. Shape into 8
  patties. Press pineapple slice into each pattie. Wrap with a slice of
  bacon and secure with wooden toothpick. Mix remaining ingredients.
  Place patties in glass 13 x 9 dish. Pour barbecue sauce mix on
  patties. Cover and refrigerate for 2 hours. Grill patties, pineapple
  side down, about 10 minutes. Turn, brush with sauce. Grill another 10
  minutes. Heat remaining sauce to serve with burgers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: JOEY'S GRILLED HAMBURGER SUPREME
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground Round
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Cajun Power Garlic Sauce
      1 tb Worcestershire Sauce
    1/2 ts Black Pepper
      4 tb Italian Bread Crumbs
      1 ts Old Bay Seasoning
      1 cn Mushrooms
      4 tb BUTTER
    1/2 ts Onion Powder
 
  Saute mushrooms in 1/2 stick of butter. Mix ground beef with spices
  thoroughly. Fashion into thin patties (1/4"); 5 inches in diameter as
  they will shrink and get "thicker" after grilling. Grill until
  desired doneness. Garnish with mushrooms, tomatoes, SHARP cheddar
  cheese and lettuce. Serve on an Onion roll. Purple onion slices are
  optional for those who enjoy that sweet onion. Hamburgers tend to get
  a little boring but this will change your mind about the traditional
  burger. NOTE: This is not a "HOT" burger, so stay with the spices. It
  is a little extra trouble with all the ingredients but it is relished
  by my family. Hope yours enjoy it too. Joey Aguzin in New Awlins.
  DSVN60B
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burger-Stuffed Tomatoes w/the Works
 Categories: Meats, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      4 md Fresh Tomatoes
      8 oz Ground lean beef
      2 tb Ketchup
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      1 tb Sweet pickle relish (opt)
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 sl American process cheese;
           -quarter
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Cut a 1/4" thick slice from bottom of each
  tomato; reserve slices. Using a small spoon scoop out pulp from
  tomatoes, leaving 1/4" thick shells; set aside. Coarsely chop pulp
  and four reserved slices; set aside. In a medium non-stick skillet
  over medium heat cook beef, stirring frequently until brown, 4 to 5
  minutes. Add ketchup, mustard, relish, salt and reserved tomato pulp.
  Cook, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until mixture has thickened,
  8 to 10 minutes. Spoon meat mixture into reserved tomato shells; top
  each with 2 pieces of cheese. On a shallow baking sheet place stuffed
  tomatoes; bake until heated through and cheese is melted, about 10
  minutes. Source: Times-Picayune (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream Burgers ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Dairy Sour Cream
      1 tb Sliced Green Onion
      2 ts Fine Dry Bread Crumbs
    1/8 ts Salt
           Dash Pepper
    1/4 lb Lean Ground Beef
      1    Hamburger Bun *
           Lettuce Leaves
      1    Thin Slice Tomato
           Dairy Sour Cream (Opt.)
 
  *    Hamburger bun should be split, toasted and buttered.
  
  Stir together 2 T sour cream, green onion, bread crumbs, salt and
  freshly ground pepper.  Add ground beef; mix well.  Shape the ground
  beef mixture into one 3/4-inch thick patty.  Place the patty in a
  small baking dish. Loosely cover with clear plastic wrap or waxed
  paper. Micro-cook, loosely covered, on 100% power for 1 1/2 to 2
  minutes. Turn patty over; rotate the baking dish a half turn.
  Micro-cook, loosely covered, on 100% power for another 1 1/2 to 2
  minutes or until done. Drain off fat. Serve on toasted bun with
  lettuce and tomato. Dolop with additional sour cream, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BURGERS FLORENTINE
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Spinach,frozen chopped(10oz)
      4    English muffins,split
      1    White bread slice
      1 lb Ground beef
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Onion,grated
      1 pk Mozzarella cheese(4oz)
 
  1. Prepare spinach as label directs; drain well. Toast English
  muffins; keep warm.
  2. Preheat broiler if manufacturer directs. Into bowl, tear bread into
  small pieces; add spinach, ground beef, egg, salt, and onion; mix
  well. Shape mixture into four 1"-thick round patties. Place patties
  on rack in broiling pan.
  3. roil patties about 5 minutes on each side for medium or until of
  desired doneness. Just before patties are done, cut mozzarella cheese
  into 4 slices. Top each meat patty with a cheese slice; broil 1
  minute longer or until cheese melts.
  4. To serve, place a patty on bottom half of each muffin; replace top
  half of muffin.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PEPPY CHEESE FILLED HAMBURGERS
 Categories: Sandwich, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/4 c  Dry bread crumbs
      1    Small onion,finely chopped
      1    Egg
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper

MMMMM--------------------PEPPY CHEESE FILLING-------------------------
    1/4 c  Shredded American cheese
    1/4 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Prepared mustard
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Mix all ingredients except fillings. Shape mixture into 12 thin
  patties, about 3 1/2 inches in diameter. Top each of 6 patties with a
  filling, spreading to within 1/2 inch of edge. Cover with a remaining
  patty, seating edges firmly. Broil or grill patties 4 inches from
  heat, turning once, to desired doneness, about 10 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLUE CHEESE BURGUNDY BURGERS
 Categories: Sandwich, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/4 c  Burgundy or other red wine
      1    Small onion,finely chopped
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Seasoned salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Garlic salt
      6 tb Crumbled blue cheese
 
  Mix all ingredients except the cheese. Shape mixture into 12 thin
  patties, about 3 1/2 inches in diameter. Place 1 tablespoon blue
  cheese on top of each of 6 patties. Top with a remaining patty,
  sealing edges firmly. Broil or grill patties 4 inches from heat,
  turning once, to desired doneness, 10 to 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato/Cheese/Basil Burger
 Categories: Can/preserv, Sandwich, Meats, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1    Hamburger; made to your
           -liking
      1    Bun
      1 oz Slice Mozzarella
      2    Oil-pk dried tomatoes
           Fresh basil leaves
 
  2 minutes before burger is done, top with cheese. Cook just until
  cheese starts to melt, then top with tomato and basil. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TURKEY AND MUSHROOM BURGERS (FBFJ97A)
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Poultry, Vegetables, Vegetarian, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Egg white; (about 2 tbsp)
    1/4 c  White wine; dry
    1/3 c  Soft french bread crumbs
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 lb Ground turkey (breast best)
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Shallots; finely chopped
      2 oz Mushrooms; finely chopped
    1/2 x  Cooking spray
 
       In medium size bowl, beat egg white and wine until blended. Stir
  in crumbs, salt, pepperm and shallots; then lightly mix in turkey and
  mushrooms.  Shape turkey mixture into 6 patties, each about 1/2 inch
  thick. Cook just like hamburgers either on the stovetop using
  non-stick spray on pan or on the grill (best!).
      Recipe originally posted by Jenee Tapert (xpkr42a) in the Healthy
  eating topic.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutty Bean-Rice Burgers
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Sliced green onion
    1/4 c  Finely diced celery
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 c  Cooked soy or other -
           -dry beans, mashed chopped
      1 c  Cooked brown rice
      1 c  Sunflower seeds -- ground
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
    1/4 c  Whole wheat flour
      2 ts Sweet pickle relish
      2 tb Catsup
      2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Dried basil leaves
           -crumbled
      2    Eggs - slightly beaten
    1/8 ts Black pepper
           Salt to taste
 
  Saute onions and celery in 1 Tbsp. of the butter for 2 to 3 minutes.
  Add to beans, rice, sunflower seeds, cheese, flour, pickle relish,
  catsup, soy sauce, basil, eggs, and black pepper. Mix well. Add salt
  to taste. Shape into 8 patties about 1/2" thick. Heat remaining
  butter in a large skillet. Add patties.Cook slowly, turning once,
  until well browned, about 15 minutes. Transfer to serving platter.
  Garnish with onion rings, and pickle slices. Serve with chili sauce,
  if desired. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: OVO: Veggie Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2    Chopped Onion
    1/2 c  Cooked Green lentils
    1/3 c  Cooked peas
      1    Grated Carrot
      1 tb Chopped Fresh Parsely
      1 ts Tamari
      2 c  Breadcrumbs
    1/4 c  Flour
      1    Beaten Egg
 
  Saute the onion until soft Mix all ingrediants except the flour and
  leave to cool Form the mixture into patties and brown in skillet
  
  This came from _New Recipes for Young Vegetarians_ by Sammy Green
  Lentils take about one hour to cook from dry, but they freeze well,
  so make a big bunch of them at once.  This recipe came out kind of
  crumbly, but that might have been a fluke, as this was the first time
  I'd made it. :)
  
  For Vegan, the _Moosewood Cookbook_ by Mollie Katzen has a
  "Lentil-Walnut Burger" recipe on page 147
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean and Rice Burgers
 Categories: Vegetables, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Cooked brown rice
  1 1/2 c  Cooked beans -- pink,
           -kidney, navy,
    1/2 c  Wheat flour (or white)
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      1 md Onion -- diced
      1    Clove garlic -- mashed
      1 tb Spike or seasoning salt

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
      1 c  Cooked mashed potatoes
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 c  Bran
    1/2 c  Cracked wheat
      1 sm Pepper -- diced
      1    Grated carrot
 
  Heat greased (I use cooking spray) grill or electric frypan on med
  heat. ***Or, you can grease a 13"x9" glass baking pan and bake at
  350* for 30 Min. Just spread mix in pan and cook uncovered. Use a
  pancake turner to cut and remove cooked 'burger'.*** Mash beans. Add
  all ingredients and mix well. (If you use all of the ingredients
  listed your mix may be a bit dry. You might want to add a 1/4 to 1/2
  cup of soy, nut, or rice milk. Of coarse you also could use whole
  milk. Be sure you don't thin it too much or it will be mushy. Look
  for a 'hamburger' consistency.) Spoon about 2 heaping Tablespoons of
  mix onto grill or frypan for each burger and flatten with greased
  pancake turner. Turn several times rather than just once on each side
  like conventional burgers, they have a better texture that way.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bulgar Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      4 c  Water
      2 c  Bulghur
      2 tb Oil
      1    Onion -- diced
      2    Beets -- grated
      2    Carrots -- diced
    1/2    Head cabbage -- chopped fine
      3 tb Tamari
      1 ts Garlic powder
 
  In a large pot, heat the water to a boil. Add the bulghur, reduce
  heat, and cook for 20 minutes, until the bulghur is soft anf the
  water is absorbed. Set aside. Preheat oven to 350. Heat the oil in a
  large skillet, over medium-high heat; add the onions and saute for 3
  minutes. Add the beets, carrots and cabbage, and saute for 7 minutes
  more. Add the seasonings. Remove from heat and combine with the
  bulghur. Shape the batter into burgers to fit buns. Place on oiled
  cookie sheet, and bake for 20 minutes; turn over and bake for 29
  minutes more.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lisa's Hamburger Soup *** (tspn00b)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground chuck
      1    Med. onion; chopped
      2 tb Butter
      6    Peppercorns
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 tb Salt
      1    Bay leaf
      1    Lg. can chopped tomatoes
      4    Celery tops; chopped
      6    Sprigs parsley
      4    Carrots; sliced
      2 cn Beef consomme
      3    Lg. cans of water
 
  Melt the butter.  Add the onions and cook till translucent then add
  ground chuck and continue to cook till browned. Add remaining
  ingredients and simmer 45 minutes. Then all ya "KNEAD" to go with it
  is a piping hot loaf of bread from the B/M!! Eat Hardy Lisa/Cedar
  Rapids FROM: LISA CRAWLEY (TSPN00B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Hamburger Soup ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Soup/stew, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Small Carrot, Thin Slice
      1 tb Chopped Onion
      1 tb Water
    1/4 lb Lean Ground Beef
    1/2 c  Tomato Sauce
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Dry Red Wine
    1/4 ts Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
           Dash Garlic Powder
           Dash Pepper
      1 tb Shredded Cheddar Cheese
 
  In a 20-ounce casserole micro-cook thinly sliced carrot, chopped
  onion and 1 T water, covered, on 100% power for 1 1/2 minutes.  Stir
  the ground beef into the partially cooked vegetables.  Micro-cook,
  uncovered, on 100% power for 2 minutes, stirring once to break up the
  meat. Drain off fat. Stir in Tomato sauce, 1/4 cup water, dry red
  wine, sugar, salt, garlic powder, and pepper.  Micro-cook, uncovered
  on 100% power for 2 to 3 minutes more or till mixture is heated
  through and vegetables are tender. Sprinkle with shredded cheddar
  cheese and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Burger Cake (1 of 3)
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Kids
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk (16-oz) golden pound cake
           -mix
    2/3 c  Water
      2    Eggs
      1 tb Sesame seeds
      2 tb Cocoa
      2 tb Strawberry preserves

MMMMM----------------------PENUCHE FROSTING---------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Brown sugar; (packed)
    1/4 c  Milk
      2 c  Powdered sugar
 
  See directions in part 2 of this recipe set. Source: Betty Crocker
  Cookbook for Boys & Girls
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Burger Cake (2 of 3)
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Kids
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -CYGNUS, HCPM52C
           -DIRECTIONS, PART 1:
 
   1. Heat oven to 300 degrees; Generously grease 1-1/2 qt. glass
  casserole with shortening, using pastry brush. Sprinkle a little
  flour into the casserole and shake gently from side to side until the
  flour coats the bottom and sides.  Empty out remaining flour.
   2. Prepare the cake mix as directed on package execpt--after mixing
  pour the batter into the greased and floured casserole.
   3. Bake in 300-degree oven 1 hour and 5 to 10 minutes or until
  wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool the cake on rack
  10 minutes then remove from the casserole to plate. Place the cake
  rounded side up.
   4. While the cake is cooling, sprinkle sesame seeds on ungreased
  cookie sheet.  Bake in 300-degree oven about 5 minutes or until
  golden. (You'll use the seeds later to sprinkle over yoru cake.) 5.
  Fill baking pan about 1/2 of the way to the top with cold water and
  ice cubes. Melt butter in saucepan over low heat. Stir in brown
  sugar. Cook over low heat 2 minutes stirring occasionally.  Stir in
  milk . Heat to rolling boil, stirring constantly.
   6. Remove from heat and set the saucepan in the pan of cold water
  and ice. When you can comfortably hold your hand on the bottom of the
  saucepan, gradually stair in powdered sugar.
   7. Place the saucepan back in the pan of ice water and beat the sugar
  mixture until it becomes thick enough to spread. If the frosting is
  too thin, sugar; If it is too thick, add a few drops of hot water.
   8.  After the cake is cool, you are going to cut into 3 parts--1 for
  the top of the bun, 1 for the hamburger, and one for the bottom of
  the bun. To do this, mark the cake for easier cutting by sticking
  wooden stick in the cake to guide your knife.  Place 1 row of wooden
  picks (about 2" apart) 1 inch from the bottom of the cake and another
  row 2 inches from the bottom.
   9. Using the wooden picks as the gude, slice off the top of the cake
  with serrated knife.  This is easier if your eyes are at the same
  level as the cake.  So bend down or put the cake ona high counter.
  Lift off the top and set aside.  Cut off the next layer and set aside.
   10. Frost the bottom layer with spatula.
  
   Source: Betty Crocker's CookBook for Boys & Girls
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Burger Cake (3 of 3)
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Kids
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -CYGNUS, HCPM52C
           -DIRECTIONS, PART 2:
 
   11. Measure 1/3 cup of the remaining frosting into bowl and stir in
  cocoa. If the frosting seems stiff, adda teaspoon water. Place the
  middle (hamburger) layer on top of the bottom layer. Frost the middle
  layer with the cocoa-flavored frosting.
   12. Place the top (rounded) layer on top of the midle layer. Frost
  with remaining frosting.
   13. Drizzle strawberry preserves  around the side of the middle
  layer to look like catsup.
   14. Sprinkle the top of the cake with the toasted sesame seeds.
  
   Source: Betty Crocker's CookBook for Boys & Girls
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VIETNAMESE CHICKEN SALAD WITH HOT TAHINI SAUCE
 Categories: Vietnamese, Poultry, Salads, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 x  - Bonnie Bracey   GRWP92A
      2 x  Chicken breasts, whole
      8 x  Green onions; julienned
      5 c  Bok choy; shredded
      2 tb Peanuts

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Tahini
  1 1/2 tb Chinese Hot Oil
      3 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Sugar
           -    skin removed
      1 sm Carrot; julienned
      1    Garlic clove; minced
 
     Cook the chicken.  Cool and cut into thin strips. Cut onions and
  carrot into thin julienned strips.  Mix chicken, onions, carrots and
  bok choy. Sprinkle peanuts on top.
     For the dressing, beat tea into tahini in a small bowl then mix in
  all the remaining dressing ingredients.
     Serve salad with the dressing on the side. Dressing is very spicy.
  ^^^^^^^^^^
     This is a wonderful spicy dressing and it is best served on the
  side so that diners can adjust the heat level to their own preference.
   Source: ORIGIN UNKNOWN - From Bonnie Bracey's Database
     Downloaded from *P  10/18/1992
     Formatted for M-M  12/13/1992  by  Joe  JPMD44A Comiskey
  :       12/25/92        10:15 PM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SMOKED CHICKEN SALAD WITH TROPICAL FRUITS
 Categories: Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Walnut oil
  2 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Seasoned rice vinegar
      1 tb Orange juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Dijon mustard

MMMMM---------------------------ONIONS--------------------------------
      2    Knob onions or small leeks
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
           Vegetable oil for frying

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      1    Whole smoked chicken
     12 c  Mixed greens
      2 tb Fresh cilantro or parsley;
           - minced
    1/2 c  Cantaloupe; peeled, diced
    1/2 c  Papaya; peeled, diced
      3 tb Toasted chopped walnuts
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Preparation time: 35 minutes.  Cooking time: 5 minutes. 1. For
  dressing, combine all ingredients in a jar with a tight-fitting lid.
  Shake well before using. 2. For onions, trim coarse green tops; cut
  bulbs into julienne strips. Combine in a plastic bag with flour,
  ginger and salt; shake to coat.  3. Heat 1 inch of vegetable oil in a
  heavy saucepan. When hot, add onions; fry until crisp and light
  brown, about 1 minute. Drain on paper towels.  Hold for up to 2 hours
  at room temperature. 4. For salad, remove meat from chicken,
  discarding skin, fat and bones. Arrange ingredients on greens, top
  with dressing and onions. From the Chicago Tribune.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Springtime Chicken Salad *** nfxs18b
 Categories: Poultry, Salads, Vegetables, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 x  Chicken breast halves
      1 lb Fresh asparagus
           Head iceberg lettuce
           Lemon slices for garnish

MMMMM--------------------LEMON-HERB DRESSING-------------------------
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 x  Sm clove garlic, pressed
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Slivered toasted almonds
 
  VARIATION: 1lb of boneless chicken breasts can be poached with 1/4 c
  lemon juice and water or broth to cover in a 9-in skillet. Place over
  med heat. Bring to a boil slowly. Reduce heat. Simmer for 1 min.
  Remove from heat. Cover. Let stand 20 mins. Remove chicken, pat dry
  and shred. PREPARATION: Place chicken in a saucepan. Cover with
  water. Simmer for 20 min. until done. Remove. Cool. Wash asparagus.
  Snap off stalks at the point of tenderness. Partially fill a large
  skillet with water. Bring to boil. Add asparagus. Cover and heat
  until water comes back to a boil. Uncover. Boil slowly for 4-5 mins
  until spears bend a little when lifted. Drain. Cool. With a knife,
  shred half of the lettuce. Place in a large salad bowl. combine the
  dressing ingredients. Shake until blended. Drizzle half of the
  dressing over the lettuce. Shred the chicken. Slice the asparagus
  into 2-in diagonal pieces. Combine with the lettuce. Drizzle with
  remaining dressing. Garnish with lemon slices. Serve, sprinkled with
  almonds, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Chicken Salad *** nfxs18b
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Poultry, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground chicken
      2 tb Oil
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 c  Yellow onion chopped
  1 1/2 ts Seasoned salt
      1 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1    Sm head iceberg lettuce chop
    1/2 x  Avocado, diced
      2 x  Tomatoes, diced
    1/2 c  Green onions chopped
    1/3 c  Sliced olives
    3/4 c  Grated cheddar cheese
    3/4 c  Grated jack cheese

MMMMM-----------------------SALAD DRESSING----------------------------
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Tomato sauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  Saute chicken in oil with garlic, onion, salt, paprika, pepper and
  worcestershire sauce for about 10 mins. Cool completely. Toss lettuce
  with avocado, tomatoes, green onions, olives and cheeses. Mix with
  cooked and cooled chicken. For dressing, whisk together vinegar, oil,
  tomato sauce, lemon juice, garlic, salt, pepper, paprika and sugar.
  Pour dressing over salad. Toss. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN SALAD (XXXJ77A)
 Categories: Salads, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Chicken; dice & boil
      3 tb Lemon Juice; fresh
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 ts Curry Powder
  1 1/2 c  Grapes; seedless
      1 c  Pineapple; tidbits drained
    1/2 c  Slivered Almonds; toasted
    1/4 c  Water Chestnuts; diced
 
  Toss chicken with lemon juice in large bowl. Cover and refrigerate 1
  hour. Combine next 4 ingredients in small bowl. Add remaining
  ingredients to chicken and toss lightly. Blend in mayonnaise mixture.
  This recipe comes from "COOKING WITH BON APPETIT SOUPS AND SALADS".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOT CHICKEN SALAD (DGSV43A)
 Categories: Salads, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Cooked chicken; diced
      1 c  Celery; diced
      1 c  Fresh mushrooms; sliced
      1 tb Onion; minced
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Rosemary; crushed
    1/4 ts Pepper
      8 oz Water chestnuts; drain,slice
      1 c  Rice; cooked
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup; undil
      3 tb Margarine
    1/2 c  Cornflake crumbs
    1/2 c  Almonds; slivered
 
  In a large bowl, combine chicken, celery, mushrooms, onions, lemon
  juice, spices, water chestnuts and rice. Blend mayonnaise and soup;
  toss with chicken mixture. Spoon into a 2 qt. casserole. In a
  skillet, melt butter and combine with the cornflakes and almonds.
  Cook until lightly browned. Top casserole with crumb mixture. Bake at
  350F for 30 minutes. One serving (of 6) = @ 270 calories. This is a
  recipe of Michelle Wise, Spring Mills, Penn., reformated and brought
  to you by Judy Lausch DGSV43A. A great luncheon dish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Pasta Chicken Salad *
 Categories: Salads, Pasta, Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     16 oz Garlic seasoned pasta accent
           - Green Giant frozen veggies
  1 1/2 c  Chicken; cooked, cubed
    1/4 c  Italian salad dressing
    1/3 c  Croutons
 
  Cook vegetables as directed on package till vegetables are
  crisp-tender. Cover; refrigerate about 1 hour. In large bowl, combine
  chicken, dressing, and pasta-vegetable mix; toss to coat. Garnish
  with croutons.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Chicken Salad With Mango Dressing *
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3    Chicken breast; whole
           - boneless
      1 c  Chicken broth
    3/4 c  Rice
      2    Mangoes
      3    Green onions; chopped
      3 tb French dressing

MMMMM-----------------------MANGO DRESSING----------------------------
      1    Mango
    1/2 c  Light cream
    1/4 c  Thousand island dressing
      1 tb Mint; chopped
      1 tb Mango chutney
 
  Place chicken stock in pan, add chicken; cover and bring to a boil,
  reduce heat and simmer 10 minutes or until chicken is tender; drain
  and cool. Add rice gradually to a large pan of boiling water. Boil
  rapidly, uncovered, for 10 minutes or until rice is tender; drain and
  cool. Cut mango into thin strips. Cut chicken into slices. Make
  dressing by combining all ingredients in a blender. Combine rice,
  onions and French dressing in a bowl. Place on plates; top with
  chicken and mango dressing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KEN'S CHINESE CHICKEN SALAD
 Categories: Salads, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Plain roasted chicken
           -(about 2 1/2 lb)
      8 oz Fresh bean sprouts
      2 md Cucumbers
      1    Carrots (or double amount)

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      3 tb Sesame paste
           -or peanut butter
      2 tb Finely chopped scallions
      2 ts Sesame oil
      2 tb Chinese white rice vinegar
           -=OR=- cider vinegar
      3 tb Light soy sauce
  1 1/2 tb Finely chopped garlic
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
    2/3 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Rice wine or dry sherry
 
  TRIM THE BEAN SPROUTS at both ends. Peel the cucumber, split it in
  half lengthwise and remove the seeds with a teaspoon. Finely shred
  the cucumber into 3-inch lengths. Peel and finely shred the carrots
  into 3-inch lengths. Set the vegetables aside. Take all the meat off
  the cooked chicken and shred it into fine strips using a sharp knife
  or cleaver. Arrange the chicken strips on a platter and surround them
  with the bean sprouts, cucumbers and carrots. Combine all the
  ingredients for the dressing and mix them thoroughly. (I find an
  electric blender is useful for this, but you could use a screw-top
  jar and shake everything in it well.) Pour the dressing all over the
  chicken and vegetables and mix well. Serve at once.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: QUICK CHINESE CHICKEN SALAD
 Categories: Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Skinless chicken breasts
      2 ts Salt

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1    Garlic clove; peeled
      1 sl Fresh ginger; peeled
      2    Scallions
           - with green tops trimmed
      2 ts Chili bean sauce
      2 ts Dark soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
      2 ts White rice vinegar
      2 ts Sesame paste
           -=OR=- peanut butter
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2 ts Sesame oil
    1/2 lb Iceberg lettuce
           - finely shredded

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 tb White rice vinegar
 
  REMOVE THE SKIN FROM THE CHICKEN BREASTS and place breasts in a pot.
  Put in enough cold water to cover the chicken, add the salt. Bring
  the mixture to a simmer, cook for 5 minutes. Turn off the heat and
  cover tightly. Let the chicken sit in the hot water for 10 minutes.
  While the chicken is sitting, combine the sauce mixture ingredients
  together in a blender and set aside. Toss the lettuce with the white
  rice vinegar and place on a platter. Remove the chicken and allow to
  cool. Pull off the meat, finely shred and toss with the sauce. Place
  the chicken with sauce on top of the lettuce and serve at once.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN SALAD SANDWICHES
 Categories: Poultry, Salads, Sandwich
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked diced chicken
    1/2 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Diced roasted sweet red
           -peppers
    1/2 c  Diced green pepper
    1/2 c  Diced mushrooms
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Mayonnaise and lemon juice
  
  Mix together chicken, celery, red and green peppers and mushrooms. Add
  enough mayonnaise and lemon juice to moisten and give good flavor.
  Use as a sandwich filling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Cajun Chicken Salad *
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Bbq/grill, Sausage, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM------------------------SPICED NUTS-----------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Ground red pepper
    1/2 c  Walnuts -OR- pecans; chopped

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
    1/2 lb Chicken breasts; boneless,
           - skinless
      1 ts Cajun seasoning
    1/2 lb Smoked Andouille sausage -OR
           - hot Italain sausage links
      6 c  Mixed salad greens; torn
    1/2 c  Red bell pepper; cut in
           - strips
      1 c  Honey-mustard dressing
 
   Melt butter in small skillet over medium heat. Stir in sugar and
  ground red pepper; blend well. Stir in nuts to coat. Cook and stir
  over medium heat 4-5 minutes or until nuts are lightly toasted.
  Remove from heat; cool completely.
   Heat grill. Sprinkle cajun seasoning over chicken. When ready to
  grill, place chicken breast and sausage on gas grill over medium heat
  or on charcoal grill 4-6" from medium coals. Cook 10-15 minutes or
  until chicken is tender and juices run clear, turning once. Cook
  sausage 15-20 minutes, turning frequently. Cut chicken into strips;
  cut sausage into 1/2" slices. Line 6 salad plates with greens and red
  bell pepper strips; arrange chicken and sausage on top. Sprinkle with
  spiced nuts. Serve with dressing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato and Chicken Salad
 Categories: Can/preserv, Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHc42A
      4 c  Chicken breast; cook, dice
      3 c  Celery; dice
      2 c  Green or red pepper; diced
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh chives; chopped or
      3 tb Dried
      1 c  Mayo
    1/4 c  Lime juice
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 c  Oil-pk tomaotes; chopped
 
  In a large mixing bowl, combine the chicken, celery, pepper, walnuts
  and chives. Add the mayo and lime juice and mix well. Season with
  salt and pepper (be generous with the pepper). Lightly mix in the
  tomatoes. To allow the flavors to blend, let the salad stand for 15
  to 30 minutes before serving. Source: Sun-Dried Tomatoes! (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VIETNAMESE CHICKEN SALAD (GOI-GA) VXPF81A
 Categories: Asian, Vietnamese, Salads, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Shredded head cabbage
      1    Bunch mint leaves
      1 lb Chicken breast, cooked
      1    Small onion, thinly sliced
      1    Sm. carrot
      1    Dressing:
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Oil
      2    Cloves garlic, mashed
    1/4 c  Rice vinegar or lime juice
      1    Chopped red chili to taste
 
  Wash and de-stem mint leaves. Cut carrot in matchsticks. Shred the
  cooked chicken meat. In a large bowl, combine chicken with vegetables
  and mint leaves. Mix dressing ingredients together well. Pour
  dressing over and let stand 10 minutes before serving. From Doreen
  Otsuka.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VIETNAMESE CHICKEN SALAD WITH TAHINI SAUCE
 Categories: Vietnamese, Salads, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           - Bonnie Bracey GRWP92A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2    Whole chicken breasts
           -skin removed
      6    To ten green onions
      1    Small carrot
      4    To six c shredded Bok Choy
      2    To three tbsps of peanuts
           DRESSING:
    1/4 c  Tahini
      1    To two T Chinese Hot Oil
      3 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Of Peanut Oil
      3 tb Of red wine vinegar
      2 ts Of sugar
      1    Garlic clove, minced
 
  This is a wonderful spicy dressing and it is served on the side so
  that diners can adjust the heat level to their own preference. Cook
  the chicken. Cool and cut into thin strips. Cut onions and carrot
  into thin strips. Mix chicken, onions, carrots and bok choy. Sprinkle
  peanuts on top.
  
  FOr the dressing, beat tea into tahini in a small bowl then mix in
  all the remaining dressing ingredients. Serve salad with the dressing
  on the side. Dressing is very spicy. Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED THAI CHICKEN SALAD
 Categories: Thai, Salads, Low cal/fat, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           O.Evans VPRJ01A
      6    Chk breast; boned & skinned
      8 c  Romaine lettuce; shredded
      1 bn Green onion; white part,
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Red onion; diced
    1/2 c  Cillantro; snipped
    1/2 c  Rice wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Extra virgin olive oil
  2 1/2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 tb Crushed red pepper flakes
 
  200 CALORIES. Preheat broiler and brush rack lightly with oil. Place
  chicken breasts on rack.  Broil 3 inches from heat source for 6-7
  minutes or until cooked through, turning breasts over after 4
  minutes. Meanwhile, combine lettuce, green onion, red onion and
  cilantro in large bowl; toss to mix well. To make dressing combine
  vinegar, olive oil, soy sauce and crushed red pepper and mix
  thoroghly. To serve, place greens on plates. Slice chicken and
  arrange on greens. Drizzled each serving with dressing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peachtree Street Chicken Salad *** nfxs18b
 Categories: Poultry, Dress/stuff, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 x  Chicken breasts
    1/2 c  Pecans
      2 x  Med peaches, ripe
      4 tb Mayonnaise
      2 tb Sour cream
      2 ts Lemon juice
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Brown sugar
 
  Place chicken in a saucepan, breast side down, in 1-1/2 in of water.
  Cover. Simmer for 20 mins until chicken is fork-tender. Cool. Cut
  into bite-size pieces. During this time, toast pecans at 350 for 10
  mins. Remove. Coarsely break up. Pare peaches, if desired. Cut into
  3/4in pieces. In a small bowl, combine the mayonnaise, sour cream,
  lemon juice, salt, pepper and brown sugar. Toss gently with the
  chicken, pecans and peaches. Serve on a green leaf lettuce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Chicken Salad Dressing II
 Categories: Chinese, Dress/stuff, Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Rice vinegar
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
           Sesame seeds
 
  Adjust amounts to fit your need.  Combine all.
  
  From Allison Jenkins in Honolulu to Laurie Martinez on Prodigy,
  09/23/92 @ 8:24 p.m.  Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Chicken Salad Dressing III
 Categories: Chinese, Dress/stuff, Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      3 tb Dry sherry
    1/2 ts Fresh ginger, grated
      3 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 c  ;Water
      2 tb Minced green onion
      3 tb Rice wine vinegar
      2 tb Hoisin sauce
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Sesame oil
 
  Combine and blend all ingredients.
  
  Martinez writes: "I also use this as a regular salad dressing.  It
  has a really good flavor."
  
  From Laurie Martinez in Lancaster, PA to Victoria Parducci on Prodigy,
  09/23/92 @ 8:23 p.m.  Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Chicken Salad Dressing I
 Categories: Chinese, Dress/stuff, Poultry, Salads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      1 c  Dark sesame oil
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar (heaping)
      1 c  Balsamic vinegar
      1 c  Soy sauce
      4    Green onions, finely chopped
      1 tb Lay Yu hot flavored oil
      4 tb Fresh garlic, chopped
 
  Combine all ingredients.
  
  Goldstein said this is a "great" chicken salad dressing.
  
  From Larry Goldstein to Victoria Parducci on Prodigy, 09/23/92 @ 8:22
  p.m. Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA CRUSTS
 Categories: Breadmaker
      Yield: 15 servings
 
           -VGWN37A
      1 pk Yeast
      3 c  Flour
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Put in machine make on dough cycle. take out and put on floured board
  cove for 10 to 15 minutes then roll out and put on pan or peel dusted
  with cornmeal. I then put a little olive oil on the dough where the
  sauce goes. then add any topping make sure hamberger and sausage are
  cooked and drained before placing on pizza. Bake 375 for 20 to 25
  minutes when cheese is melted and starting to turn brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: EXCELLENT PIZZA CRUST
 Categories: Breadmaker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -WFFD27A
    3/4 c  Water
      2 c  Bread flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Dry milk
      1 ts Yeast
 
  Place ingredients in BM. Set to DOUGH cycle. Remove Dough. Sprinkle
  cornmeal on 12" nonstick pan. Place dough in center. Sprinkle a small
  amount of water on top. Cover with a towel. Let rise 25 minutes in a
  warm place. Preheat oven to 475. Push dough to the edge of the pan,
  covering entire pan. Top with sauce and goodies. Bake on bottom rack
  11 to 13 minutes. Make sure crust is completely done (dark) in
  center. Notes from Gaye: An okay recipe, but nothing to write home
  about.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MAMA MIA PIZZA DOUGH
 Categories: Breadmaker, Italian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -LILIANNE ISAACS   (KSHD53B)
           -makes 2 12" pies
  1 1/2 ts Red Star yeast
  2 1/2 c  Bread flour; as much as 3 c
           *add as necessary to ball)
      2 ts Butter Buds
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
           -more for a stronger garlic
           -flavor
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Honey
      1 c  Warm beer
           -I zap room temp beer in mw
           -for a few secs)

MMMMM------------------DATA PER SLICE OF DOUGH-----------------------
    205 x  *Calories
      4 x  *Gm Protein
     30 x  *Gm Carbohydrates
        x  *Mg Cholesterol
        x  *Gm Fat

MMMMM-------------------------EXCHANGES------------------------------
      2 x  *Bread
 
   I finally found it and we are hooked. Thanks to my bread maker; we
  have no excuse for not having a great homemade pizza in no time. I
  hope you'll try it out and let me know how you like it. By the way,
  this doesn't make a Pizza Hut type of pan pizza dough, instead it is
  a hand-tossed type that is tender and not tough...delicious! Try it.
  Another note: I have a Welbilt 350.
  
  Put all ingredients in your bread maker on manual and let it do the
  work. I let it rise for a little longer after it finishes, but judge
  for yourself if it requires that. Divide into two 12" pies (I roll it
  out) Put on two cornmeal covered pans, prick with a fork, brush with
  oil, add toppings and preheat your oven to 500F. Let the pizzas rise
  for 15 minutes or so, then bake for 7 minutes. MMMama Mia!! I've
  gotten great recipes off this BB, so I thought I'd reciprocate! Hope
  you like it!!
                               Lilianne in Marietta, GA
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA PLEASURE BREAD FOR BREAD MACHINE
 Categories: Breadmaker
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------REGULAR LOAF-----------------------------
    3/4 c  Water
      2 c  White bread flour
      1 tb Dry milk
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Pepperoni, chopped
    1/4 c  Mozzarella, shredded
      2 ts Parmesan, grated
    1/4 c  Mushrooms, canned & drained
      2 tb Onion flakes
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Oregano
      1 ts Fast rise yeast  **OR**
      2 ts Active dry yeast

MMMMM-------------------------LARGE LOAF------------------------------
  1 1/3 c  Water
      3 c  White bread flour
      2 tb Dry milk
      2 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Pepperoni, chopped
    1/3 c  Mozzarella, shredded
      1 tb Parmesan, grated
    1/3 c  Mushrooms, canned & drained
    1/4 c  Onion flakes
    3/4 ts Garlic powder
    3/4 ts Oregano
  1 1/2 ts Fast rise yeast  **OR**
  2 1/2 ts Active dry yeast
 
  SUCCESS HINTS: Use stick pepperoni and dice into 1/4" chunks
  
  As with all cheese breads, loaf appearance will be unusual due to the
  moisture of the cheese -- a small price to pay for great taste!
  
  This bread can be made with the regular and rapid bake cycles.
  
  CALORIES: 211          PROTEIN: 16% CHOLESTEROL: 11.7mg
  CARBOHYDRATES: 53% SODIUM: 501mg          FAT: 31%
      From ELECTRIC BREAD, Innovative Cooking Enterprises, Inc.
      PO Box 240888, Anchorage, Alaska 99524-0888
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA PLEASURE BREAD
 Categories: Breadmaker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      2 c  Bread Flour
      1 tb Nonfat Dried Milk
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Applesauce
    1/3 c  Chopped pepperoni
    1/4 c  Shredded mozzerella
      2 ts Grated parmesan
    1/4 c  Canned drained mushrooms
      2 tb Onion flakes
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Oregano
 
        2 t Yeast
  
  1 POUND LOAF--- Marie Frainier *DGCP02C*
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TRADITIONAL PIZZA DOUGH
 Categories: Pizza, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-------------------------
  2 3/4 c  Bread flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Active dried yeast
      1 ts Sugar
    3/4 c  Warm water (about)
      1 tb Olive oil
 
  In a small bowl, combine yeast, sugar and 1/4 cup water; leave until
  frothy.  Add yeast liquid to flour with remaining water and oil. Mix
  to a soft dough; knead on a floured surface 10 minutes until smooth.
   Place in a greased bowl; cover with plastic wrap. Let rise in a warm
  place 45 minutes or until doubled in size. Punch down dough and knead
  briefly. Oil an 12-inch pizza pan. Place dough in center of pan;
  press out to edges with you knuckles.  Pinch up edges to make a rim.
  Use as directed in recipe. VARIATIONS: If perferred, bake in a 14" x
  10" jellyroll pan, or as 4 individual pizzas. Herb or Nut Pizza
  Dough: Knead 2 tablespoons chopped fresh herbs (or 1 tablespoon dried
  herbs) into the dough. If prefered, knead 1 ounce chopped walnuts
  into the dough. Whole-Wheat Pizza Dough: Use 2-1/4 cups whole-wheat
  flour and 1/4 cup wheat germ. Add extra water as required to form a
  soft dough. Cornmeal Pizza Dough: Use 2-1/1 cups bread flour and 1/3
  cup cornmeal. Source: The Pizza & Pasta Cookbook, Contributing
  authors: Sarah Bush and Lesley Mackley with more than 500 color
  illustrations
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIZZA
 Categories: Pizza, Breads, Fruit
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           CRUST:
  2 3/4 c  Flour
      1 pk Dry yeast
      3 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Butter
      1    Egg
           APPLE TOPPING:
      2 tb Butter
      2 lg Cooking apples
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
           CHEESE TOPPING:
      4 oz Cream cheese
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
           STREUSEL TOPPING:
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Soft butter
 
  Blend 1 1/2 cup flour, yeast, sugar and salt in a large mixing bowl.
  Heat water, milk and butter until very warm; add to flour mixture and
  beat three minutes.  By hand, stir in enough flour to make a soft
  dough. Cover and let rise 15 minutes.  Pat dough onto a large oiled
  pizza pan, forming a rim around the edge. Mix the cheese topping and
  spread it on, then apple topping over cheese(see directions below).
  Mix the streusel topping and sprinkle it over the top. Cover and let
  rise for 15 min. Bake at 375 d, 25-30 minutes. Serve warm or cold.
  APPLE TOPPING INSTRUCTIONS:
  
  Peel & slice apples.  Melt butter in skillet, add apples, sugar and
  flour, and cinnamon.  Simmer 15 minutes, then cool
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BABOLI PIZZA CRUST
 Categories: Breads, Pizza
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Yeast
    1/4 c  Water;warm
      6 tb Olive oil;+ extra for pan
      6 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt  (Optional)
  2 1/4 c  Water;warm

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPINGS-------------------------------
           SEA SALT;OR KOSHER SALT
           Pepper;ground
      4 tb Olive Oil
           Chopped Rosemary and Thyme
      2 tb Water
 
  Mix together first six ingredients and let rise 30 to 0 minutes.
  Divide dough into 3 parts and place in 3 olive-oiled pie pans. Dimple
  dough with fingers. Mix olive oil and water, brush tops with this
  mixture. Sprinkle on top: sea salt, pepper, rosemary and thyme. Let
  rise 50 to 60 mins. Bake at 350 degrees F. for 25 minutes. May dip in
  olive oil. Peggy also says if the herbs are dried to soak in water 10
  minutes and then pat dry with paper towels.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA BREAD
 Categories: Breadmaker
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -Posted by: Pegg
           -Seevers, GEnie
      1 pk Yeast
      1 ts Sugar
      3 c  Bread flour
    1/2 c  Sliced pepperoni
    1/2 c  Cooked sweet (I use hot)
           -Italian sausage
    1/2 c  Whole black olives
    1/4 c  Mozzarella cheese
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
      1    Egg
      1 c  Bottled pizza sauce
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Whole fennel seed
    1/4 ts Cracked black pepper
      1 ts Oregano (I use more)
      3 tb Hot water
      4    Cloves garlic, minced
 
   Put all ingredients in breadmachine & press "Start".
   Source: File 'Breads1.txt MM by Cathy Svitek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MRS. SUGARS PIZZA DOUGH
 Categories: Pizza, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 pk Dry yeast soaked in 1/4 cup
           -water
    2/3 c  Warm water
      2 c  Sifted flour
    3/4 ts Salt
 
  Mrs. Sugars Pizza Dough (Her last name was originally Italian for
  sugar)
  
  KNEAD mixture until smooth, elastic and satiny. Cover, let rise TWO
  hours, (I think the long rising was also one of her secrets, she
  insisted it must be two hours, no less)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: QUICK AND CRUNCHY PIZZA DOUGH
 Categories: Pizza, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking Powder
           Salt - if wanted
    1/4 c  Oil
    2/3 c  Milk
 
  Mix and roll out on your pizza pan or stone - I use this recipe all
  the time when I demo's and everyone asks for the recipe....
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Dough, and variations
 Categories: Breads, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 1 pizza
 
MMMMM-----------------------STANDARD DOUGH----------------------------
      1 tb Granulated sugar
      1 c  Warm water, 110-115 deg F
    1/4 oz (1 envelope) active dry
           -yeast
  3 1/4 c  Bread, semolina, or unbleach
           -all-purpose flour, or a
           -combination
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Olive oil, preferrably
           -extra virgin

MMMMM------------------------WHOLE WHEAT-----------------------------
      1 tb Sugar or honey
  1 1/4 c  Warm water as above
      1    Envelope yeast
  1 1/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      2 c  Whole-wheat flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Olive oil as above, or
           -vegetable oil

MMMMM--------------------------CORNMEAL-------------------------------
      1 tb Sugar
      1 c  Warm water as above
      1    Envelope yeast
  2 1/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose or
           -semolina flour
      1 c  Yellow cornmeal or polenta
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Olive oil or vegetable oil

MMMMM--------------------------NEW YORK-------------------------------
      1 c  Warm water as above
      1    Envelope yeast
  3 1/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  In a small bowl, dissolve the sugar or honey in warm tap water that is
  110-115 deg F. (When making the New York Variation, omit the sugar and
  proceed as follows). Sprinkle the yeast over the water and stir gently
  until it dissolves, about 1 minute. Let stand in a warm spot until a
  thin layer of foam covers the surface, about 5 minutes. Discard
  mixture and start over if bubbles have not formed within 5 minutes.
  
  If making whole-wheat dough, combine the 2 flours in a bowl and use
  as the flour in the directions that follow.
  
  If making the cornmeal dough, combine the flour and cornmeal in a
  bowl and use the mixture as the flour in the directions that follow.
  
  To mix and knead the dough by hand: Combine 3 cups of the flour with
  the salt in a large mixing bowl. Make a well in the center of the
  flour and pour in the yeast mixture and the oil, if using. Using a
  wooden spoon, vigorously stir the flour into the well, beginning in
  the center, and working toward the sides of the bowl, until the flour
  is incorporated and the soft dough just begins to hold together.
  
  Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. Dust your hands
  with flour and knead the dough gently in the following manner: press
  down on the dough with the heels of your hands and push it away from
  you, then partially fold it back over itself. Shift it a quarter turn
  and repeat the procedure. While kneading, very gradually add just
  enough of the remaining 1/4 c flour until the dough is no longer
  sticky or tacky. This should take about 5 minutes. As you work, use a
  metal dough scraper to pry up any bits of dough that stick to the
  work surface. Continue kneading until the dough is smooth, elastic,
  and springy. Too much kneading overdevelops the gluten in the flour
  and results in a tough crust.
  
  After mixing and kneading the dough, shape the dough into a ball and
  place it in a well-oiled bowl, turning to coat completely on all
  sides with oil. Cover the bowl tightly with plastic wrap to prevent
  moisture loss and set to rise in a draft-free warm place (75-85 deg
  F) until doubled in bulk, about 45 minutes for quick rising yeast to
  1 - 1.5 hours for regular yeast.
  
  With your fist, punch down the dough as soon as it has doubled in
  bulk to prevent overrising. Shape it into a ball, pressing out all
  the air bubbles. If you are using bread flour or semolina flour, turn
  the dough in an oiled bowl to coat once more, cover again with
  plastic wrap and refrigerate it until puffy, from 35 minutes to 1
  hour. Omit this step if using all-purpose flour.
  
  If you cannot bake pizza withing 2 hours after rising, punch the
  dough down again, turn it in an oiled bowl to coat once more, cover
  the bowl tightly with plastic wrap and refrigerate. The dough can be
  punched down a total of 4 times and kept refrigerated up to 36 hours
  before the yeast is exhausted and the dough unusable. Let chilled
  dough come to room temperature before proceeding.
  
  Excerpted from the book, _Pizza_, by James McNair. Chapter includes
  instructions on dough-making with a food processor and professional
  mixing bowl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Pizza Pie
 Categories: Casseroles, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Spaghetti sauce mix(1.5oz)
      1 x  Water
      1 cn Mushrooms,sliced(2.5oz)
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Garlic salt
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese,grated
      1 cn Tomato paste(6oz)
    1/2 ts Oregano,crushed
      1 lb Turkey,ground
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs,seasoned
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Mozzarella,cheese,shredded
 
  1. Combine in a saucepan the spaghetti sauce mix, tomato paste and
  half a tomato paste can of water.
  2. Add oregano and mushrooms; bring to a boil.
  3. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 10 minutes, stirring
  occasionally.
  4. Combine turkey, milk, bread crumbs, garlic salt and pepper.
  5. Press turkey mixture evenly over bottom and sides of a 9-inch pie
  plate.
  6. Spoon spaghetti sauce evenly into meat crust; sprinkle with
  Parmesan cheese.
  7. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 30 minutes.
  8. Sprinkle with mozzarella cheese; bake 15 minutes longer.
  9. Cool slightly; cut into wedges to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: COFFEE LIQUOR DIPPER WINGS
 Categories: Alcohol, Poultry, Appetizers
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 oz Butter
    1/2 c  Onion, finely chopped
    3/4 ts Chile powder
      2 dr Hot sauce
      1 c  Barbecue sauce
      2 tb Honey
      1 x  Salt and pepper to taste
      2 ea Cl Garlic, minced
      1 ts Cumin
    1/2 c  Coffee liqueur
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Salt
     20 ea Chicken wings
 
      In a 2 Qt. saucepan melt butter; saute garlic and onion over
  medium heat for 3 minutes. Add cumin and chili powder and cook,
  stirring constantly for 2 minutes. Blend in Coffee Liqueur and cook
  to reduce liquid by one-half. Stir in hot sauce, Worcestershire,
  barbeque sauce and salt. Simmer 5 minutes. Remove from heat and add
  honey. Set aside and allow to cool.
      Prepare chicken wings by removing and discarding the tips. Divide
  the wings in half at the remaining joint. Marinate the wings in the
  cooked sauce for 1 hour at room temperature, or overnight in the
  refrigerator. To cook,, place the marinated wings on a broiler pan,
  sprinkle with salt and pepper and broil 5 minutes, turn and brush
  with the remaining sauce and bake at 350 degrees for 15 minutes.
  Serve hot. Wings can be prepared a day ahead and can be reheated in
  the oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GOAT CHEESE-AND-WALNUT PIZZA TOPPING
 Categories: Main dish, Appetizers, Vegetarian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6 oz Fresh goat cheese
    1/2 c  Walnuts
      2 tb Walnut or safflower oil
 
  CRUMBLE THE GOAT CHEESE and sprinkle it all over the pizza. In a
  small bowl toss the walnuts with the walnut or safflower oil to coat.
  Place the walnuts all over the pizza. Bake according to directions.
  
  Makes Enough for 2 9-Inch Pizzas
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THE 30-MINUTE PIZZA
 Categories: Pizza, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------THE DOUGH------------------------------
      1 pk Fast-rising dry yeast
      3 c  All-purpose white flour
           -(bread or high-gluten flour
           - is not right for
           -  this recipe)
      1 c  Hot water (120F-to-130F)
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM---------------------TOPPING COMPONENTS--------------------------
    1/2 c  Mozzarella
           -(or other melting cheese),
           - thinly sliced
           - or cut into 1-inch cubes
      1 c  Tomato sauce; -=OR=-
  1 1/2 lb -Fresh tomatoes
           - seeded, drained
           - and roughly chopped
      2    Garlic cloves (optional)
           - peeled and minced
    1/2 ts Dried oregano; -=OR=-
      6    -Fresh basil leaves,
           - shredded
           Freshly ground black pepper
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Believe it or not, this pizza is ready in half an hour.
  
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 500F.
  
  (Mixing and kneading: 1 1/2 minutes.)
  
  Place the yeast and 1 cup of the flour in the bowl of a food
  processor and pulse once using the metal knife or the plastic dough
  blade. With the machine running, pour in the hot water (make certain
  it's hot when you use it). As soon as it's in, turn the machine off;
  add the salt and remaining 2 cups of flour. Next, pulse until the
  dough begins to hold together; then let the machine run continously
  until a ball of dough forms.
  
  (Assembly: 5 minutes.)
  
  Lightly oil the pan with vegetable oil and dust with coarsely ground
  yellow cornmeal. Press the dough out into an 8-inch circle with your
  fingertips and then roll or stretch it out into a 15-or-18-inch pizza
  shell. Fit the shell onto prepared pan. Sprinkle desired toppings
  over dough, and finish with a drizzling of olive oil. Bake 15 minutes
  or until the crust is golden and the topping is bubbly. For a
  well-done crust bake 5 minutes longer.
  
  Makes 1 Pizza
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pesto White Pizza
 Categories: Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Parsley, chopped
      1 c  Basil, chopped
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb + 1 t olive oil
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
    1/2    Recipe basic pizza dough
  1 1/2 c  Ricotta cheese, part skim
  4 1/2 oz Mozzarella, part skim
      2 tb Skim milk
      4    Large plum tomatoes
    1/4 c  Beef broth
 
  Preheat oven to 475 degrees. Mix parsley, basid, garlic, broth, oil
  and 1 tb parmesan until combined. Spread pizza dough with pesto. In
  medium bowl, combine ricotta cheese, mozzarella, milk and reminag 1
  tb parmesan. Pread cheese mixture evenly over pesto; arrange tomato
  slices over chees. Bake 20-25 minutes, until crust is golden.
  Exchanges: 1/2 FA, 1 1/2 P, 1/2 V. 1 1/2 B, 10 cal.  Per serving: 170
  cal, 5 gm fat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza at last
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      4    Sweet red peppers
      4 lb Ripe tomatoes
      3    Cloves garlic
      1 ts Honey
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Hot red pepper flakes
      3    Sprigs fresh basil
  1 1/2 c  Parmesan cheese

MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
  1 1/2 ts Dry instant yeast
      1 c  Warm water
      1 ts Sugar
    2/3 c  Rice flour
    1/3 c  Potato starch flour
  1 1/2 ts Solid vegetable shortening
           Melted
      1 ts Salt
 
  to prepare topping core and seed red peppers and cut into strips.
  Place peppers on aluminum foil lined baking sheet, skin side up, and
  place under brolier flame till skin is blackened, 8 to 10 minutes.
  Remove to cool. Peel off skins. Cut tomatoes into sections, but do
  not remove the seeds and juice. Puree 1/3 of the peppers, tomatoes
  and garlic in the blender or processor repeat with remaining
  ingredients 2 or more times. Transfer tomato pepper mixture to large
  pan. Add honey and salt. Cook on high heat until mixture boils, then
  reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, untill mixture thickeness of
  sauce, at least 1 hour. add red pepper flakes and leaves from fresh
  basil. Meanwhile prepare dough. Dissolve yeast in large bowl in 1/2
  cup warm water until dough achieves consistency of cake frosting,
  that spreads but not runs. Grease 10X15 inch jelly roll or baking
  pan. Pour batter down center and spread evenly with spatula into
  circle. Raise edges slightly to hold topping sauce and sprinkle with
  Parmesan cheese bake 425 until done 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from
  oven make 4 to 6 servings. from gluten free cooking by Pat Garst.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppy Pizza Pies
 Categories: Sandwich, Cheese/eggs, Meats
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     10 oz Hungry Jack Biscuits
     10 oz Pizza sauce
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/2 lb Ground beef; browned and
           -drained
      8 oz Pepperoni; sliced
      4 oz Shredded Mozzarella Cheese
           (1 cup)
      2 tb Parmesan Cheese
 
  Heat oven to 400~. Lightly grease cookie sheet. Seperate dough into 10
  biscuits. Press or roll each to 5" circle forming 1/4 inch rim around
  outside edge. Spread 2 tablespoons sauce just to edges of pizza;
  sprinkle each with small amount of oregano. Top with pepperoni,
  ground beef and cheeses. Bake at 400~ from 12-15 minutes until crust
  is golden brown and cheese is melted. Remove from cookie sheet.
  Refrigerate leftovers. Makes 10 pizzas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puffed Pizza Casserole
 Categories: Meats, Casseroles, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef ground
     15 oz Tomato sauce
      1 c  Onions; chopped
      1 c  Green pepper; chopped
    1/2 c  Water
  1 1/2 oz Spaghetti sauce mix
      1 ts Oregano
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter; melt
      1 tb Oil
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Flour
      8 oz Mozzarella cheese; shred
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
 
  Cook beef until brown and drain. Stir in tomato sauce, onions, green
  peppers, spaghetti sauce mix, oregano, garlic and dash of hot pepper
  sauce if desired. Bring to boiling. Reduce heat and simmer, covered,
  for 10 minutes. Meanwhile in a small mixer bowl, beat milk, melted
  butter, oil and eggs for 1 minute. Add the flour and beat 2 minutes
  more. Turn the meat mix into a 9x13 pan. Sprinkle with shredded
  mozzarella cheese. Top with the batter. Sprinkle with parmesan
  cheese. Bake in 400~ oven for 30 minutes, or until puffed and golden.
  Let stand 10 minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peppy Mini Pizza Pies
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     10 oz Hungry Jack Biscuits
     10 oz Pizza sauce
    1/2 ts Oregano; crushed
      8 oz Pepperoni; sliced
    1/2 lb Ground beef
      4 oz Mozzarella Cheese; shredded
      2 tb Parmesan Cheese
 
  Brown and drain ground beef. Heat oven to 400~. Lightly grease cookie
  sheet. Separate dough into 10 biscuits. Press or roll each to 5"
  circle forming 1/4" rim around outside edge. Spread 2 tablespoons
  sauce just to edges of pizza; sprinkle each with small amount of
  oregno. Top with pepperoni, ground beef and cheeses. Bake at 400~
  from 12-15 minutes until crust is golden brown and cheese is melted.
  Remove from cookie sheet. Refrigerate leftovers. Makes 10 pizzas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Breakfast Pizza
 Categories: Boboli, Pizza
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -DOLORES ASTROTH-NKHV59A
      2 sm Bobolis
      2    Eggs; scrambled
        x  Tomatoes; sliced
        x  Ham
        x  Swiss Cheese
 
  Top each boboli with a lightly scrambled egg.  Add in this order:
  sliced tomatoes, ham and swiss cheese. The Pizza Bobboli wrapper
  gives direction for time and temp.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Superfast Vegetarian Pizza
 Categories: Can/preserv, Pizza, Vegetables, Boboli
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 md Zucchini; diced
      1 md Yellow crookneck squash;dice
    1/2 ts Dried crushed red pepper
           -flakes
     16 oz Baked chese pizza crust;
           -such as Boboli
     14 oz Jar mushroom pizza sauce
      3 lg Cloves garlic; minced
      4 oz Mozzarella; shredded
    1/2 c  Oil-pk sun-dried toms;drain,
           -thinly sliced
    1/3 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
 
  Preheat oven to 450~. Heat oil. Add zucchini, yellow squash and red
  pepper; sauce until veggies are almost tender, about 5 minutes. Place
  pizza crust on baking sheet. Spread mushroom sauce over. Sprinkle
  with garlic, then mozzarella. Top with squash mixture and tomatoes.
  Sprinkle with Parmesan. Bake pizza until cheese melts and crust is
  crisp, about 13 minutes. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Presto
 Categories: Boboli, Meats, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 lg Or 4 sm Boboli shells
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      1 md Yellow onion; sliced
      1 lg Green pepper; cut in strips
    1/4 lb Pepperoni; sliced
    1/4 lb Ground meat; cooked
      2 oz Black olives; pit, slice
  1 1/2 ts Oregano
           Black pepper to taste
      1 oz Cheddar cheese; grated
      1 oz Mozzarells; cut thin strips
 
  Preheat oven to 450~. Saute onion until tender. Add green pepper and
  pepperoni, stir frequently for several minutes. Remove from heat and
  add olives and cooked beef. Mix combination together with oregano and
  pepper and spread on Boboli. Sprinkle grated cheese and mozzarella
  over top. Heat for 6 to 8 minutes. Serve piping hot. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Marietta
 Categories: Boboli, Meats, Vegetables, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A]
      1    12" or 4 6" Boboli shells
    1/2 c  Pizza or tomato sauce
      1 c  Mozzarella; shredded
      4    Italian sausages; cook,
           -slice
      1 c  Green pepper; thin strips
      8 sl Red onion; thin, separated
 
  Spread sauce on Boboli shell. Sprinkle with cheese. Arrange remaining
  ingredients on top. Bake at 450~ 10-12 minutes. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: California Pizza
 Categories: Boboli, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen
      1 c  Cheddar; shredded
      1 c  Ripe olives; sliced
      1    12" or 4 6" Boboli shells
      1    Avocado; peel, slice
      1 c  Alfalfa sprouts
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      4 sl Bacon; cook, crumble
 
  Sprinkle cheese and olives over shell. Bake at 450~ for 10 minutes.
  Top with avocado and sprouts. Garnish with sour cream and bacon. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesy Mushroom Pizza/Sun-dried Toms
 Categories: Can/preserv, Boboli, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      2 c  Mushrooms; sliced
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Pizza or tomato sauce
      1    12" or 4 6" Boboli shells
      1 c  Cheddar; shredded
      4    Sun-dried tomatoes; cut in
           -strips, dry-pk
 
  Saute mushrooms in oil 2 minutes. Spread sauce on Boboli; sprinkle
  cheese over. Top with mushrooms and tomatoes. Bake at 450~ for 10
  minutes. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tricolor Boboli Pizzas
 Categories: Boboli, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 lg Red onions; sliced
      2 lg Red bell peppers; slice thin
      2    1lb Boboli shells
    3/4 c  Olive paste*
    1/2 lb Soft mild goat cheese, such
           -as Mongrachet; crumbled
    1/2 c  Fresh oregano; chopped
    1/2 c  Pine nuts; toasted
 
  *Olive spread (olivada) is available at Italian markets. If
  unavailable, use pureed, pitted, bring-cured black olives. Heat olive
  oil and saute onions and peppers until beginning to brown, stirring
  frequently, about 10 minutes. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Let
  onion mixture stand at room temperature.) Preheat oven to 450~. Place
  Boboli on pizza pan. Spread each with half of onion mixture. Sprinkle
  with goat cheese. Bake until cheese softens, about 10 minutes. Remove
  from oven. Sprinkle with oregano and pine nuts. Cut into wedges and
  serve. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Mushroom/Olive/Sun-Dried Tomato Pizza
 Categories: Can/preserv, Pizza
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
     30 md Black olives; halved
     30    Sun-dried tomato pieces
      3 oz Pk enoki mushrooms; remove
           -stems
      2 md Red bell peppers; roasted
      1 c  Tomato or marinara sauce
    1/4 lb Provolone cheese; shredded
      6 oz Mozzarella cheese; shredded
      2    16" or 4 8" pizza shells
 
  Preheat oven to 550~. Spread 1/2 cup of tomato sauce on shell (or 1/4
  cup on 8" shells.) Place olive halves, sun-dried tomatoes, peppers
  and small clumps of mushrooms on pizza. Sprinkle provolone on the
  veggies, then distribute mozzarella over entire pizza. Bake for 8-10
  minutes until the dough is browned and crisp and the cheese if golden
  and bubbly. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Triple Cheese Pizza
 Categories: Boboli, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 lg Boboli crust
      6 tb Purchased pesto sauce
      1 c  Fontina cheese; grated
      5    Plum tomatoes; seed, slice
           -thin
      2 ts Dried oregano
    1/2 c  Mozzarella cheese; grated
    1/4 c  Parmesan; grated
           Fresh basil leaves; optional
 
  Preheat oven to 500~. Place pizza crust on large baking sheet. Spread
  pesto over. Sprinkle evenly with Fontina. Arrange tomate slices over.
  Season with pepper. Sprinkle oregano over, then mozzarella and
  Parmesan cheese. Bake until crust is golden brown and topping
  bubbles, about 10 minutes. Garnish with basil leaves. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza di Napoli
 Categories: Boboli, Pizza
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      2    Red peppers
      2 ts Olive oil; divided
      4 c  Spinach; coarsely chop
      1 cl Garlic; minced
      1    Sweet onion; sliced
    1/2 c  Water
      4 sm Italian bread shells
      8 oz Kraft Healthy Favorites
           -Part-skim Mozzarella; shred
      1 ts Coarse grind black peppe
 
  Place peppers on cookie sheet. Broil 2 to 3" from the heat until all
  sides are blackened, about 10 minutes. Place in paper bag; cool. Seed
  and cut into strips. Reduce oven temnperatute to 450~. Heat 1 t olive
  oil. Add garlic; cook until gragrant. Add spinach; cook and stir
  until spinach is wilted. Remove from pan. Heat remaining oil in
  skillet. Add onions; cook until onions begin to brown. Add water;
  cover and simmer over low heat until onions are limp, about 15
  minutees. Remove cover and continue cooking until all water has
  evaporated. For each pizza, place onions on bread shell; sprinkle
  with 1/4 c cheese. Arrange spinach mixture and red pepper strips on
  shell in alternating rows. Sprinkle with 1/4 C cheese and pepper.
  Place on cookie sheet. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until cheese is
  melted. Source: Sentry News (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Primavera
 Categories: Pizza, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
  1 1/2 c  Broccoli flowerets
      1 c  Yellow summer squash
    3/4 c  Asparagus pieces
      8 oz Healthy favorites low-fat
           -Mozzarella; shredded
      4    Pita bread rounds
      3    Plum tomatoes; sliced
      2 tb Fresh basil; minced
    1/4 c  Frozen peas; thawed
      2 tb Parmesan; shredded
 
  Preheat oven to 400~. Cook veggies until crisp-tender. Drain.
  Sprinkle 1/4 C mozzarella on each pita bread. Top with tomato slices;
  sprinkle with basil. Arrange cooked veggies and peas on tomato
  slices. Sprinkle with remaining mozzarella and Parmesan. Place on
  cookie sheet. Bake 8 minutes or until mozzarella cheese is melted.
  Source: Sentry-News (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southwest Tomatillo Salsa Pizza
 Categories: Pizza, Vegetables, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      4    6" flour tortillas
    1/2 c  Tomatillos; chopped
    1/2 c  Plum tomatoes; chopped
      2    Jalapenos; seed, chop fine
      2 tb Cilantro; minced
      1 tb Lime juice
      1 cl Garlic; minced
    1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/4 ts Salt
      8 oz Healthy Favorites Low-fat
           -Mild Cheddar; shred, divide
      2 sm Chicken breast halves; bone,
           -skin, cut in thin strips
      1 tb Chili powder
    1/2 c  Thin red onion wedges
 
  Heat oven to 375~. Place tortillas on cookie sheet. Bake 5 minutes or
  until lightly toasted. In small bowl, mix tomatillos, tomatoes,
  jalapenos, cilantro, juice, garlic, pepper sauce, cumin and salt.
  Stir in 1 cup cheese. Mix chicken with chili powder, tossing to coat.
  Spray skillet with Pam. Cook chicken until tender. For each pizza,
  spreac 1/2 cup tomato mixture on 1 tortilla. Top with chicken, onion
  wedges and 1/4 cup remaining cheese. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until
  cheese is melted.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Magic
 Categories: Can/preserv, Pizza, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
           Whole pita breads
           Garlic flavored olive oil
           Rehydrated sun-dried tomato
           -halves
           Canned artichoke hearts;
           -sliced
           Basil; chopped
           Mozzarella cheese; shredded
 
  Heat a baking sheet in a very hot oven. Lightly brush pita breads on
  both side with oil. Top each with tomato halves, artichokes. Sprinkle
  with basil and cheese. Bake on hot sheet about 5 minutes until bread
  is crisp and cheese is melted. Source Sonoma Sun-dried Tomatoes (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MYSTERY PIZZA
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Alexander, PBJF04B
    1/3 c  Ricotta (part skim) cheese
    1/4 c  Tomato paste
    1/4 ts Oregano
      2 tb Mushrooms
    3/4 oz Mozzarella
      3 tb Flour
 
  In small bowl, blend ricotta & flour. Place in center of small sprayed
  baking pan.  Spread in 7 " circle, mounding edges. Bake about 20
  minutes at 350.  In small bowl, combine tomato paste, oregano, and
  Worcestershire sauce. Spoon over crust. Top with mushrooms & cheese.
  Bake about 10 minutes at 350.
  
   Each serving = 1 bread, 1 vegetable, 2 protein.
   Formatted for MM by Joyce Burton, PDPP83A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Teriyaki Wing Dings
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry, Asian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 lb Chicken wings**
 
  **Drumettes or chicken wings, cut at joints and wing tips removed.
  Combine all ingredients; mix well; add chicken. Cover and refrigerate
  at least six hours or overnight, turning occasionally. Preheat oven
  to 375 degrees. Arrange chicken on rack in aluminum-fool-lined
  shallow baking pan. Bake 40 to 45 minutes, basting occasionally with
  marinade. Refrigerate leftovers. Rita Taule's own.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GLAZED SHOYU CHICKEN WINGS  FBFJ97A
 Categories: Poultry, Appetizers, Low cal/fat, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Chicken wings
      3 ea Green onions; cut in 2" piec
      3 tb Dry sherry
    1/4 c  Dark soy sauce
      2 ts Sugar
      1 x  Sesame seeds; if desired
 
       Remove tips from wings.  Leave whole or cut at joint. Place
  onions in large wok or pan on medium heat. Stir in sherry and soy
  sauce. Add sugar and bring to a full boil. Reduce heat and place
  chicken in mixture. Cover and simmer over low heat for 20 minutes,
  turning occasionally or until done.  Sprinkle sesame seeds if
  desired. Makes 8-10 *****The Book of Appetizers by June Budgen*****
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ONO CHICKEN WINGS   FBFJ97A
 Categories: Poultry, Appetizers, Asian, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Soy sauce
      1 c  Pineapple juice
      1 ea Clove garlic; minced fine
      2 tb Onion; minced
      1 ts Ginger; grated
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      7 oz Beer
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      5 lb Chicken wings
      1 x  Sesame seeds; toasted
 
      Cut off and discard the small tip of each wing.
   Cut main wing at joint.  Combine first 8 ingredients and stir until
  dissolved.  Pour over chicken and marinate overnight. Be sure sauce
  overs all pieces.
   Drain and save marinade.  In large skillet, heat a small amount of
  oil and brown chicken on all sides over medium. When brown, add 1/2
  cup marinade; cover; reduce heat and simmer 15-20 minutes. Stir and
  add more marinade if necessary. May be cooked a day in advance and
  reheated in oven before serving.  Add marinade to moisten before
  heating. Serve hot in a chafing dish. Sprinkle with toasted sesame
  seeds if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA CARCOIFI
 Categories: Can/preserv, Pizza, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-------------------------
      1    Recipe for Traditional Pizza
           Dough; shaped; ready for
           Topping
           -TOPPING
      2 tb Tomato Topping
      2 oz Fontina Cheese; shredded
      5 oz Marinated artichoke hearts
      8    Sun-dried tomatoes in oil
           Salt and pepper
           Parsley leaves; for garnish
           -TOMATO TOPPING
      1 lb Tomaotes; peeled
           <<<OR>>>
     16 oz Canned tomatoes
      2 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion; finely chopped
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
      1 tb Tomato paste
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Fresh basil; chopped
           Salt and pepper
 
  Make Tomato Topping.  Chop tomatoes, if using fresh. Heat oil in a
  medium saucepan.  Add onion and garlic; cook until soft. Stir in
  tomatoes, tomato paste, sugar and basil. Season to taste with salt
  and pepper. Cover pan and simmer 30 minutes until thick. Preheat oven
  to 425~. Spread the dough with Tomato Topping. Sprinkle with cheese.
  Drain artichokes, reserving oil. Drain tomatoes.  Slice artichokes
  and arrange over the cheese. Chop tomatoes roughly and sprinkle over
  the artichokes. Season to taste with salt and pepper. Sprinkle with 1
  to 2 tablespoons of the reserved oil. Bake 20 minutes until dough is
  golden. Garnish with parsley. Source: The Pizza & Pasta Cook Book,
  Contributing authors: Sarah Bush and Lesley Mackly with more than 500
  color illustrations
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ITSY BITSY PIZZA
 Categories: Snacks, Kids
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -BSC Custom Choice
           -Measuring spoons
           -A cheese grater
           -A small bowl
    1/2    English muffin; or
           -whole pita bread
           Tomato sauce
           Cheese
 
  * Spread 1 to 2 tablespoons tomato sauce on the muffin or pita. (You
  may need a bit more for a pita.) * Grate 2 tablespoons cheese into
  the small bowl. * Sprinkle the cheese onto the muffin or pita. Add
  more
    cheese if you like. * Heat in a toaster oven until the cheese melts.
  Watch
    carefully. Let cool before serving.
   COMMENTS: "I want pizza!" Here's a kid-sized pizza he'll love!
  Source: Baby Sitters Club Tips & Tactics Reformatted for Meal Master
  by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RUEBEN PIZZA
 Categories: Pasta
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Pizza Dough
           Thousand Island Dressing or
           Russian Dressing
    1/2 pk Sauerkraut
    1/2 lb Corned beef
  1 1/2 c  Grated swiss cheese
 
  Reuben Pizza  Spread a pound or more of pizza dough on a pizza pan.
  Spread Thousand Island or Russian dressing on top(as you would
  sauce). Rinse, and drain 1/2 a package of sauerkraut, and spread on
  top of pizza. Cut up corned beef(1/4 to 1/2 pound) into
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Flavored Popcorn
 Categories: Snacks
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Grated parmesan cheese
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Italian herb seasoning
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Salt
        ds Pepper
      2 qt Hot popcorn
 
  In blender, blend cheese, garlic powder, italian seasoning, paprika,
  salt and pepper about 3 minutes. Place popcorn in large bowl;
  sprinkle with cheese mixture. Toss to coat evenly. Makes 3 quarts
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini Pizzas
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
           Large zucchini
           Salt
           For each slice of zucchini
           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
      1 tb Pizza sauce
      1 ts Black olives; chopped
      1 ts Green onions; minced
      2 tb Mozarella cheese; grated
 
       Preheat broiler, placing rack about 5inches from heat source. Cut
  zucchini into slices 1/4 inch thick. Salt lightly. Place slices on
  baking sheet and add in order the pizza sauce, olives, green onions
  and cheese. Broil until cheese is melted and bubbly, about 4-5
  minutes. Zucchini should be tender-crisp.  Yield will depend on size
  of zucchini.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BOBOLI PIZZA CRUST ***NHRFI9C
 Categories: Main dish, Appetizers, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Yeast
    1/4 c  Water
  2 1/4 c  Warm water
      6 tb Olive oil; plus extra for p
  5 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt- optional
           Topping:
           Kosher salt
      4 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Water
           Ground pepper
           Rosemary
           Thyme
 
  Mix together first six ingredients and let rise 30-40 minutes. Divide
  dough into 3 parts and place in 3 olive -oiled pie pans. Dimple dough
  with fin- gers.
   Mix olive oil and water,  brush tops with this mixture. Sprinkle on
  top: sea salt, pepper, rosemary and thyme. Let rise 50 to 60 minutes.
  Bake at 35 degrees for 25 minutes.  May dip in olive oil. Have
  checked and rechecked this recipe and this is how I printed it out.
  Haven't tried it though. I am not sure why they have 1/4 cup of water
  and 2-1/4 cups warm water, either. Still I hope this recipe helps you
  out! FROM: VIVIAN THIELE (NRHF19C)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA SPINACH CASSEROLE *** NFWF89A
 Categories: Main dish, Italian, Casseroles
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef-lean
     15 oz Pizza sauce
      3 c  Cottage cheese-- add your ow
     30 oz Ravioli
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
      1 cn Olives; sliced black
      2 pk Spinach ;(defrosted, draine
 
  Line one baking dish with foil to freeze for later use. Lightly PAM
  both. Spread  spinach equally in both dishes. Brown ground beef in
  very hot pan, drain and add pizza sauce. Atop the spinach, layer 1/4
  meat, 1/2 cottage cheese and 1/2 ravioli in each dish. Add remaining
  meat, cottage cheese, olives and top with parmesan cheese. Cover and
  freeze one casserolle if desired. Don't use ravioli sauce. Bake
  covered frozen casserole, after replacing  it in dish in a 400* oven
  for 1 1/4 hours. Uncover and bake 30 mins,  more.
    Bake unfrozen cassserole in a 350* oven,  uncovered, for 35 mins. or
  until bubbly. Serve with salad and French bread. GUY ATTWOOD (NFWF89A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           For the dough:-
      1 tb Active dry yeast
  1 1/4 c  Warm water
           Pinch of sugar
      4 c  Unbleached white flour
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Olive oil
           For the topping:-
      2    Garlic;cloves
      3 tb Olive oil
           Salt to taste
  1 1/2 c  Tomato sauce
      2 c  Sliced mushrooms
  1 1/2    Sl Green peppers
      1 c  Sliced onion
  1 1/3 c  Low-fat cottage cheese
      3 ts Oregano
      4 ts Olive oil
 
  THE DOUGH:-  Place yeast, 1/4 cup warm water, and sugar in a large
  bowl or the work bowl of your food processor. Let proof (become
  bubbly). Mix in flour and salt. Mix in remaining 1 cup warm water and
  olive oil. Knead or process until dough is smooth and elastic, adding
  more flour if needed. Place dough in a large greased bowl, cover with
  a towel, and let rise for about 45 minutes. While the dough is
  rising, place 4 unglazed, 5-inch square quarry tiles or pizza tiles
  in oven and heat oven to 450oF. Pizzas baked on such tiles have
  crunchier crusts. After dough has risen, divide it into 4 equal
  parts, form each into a smooth ball, and cover for 10 minutes. Roll
  the dough into 4 small circles, 10 to 12 inches each. Wait 10 minutes
  more. Roll the dough thinner. a thin layer of cornmeal or grease
  pizza pan with oil. Place one rolled circle of dough on the pizza
  peel or in pizza pan. Crush garlic into olive oil. Paint surface of
  the dough with garlic oil and
  
  sprinkle with salt. Spoon about 1/4 cup tomato sauce over dough.
  Arrange mushrooms, green pepper and onion over tomato sauce. Put
  cottage cheese on top (as if it were mozzarella). Sprinkle with 3/4
  teaspoon oregano and drizzle with olive oil. Bake for 10 - 20 minutes
  or until crust is golden brown. DEE PENROD
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHINESE CHICKEN WINGS* DXDG05A
 Categories: Chinese, Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 48 servings
 
     24    Chicken wings, separated,
           -tips discarded
      2 c  Soy sauce
      2 ts Prepared mustard (the Asian
           -kind not Frenches)
      2 ts Freshly grated ginger
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Finely chopped garlic
 
  *Gai Yik 1. Combine soy,mustard, ginger, sugar and garlic, stir
  well,then pour over chicken wings, 2. Cover and refrigerate over
  night 3. At serving time heat oven to 350 degrees and bake for 1 hour
  or grill on a charcoal fire. Posted by Jane Harris. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato-Topped Spaghetti Pizza
 Categories: Pasta, Pizza, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
     10 oz Fresh tomatoes; core, slice
      8 oz Spaghetti; cook, drain twice
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Parmesan; grated, divided
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Mozzarella; shredded
      1 ts Italian seasoning
    1/2 c  Pepperoni; sliced
    1/2 c  Green bell pepper; chopped
    1/4 c  Ripe olives; pit, slice
           -(optional)
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Lightly spray a 12" pizza pan with non-stick
  cooking spray. In a medium bowl beat eggs. Add spaghetti, 1/4 c
  Parmesan and oiil; toss to coat spaghetti. Spread spaghetti evenly
  into prepared pan; bake until spaghetti crust is firm, about 20
  minutes. Remove from oven; set aside. In a small bowl combine
  mozzarella cheese, Italian seasoning and remaining 1/4 c Parmesan. On
  spaghetti crust sprinkle 1 c cheese mixture. Top with reserved tomato
  slices, pepperoni, green pepper and olives. Sprinkle with remaining
  1/2 c cheese mixture. Bake until hot and cheese is melted, about 10
  minutes. This is a good recipe for a child. Source: Times-Picayune
  (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: QUICK FRUIT AND RICOTTA PIZZA
 Categories: Breakfast, Pizza, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
      1 pk (10 oz.) refrigerated
           -pizza dough
      2 oz Paper-thin slices
           -prosciutto
      8 oz Part-skim ricotta cheese
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
      2    Medium-size (2/3 lb. total)
           Nectarines or peeled
           -peaches, pitted and thinly
           -sliced
    3/4 c  Dark seedless grape halves
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  Unroll dough and press evenly into an oiled 14-inch pizza pan (or
  10-by 15 inch pan). Bake on bottom rack in a 425 degree oven until
  crust is well browned, about 8 minutes. Cut enough prosciutto into
  1/4-inch strips to make 1/4 cup; set remainder aside. Mix ricotta and
  peel; drop in 1 tablespoon portions over crust. Arrange nectarines,
  grapes, and prosciutto strips on crust. Combine sugar and cinnamon;
  sprinkle over pizza. Bake until fruit is hot to touch, about 5
  minutes longer. Accompany with remaining prosciutto. Cut into wedges.
  Serves 6. Per serving: 234 calories (22% from fat), 5.6 grams fat,
  487 m sodium, 17 mg cholesterol.
  
  COMMENTS: A ready-to-cook refrigerated pizza crust, the base for the
  breakfast pastry, makes morning baking a snap. In addition to the
  fruit pastry, offer more fresh grapes and nectarines for munching.
  Source: Sunset Magazine - May, 1993
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Sausage Pizzaiola BILL LAWRIE RGGW25A
 Categories: Italian, Meats, Sausage, Sandwich, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------ITALIAN SAUSAGE PIZZAIOLA----------------------
      1 lb Italian sweet sausage, remo
      2 ts Olive oil
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
    1/4 c  Chopped onions
      1    Red bell pepper, roasted, s
      6 oz Jar marinated artichoke hea
      8    Kalamata olives, pitted & c
      2    Garlic cloves, chopped
      6    Plum tomatoes, cut into 1/4
    1/2 ts Italian seasoning
      4 tb Chopped fresh basil
           Salt & freshly ground black
      8    Small or 4 large French sou
      4 tb Grated Romano cheese
           Cubed
 
  Brown sausage slowly, rendering as much grease as possible. Submerge
  sausage in boiling water for 10-15 seconds to allow more grease to
  float away. Saute mushrooms, onions, red pepper, artichoke hearts,
  olives, garlic in olive oil until crisp-tender, about 3-4 minutes.
  Add tomatoes, Italian seasoning, basil and sausage. Reduce heat and
  simmer until it is of the right consistency. Add salt & pepper to
  taste. Meanwhile, cut tops off rolls and hollow them out. Then place
  in 350F oven for a few minutes until crusts are crisp. Fill each roll
  with sausage/vegetable mixture. Sprinkle Romano atop each roll and
  place under broiler just until cheese starts to melt. Serve this
  alongside a green salad with Italian dressing* and a glass of
  Bardolino or Chianti. *If you make your own Italian dressing, save
  the artichoke marinade to mix into the dressing. Serves 4. Enjoy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parmesan Chicken Wings   I.E.S.JJGF65A
 Categories: Poultry, Italian, Cheese/eggs, Appetizers
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------

MMMMM----------------------NATHALIE DUPREE---------------------------
      1 c  Freshly grated parmesan ches
      1 tb Heaping,finely chopped fresh
      1    Parsley
      1 tb Fresh,oregano or marjam
           Choppedor 1 ts.of either
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Fresh ground pepper
      2 lb Chicken wings cut up
    1/2 c  Butter melted
 
      Preheat oven to 375 deg.Mix cheese,parsley,oregano,salt and pepper
  together and place on a dry tray.Dip each piece of chicken into the
  butter,then roll in the cheese mixture,coating well.Place on a greased
  baking sheet.Bake for 45 minutes,turning when brown.Wings will freeze
  well.Thaw in refrigerator,and heat in a 375 deg. oven.Makes 4 main
  course or 8 appetizer servings...
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Individual Pizzas - gwhp32a
 Categories: Appetizers, Italian, Kids
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     16    English muffins
           Garlic
           Butter
           Salt & pepper
      2    Onions
           Parmesan cheese
  2 1/2 lb Ground chuck
           Red peppers; crushed
 
  1.  Split, toast, and butter the muffins. Saute thinly diced onions
  with the ground chuck, then add the seasonings. Spoon the mixture
  onto the muffins. 2. Cover generously with Parmesan cheese and bake
  at 350 degrees to the desired degree of doneness. 3. These can be
  frozen and heated from their frozen state. I sometimes add mushrooms,
  different cheeses, pepperoni, anchovies, bell peppers, sausage and
  anything else I get my hands on, and make a few of each kind.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Red Pepper Pizza
 Categories: Italian, Main dish, Pizza
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Cornmeal
    3/4 c  Pizza sauce
      4 oz Thinly sliced prosciutto
      8 oz Provolone cheese
      1 tb Fresh chives  or
      1 tb Fresh basil leaves or
     10 oz Can PB Pizza Crust or (HM)
    1/2 c  Grn bell pepper strips
      7 oz Jar roasted red peppers
  2 1/4 oz Ripe sliced black olives
      1 ts Dried chives
      1 ts Dried basil
 
  Heat oven to 425 F. Grease 12" pizza pan or 13x9" pan. Sprinkle corn
  meal evenly over bottom of pan. Place dough in center of pan and
  press out with hands. Spoon pizza sauce evely over crust. Top with
  green pepper, onions, prosciutto and roasted red peppers. Arrange
  cheese slices over top. Sprinkle with olives, chives and basil.
  
  Bake at 425 F for 20-25 min or until crust is deep golden brown. Let
  stand for 5 min.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA SAUCE #1
 Categories: Pizza, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Tomato paste
      1    Clove garlic (chopped)
      3 c  Water
      1 pt Oregano
      3 pt Cooking oil
    1/4 pt Marjoram
      1 pt Black pepper
    1/4 pt Basil
      1 pt Instant minced onion
      1 pt Brown sugar
      1 pt Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Combine ingredients in a 1 qt sauce pan and cook for 30-40 minutes.
  Makes enough sauce for 4 12" Pizzas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA SAUCE #2
 Categories: Pizza, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Tomato paste
    1/4 c  Raw onion (chopped)
      1 cn Tomato sauce
      1    Clove garlic (chopped)
      3 c  Water
      2 pt Oregano
      3 pt Cooking oil
      1 pt Brown sugar
 
  Combine ingredients in a 2 qt sauce pan and cook for 30-40 minutes.
  Makes enough sauce for 5 12" Pizzas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA SAUCE #3
 Categories: Pizza, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Tomato paste
    1/4 pt Marjoram
      3 c  Water
    1/4 pt Oregano
      3 pt Cooking oil
    1/2 pt Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Raw onions (chopped)
      1 pt Black pepper
      1    Clove garlic (chopped)
      1 pt Parmesan cheese (grated)
 
  Combine ingredients in a 1 qt sauce pan and cook for 30-40 minutes.
  Makes enough sauce for 4 12" Pizzas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA SAUCE #4
 Categories: Pizza, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Tomato paste
    1/4 pt Oregano
      3 c  Water
    1/4 pt Basil
      3 pt Cooking oil
    1/2 pt Parsley
      1    Clove garlic (chopped)
      1 pt Parmesan cheese,grated
    1/4 c  Raw onion (chopped)
      1 pt Black pepper
    1/2 pt Brown sugar
 
  Combine ingredients in a 1 qt sauce pan and cook for 30-40 minutes.
  Makes enough sauce for 4 12 " Pizzas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA SAUCE #5
 Categories: Pizza, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Tomato puree
    1/4 pt Basil
      3 c  Water
  1 1/4 pt Black pepper
      3 pt Cooking oil
    1/4 pt Oregano
      1    Glove garlic (chopped)
      1 pt Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Raw onion (chopped)
      1 pt Brown sugar
 
  Combine ingredients in a 2 qt sauce pan and cook for 30-40 minutes.
  Makes enough sauce for 5 12" Pizzas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: QUICK CALIFORNIA PIZZA
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Stewed tomatoes (14.5 oz)*
      1    Bread shell,large
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 cn Mushrooms,sliced (3 oz)
      1 tb Parsley
    1/3 c  Romano cheese,grated
 
  * - Italian style
  ======================================================================
  ===
  Drain tomatoes and save juice. Add olive oil to reserved tomato juice
  and brush over the top of bread shell. Arrange tomatoes and mushrooms
  on top. Sprinkle with parsley and Romano cheese. Bake 10 minutes at
  450'F.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MAHOGANY WINGS
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Chicken wings (or 1 lb
           -boneless, skinless chicken
           -breast cut
           Into 1x1/2" strips)
      2 tb Teriyaki sauce
    1/2 c  Plum sauce (or plum
           -preserves)
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 sl Garlic root, minced (or 1/2
           -tsp ground)
      1 tb Arrowroot
      2 tb Water
 
  From "Count Out Cholesterol Cookbook" By Mary Ward.
  
  If you have a taste for chicken wings, try these.  They are hot,
  spicy and delicious.  To reduce the fat and cholesterol even further,
  use lean chicken breast strips in place of the wings.
  
  Serves 6 (3 wing pieces)
  
  no stick cooking spray
  
  Cut off wing tips and discard (T: or stash in the freezer for stockpot
  later).  Separate the wings at the joints.  Cut off any visible fat.
  Wash and pat dry.  Or simply use the chicken strips.
  
  In a med saucepan, combine the teriyaki sauce, plum sauce, sugar,
  Worcestershire sauce, garlic, ginger, arrowroot, and water.  Heat,
  whisking the sauce, until smooth and thick and the sugar and
  arrowroot are dissolved.  Put the chicken pieces in the hot marinade,
  cover, and refrigerate for 4 hours or overnight.
  
  Preheat oven to 400F.  Spray a lg baking pan with no stick cooking
  spray. Drain marinade from wings.  Bake for 15 min until they are
  tender and crispy.  (Or, bake chicken strips for 10 min.)  Serve hot.
  
  Each serving (3 wings):  Cal 485; chol 129mg For chicken strips: Cal
  165; chol 51mg
  
  Posted by Theresa Merkling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TASTY CHICKEN WINGS
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Side dish, Meats
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           ****** Ingredients ******
      3 lb Chicken wings
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      4 tb Brown sugar
      1    Crushed clove of garlic
    1/4 c  Catsup
 
  Serves 10-12
  
  ****** Directions ******
  
  Place cleaned, disjointed wings in foil-lined 9x13-inch pan. Sprinkle
  with salt, pepper and paprika. Combine honey, soy sauce, brown sugar,
  garlic and catsup. Pour over wings and bake uncovered turning and
  basting every 15 mins with sauce. Bake @400 for 1 hour.
  
  ~_The Crowning Recipes of Kentucky_
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP AND SCALLOP PIZZA
 Categories: Seafood, Pizza, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lg Shrimp
      4    Sea scallops or 12 to 14 bay
           -scallops
      2    Cloves garlic,finely minced
      2 tb Garlic olive oil,more as
           -needed
      1    Scallion,sliced
           Pizza dough with thyme
           Oil and cornmeal for pan
    3/4 c  Pizza sauce with thyme
      3 oz (1 cup) grated mozzarella
           -cheese
      3 oz (3/4 cup) goat cheese
 
  Wash,peel,devein shrimp and cut into half lengthwise.Wash scallops and
  slice,if using large variety.Pat seafood dry on paper towels. Saute
  garlic in oil over medium low heat until soft.Do not allow to
  brown.Lower the heat and add shrimp and scallops.Cook for 1 to 2
  minutes.Remove to a plate to cool.Add the sliced scallion to the pan
  and cook over medium heat for 3 minutes.Remove and reserve the oil.
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees.Roll out dough on floured surface.Brush
  pan with a little oil and sprinkle with cornmeal.Place the dough on
  the pan and trim the edges.Bake for 10 minutes.Remove from oven and
  lightly brush the crust with a little oil.Spread with half mozzarella
  cheese and half the pizza sauce.Now add the crumbled goat cheese,
  shrimp and scallops and spoon on the rest of the pizza sauce.Top with
  remaining mozzarella.Bake on the bottom rack of oven for 15 to 20
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA WITH MIXED SEAFOOD
 Categories: Pizza, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil, preferably
           -saflower or canola
      2    Stems broccoli, washed,
           -seperated into small
           -florets and peeled and
           Sliced stems
  1 1/2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 ts Chopped fresh oregano (or
           -3/4 tsp dried oregano)
      1 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/3 c  Low fat milk
      1    (8 ounce) pkg of reduced fat
           -cream cheese, softened
      1    Unbaked 14" oat bran pizza
           -crust (another qbook
           -export)
      1 cn (6 3/4 ounce) clams, drained
           -and picked over
      1 cn (6 3/4 ounce) tiny shrimp,
           -drained
 
  salt to taste freshly ground pepper
  
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees. In a medium sized frying pan, heat oil.
  Saute broccoli, mushrooms and onion for 5 minutes. Add oregano and
  cilantro. Remove from heat; stir in milk and cream cheese. Allow
  cream cheese to soften. Mash until a smooth sauce forms. Arrange
  seafood on the 14" oat bran pizza shell. Spoon vegetable mixture
  
  over the top. Salt to taste. Bake for 20 minutes. Sprinkle with
  freshly ground pepper. When cooked, pizza topping will be lightly
  browned and the underside of the crust will be deep brown. Cut into 8
  slices. Yield: One 14" pizza Source: Count Out Cholestrol Cookbook,
  1987 Shared by Allison Cozzi
  
  Courtesy of Shareware PROFESSIONAL RECIPE CLIPPER 2.0
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ONION HERB PIZZA
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Dry yeast
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Sugar
  3 1/2 c  Flour
      3 tb Olive oil
           *FILLING*
      4    Large onions, sliced
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Rosemary
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
 
  Servings:  6
  
  *DOUGH*
  
  Proof yeast, warm water and sugar. Put 1 3/4 cup of flour in
  processor, start, add 3 tbls olive oil, add yeast mixture, add
  remaining 1 3/4 cup flour.  Continue processing to make a soft
  pliable dough. Spread on oiled pan, prick well.
  
  Saute onions in olive oil until brown but not burned.  Add garlic. Add
  vinegar, rosemary and parmesan cheese. Spread mixture over dough.
  
  Bake at 350 F 15 minutes or until crust is browned.
  
  From the recipe files of Sheila Exner - October 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA DOUGH #3
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Of flour.
      1 c  Of warm water.
      3 ts Of oil
    1/2    Packet of yeast. (not quick
           -rise).
 
  RE: PIZZA dough DATE: 04-01-91 AREA: COOKING
  
  For some simple pizza dough. salt spice, eg. Rosemary bake for 15
  min. add toppings, bake until desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA DOUGH #4
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Warm water (110-115 degrees)
      1 pk Active dry yeast
      3    To 3-1/2 C flour
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  Ok, let's start with the basics here...pizza dough. For this recipe
  there are only a few pieces of equipment you will need to have. Youll
  need a large mixing bowl and a wooden spoon (make sure it's a WOODEN
  spoon!).
  
  Begin by warming the mixing bowl by running warm water into it. It is
  important that the bowl be warmed for proper rising of the dough.
  
  Pour the water into the bowl and sprinkle in the yeast. Stir gently
  with fork until yeast is dissolved and mixture is a light beige in
  color.
  
  Add the olive oil, sugar and salt and stir gently until well mixed.
  
  Slowly add the flour, one cup at a time and mix into the liquid with
  wooden spoon. When the dough begins to pull away from the side of the
  bowl, flour your counter area and begin to knead in remaining flour.
  ONLY ADD AS MUCH FLOUR AS IS NEEDED TO MAKE THE DOUGH WORKABLE.
  
  When the dough is no longer sticky, STOP working the dough!
  Overworking the dough will tend to make it tough after cooking.
  
  Place dough back into the mixing bowl and allow it to rise for at
  least one hour.
  
  The dough should now be ready for use. This dough is designed for
  "thick" crust or deep dish pizza but will work just as well for
  stuffed pizza.
  
  A few tips for making dough...you can use a food processor or mixer
  to make the dough but you will find it is better (not to mention
  easier) to work the dough by hand. DO NOT use water above 115 degrees
  as this may kill the yeast. You can get by with a one hour rise of
  the dough but to eliminate the yeast flavor it is best to allow the
  dough to go through several rises. After an hour or so punch into the
  middle of the dough to cause it to "fall", repeat this process two or
  three times before rolling (or spreading if you're talented <g>) the
  dough. Be careful how much you "work" the dough, the goal is
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA DOUGH #5
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Yeast
  1 1/3 c  Water at 40 C (100F)
      1 tb White sugar
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Olive oil
      1    Egg
      4 c  Flour
 
  I do not have any idea what "Chicago Style" is.  While virtually any
  bread recipe will work as a pizza dough, this is what I use for two
  crusts:
  
  Soften yeast in warm water for about 10 minutes.  Mix in ingredients
  (except the flour) and combine well.  Add flour all at once and knead
  until a smooth dough is formed.  If it is a bit sticky, then add a
  little more flour. Let rise for an hour, beat down, roll out and
  spread one's choice of toppings. If you are pressed for time, the
  first rising can be shortened to 15 minutes, but this is not
  recommended. MK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA DOUGH #6
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 pk Fast-rising dry yeast
      2 c  Tepid (90F) water
      2 tb Sugar
      4 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 ts Salt
  5 1/2 c  Unbleached white flour
      3    Cloves garlic, crushed
    1/4 c  Olive oil for topping (if
           -making focaccia only)
      1 tb Whole rosemary (ditto)
      1 tb Kosher salt (ditto)
 
  From:   Ted Taylor
  
  The following recipe is for "focaccia Romana," or Roman focaccia,
  from Jeff Smith's "The Frigal Gourmet Cooks Three Ancient Cuisines."
  He recommends it as the best dough for a pizza crust he's run across,
  and I must say it is both
  
  very easy and VERY good to eat.  I halved the following recipe (but
  used the full amount of garlic, plus 2 c of meaty red sauce, about 4
  oz. of pepperoni, 8-9 fresh mushrooms and 8 ounces of whole-milk
  mozzarella) and the results were great.  Lacking quick-rise yeast, I
  used regular yeast and just ate a little later -- no problem there.
  And of course, I made the dough into a pizza instead of a plain
  focaccia (which is like a thick pizza (also round, but thicker) but
  without toppings.
  
  Dissolve the yeast in the tepid water.  Add the sugar, olive oil,
  oil, and salt.  Mix in 3 c of the flour and whip until the dough
  begins to leave the sides of the mixing bowl, about ten minutes [!!].
  I [Smith] use my KitchenAid mixer for the whole process.
  
  Mix in the remaining flour by hand or with a dough hook and knead the
  dough until it is smooth.  Allow the dough to rise twice, right in
  the bowl, and punch down after each rising.
  
  Oil 2 baking sheets, each 13 inches by 18 inches, and divide the dough
  between the 2 pans.  Using your fingers, press the dough out to the
  edges of each pan. Allow to rise for about 30 minutes and brush with
  the crushed garlic mixed with the oil for topping. Sprinkle the
  rosemary and kosher salt on top.
  
  Bake at 375 degrees for about 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC PIZZA DOUGH, WEIGHT WATCHERS
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1    Envelope active dry yeast
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/4 c  Hot water (120 -130 deg. F)
 
  Makes two 12" pizza crusts. 8 Servings each.
  
  1.  In a large bowl, combine 2 cups flour, the yeast and salt. With
  electric mixer, slowly beat in water; beat 2 minutes, occasionally
  scraping bowl with rubber spatula.  With mixer on medium speed, beat
  in 1/2 cup flour; beat 2 minutes, until dough is stiff.  Stir in 1
  1/2 cups flour. 2. Sprinkle clean work surface with 1/4 cup flour.
  Knead dough
  
  Courtesy of Shareware PROFESSIONAL RECIPE CLIPPER 2.0
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA WITH RICE CRUST
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
      1    Onion, small, sliced
      1    Garlic, minced
      1 c  Mushrooms, sliced
      1    Green or Red Pepper
      2 c  White Rice, cooked
      1    Egg, beaten
  2 1/2 c  Part-skim Mozzarella
    1/2 c  Tomato Sauce
    1/2 ts Basil, dried
    1/4 ts Oregano, dried
      1    Black Pepper, freshly ground
      1 ds Tabasco Sauce
           Seed the green or red pepper
           -and cut into strips.
 
  Servings:  4
  
  In a large frypan, heat oil over medium-high heat and stir-fry onion,
  garlic, mushrooms and peppers until crisp-tender, about 3 - 4
  minutes. Set aside. In a bowl, combine rice, egg and 1/2 cup grated
  cheese. Press evenly into an oiled 12 - inch pizza pan. Bake in an
  oven preheated to 400 degrees for Sprinkle rice curst with half the
  remaining cheese. Stir together tomato sauce, basil, oregano, pepper
  and Tabasco. Spread tomato sauce over, then top with vegetables.
  Sprinkle with remaining mozzarella cheese. Bake for about 12 - 14
  minutes or until cheese is bubbly. Let rest for 5 minutes before
  cutting. Serves 4.
  
  From The Gazette, 91/05/22.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ZUCCHINI CRUST PIZZA (MERRILYN VAUGHAN)
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Grated zucchini - medium
           -grater
      3    Eggs, slightly beaten
    1/3 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Zucchini Crust Pizza (Merrilyn Vaughan)
  
  This is something my mother makes which even *I* like [and I don't
  like 'chini!]  Got her to send it to me just for you folks!
  
  Preheat oven to 450 degrees.  Press liquid out of squash.  Throw out
  liquid.  Combine zucchini, eggs, flour and salt.  Spread on a well
  greased 9" x 12" baking sheet or 12" pizza pan.  Bake until firm.
  
  Remove from oven.  Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees. Spread with
  pizza sauce and favorite toppings.  Sprinkle with your favorite
  cheese. Return to oven.  Bake until sauce is bubbly and cheese is
  melted, about 10 to 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC PIZZA CRUST
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Sugar
      1 pk Dry yeast
      1 c  Warm water (105 deg.F. to
           -115 deg.F.)
      3 c  All-purpose flour, divided
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Olive oil
           Vegetable cooking spray
      1 tb Cornmeal
 
  Basic Pizza Crust
  
  From:  Cooking Light magazine, Sept./Oct. 1991 issue
  
  Dissolve sugar and yeast in 1 cup warm water in a large bowl; let
  stand 5 minutes.  Stir in 2 3/4 cups flour, salt, and oil to form a
  soft dough.
  
  Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface.  Knead until smooth and
  elastic (about 5 minutes); add enough of remaining flour, 1
  Tablespoon at a time, to prevent dough from sticking to hands.
  
  Place dough in a bowl coated with cooking spray, turning dough to
  coat top. Cover dough and let rise in a warm place (85 deg.F.), free
  from drafts, 1 hour or until doubled in bulk.
  
  Punch dough down, and divide in half.  Roll each half of dough into a
  12 inch circle on a lightly floured surface.  Place dough on 12-inch
  pizza pans or baking sheets coated with cooking spray and each
  sprinkled with 1/2 Tablespoon cornmeal.  Crimp edges of dough with
  fingers to form a rim. Cover and let rise in a warm place (85
  deg.F.), free from drafts, 30 minutes.  Top and bake according to
  recipe directions. Yield: 2 (12-inch) pizza crusts (about 720
  calories each).
  
  Note:  Store half of dough in freezer up to 1 month, if desired.  Let
  dough rise; punch down, and divide in half.  Dust half with flour,
  wrap in plastic wrap, and store in a zip-top heavy-duty plastic bag
  in freezer. To thaw, place dough in refrigerator 12 hours or
  overnight; bring to room temperature, and shape as desired.
  
  Protein 19.8, Fat 5.1, Carbohydrate 145.3, Cholesterol 0, Iron 8.9,
  Sodium 299, Calcium 30
  
  Take care, Kyosho
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FAVORITE PIZZA DOUGH
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water (Warm)
      1 pk Dry yeast
           Let stand 5 mins.
           Add:
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      1 tb Oil
 
  Beat well.
  
  Than add 1 1/2 cups of unbleached flour, beat until smooth. Add
  remaining 1 1/2 cups of flour.
  
  knead if you need to. Then spread in to a 16 1/2 X 10 1/2 X 1/2 inch
  pan. Spread on you favorite sauce and toppings. Bake for apx 15-20
  mins. at 450 degrees.
  
  This is my own recipe so you may find you have to adjust.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Four Cheese Pizza
 Categories: Boboli, Pizza, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHc42A
      1 lg 12" Boboli shell or
      4 sm 6" Boboli shells
      5 oz Pk Boboli pizza sauce for
           -large or
  1 1/4 oz Pk for each 6" shell
      1 oz Ricotta cheese
      1 oz Parmesan; grated
      1 oz Cheddar cheese; shredded
      3 oz Mozzarella cheese; shredded
 
  Spread pizza sauce then ricotta cheese on top of shell. Sprinkle
  cheeses over sauce in order given. Bake at 450~ for 12-15 minutes
  (5-8 minutes for 6"). Source: Boboli Co. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Supreme Style Pizza
 Categories: Boboli, Pizza, Meats, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 lg 12" Boboli shell or
      4 sm 6" Boboli shells
      5 oz Pk Boboli pizza sauce for
           -large; or
  1 1/4 oz Sauce pk for each small 6"
      2 oz Provolone cheese; shredded
      2 oz Pepperoni
      1 oz Canadian bacon
      1 oz Hard salami; diced
      2 oz Mozzarella; shredded
      2 oz Black olives; sliced
 
  Layer ingredients on top of shell in order given. Bake at 450~ for
  12-15 minutes (5-8 minutes for 6"). Source: Boboli Co. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Dippers (Not bad)
 Categories: Appetizers, Sausage
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Italian sausage
    1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
    1/3 c  Cold water
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Shortening
 
  Brown sausage, crumbling, and drain.  Combine flour, cheese, salt.
  Cut in shortening until mixture resembles peas.  Stir in the sausage.
  Add water a bit at a time until the mixture can be shaped into balls.
  Bake 10-12 minutes @ 450~.  Serve with toothpicks and PIZZA SAUCE.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini and Phyllo Pizza
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetables, Vegetarian, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 pk Phyllo dough
    1/2 lb Butter; melted
    1/2 c  Grated Asiago cheese
    1/4 c  Mixed herbs; snipped
           - (savory, basil & chives)
      2    Young Seneca zucchini
      2    Young Gold Rush zucchini
 
  Preheat oven 400 degrees F.  Lightly butter a cookie sheet.  Place two
  layers of phyllo dough on it, brush with butter, sprinkle with 1 tbs.
  cheese and 1 tsp. herbs.  Put two more layers of phyllo on top, press
  down firmly.  As before, brush with butter, sprinkle with cheese and
  herbs. Continue for 14 layers.  Roll over edges to form a lip on the
  crust and butter to keep in place.  Slice zucchini thinly and place
  on top of phyllo crust.  Have fun; make a face, circles, or heart,
  etc. (let the kids do it).
  
  Sprinkle with remaining cheese and herbs and a little melted butter.
  Bake 15 minutes, cool on rack.
  
  Copyright Ellen Ecker Ogden From: The Cook's Garden catalog -
  Spring/Summer 1990 - page 20
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: USS Chicago-Style Pizza
 Categories: Pizza, Meats, Sausage
      Yield: 1 pizza
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      1    Package active dry yeast
      2 ts Sugar
  1 1/4 c  Warm water
  3 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Pizza sauce
     12 oz Shredded mozzarella cheese
    1/2 lb Ground beef, crumbled,
           -cooked
    1/4 lb Italian Sausage, crumbled,
           -Cooked
    1/4 lb Pork Sausage, Crumbled,
           -Cooked
    1/2 c  Pepperoni, diced
    1/2 c  Canadian bacon, diced
    1/2 c  Ham, diced
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, sliced
      1 sm Onion, sliced
      1    Green bell pepper, seeded,
           -sliced
      2 oz Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  1. For dough, sprinkle yeast and sugar into warm water in small bowl;
  let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes.
  
  2. Mix flour, oil and salt in a large bowl; make a well in the center
  and add yeast mixture. Stir to form a soft dough, adding more flour if
  necessary. Turn onto a floured board and knead until dough is supple
  and elastic, 7 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl, cover and let
  rise in a warm spot until dough has doubled, about 1 hour. Punch down.
  
  3. Roll dough to a 15-inch circle. Transfer to an oiled 14-inch pizza
  pan, folding the excess over to make a small rim. Spread with pizza
  sauce; sprinkle with all but a handful of the mozzarella cheese.
  Sprinkle with meats and vegetables. Top with remaining mozzarella and
  Parmesan cheese. Let rise in a warm spot about 25 minutes.
  
  4. Heat oven to 475 degrees. Bake pizza until crust is golden, about
  25 minutes. Let stand 5 minutes before slicing. Posted By
  japlady@nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor) On rec.food.recipes or
  rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mahogany Chicken Wings With Green Papaya Salad
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Plus 2 tablespoons hoisin
           Sauce
    3/4 c  Plum sauce
    1/2 c  Light soy sauce
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 c  Each: dry sherry and honey
      5    Green onions, minced
      6 lg Garlic cloves, minced
      4 lb Chicken drumettes
           Green Papaya Salad
           Sprig of Thai basil
           GREEN PAPAYA SALAD:
      1 lb Unripe green papaya, peeled
           And grated, or cut into
           Julienne strips
      6    Green bird's eye chilies,
           Seeded and diced
      5    Garlic cloves, minced
      2 oz Long beans, blanched and cut
           Into 1-inch pieces
      2 tb Roasted cashews
    1/4 ts Dried shrimp, minced
      3 tb Fresh lime juice
      1 tb Crushed palm sugar
      1 tb Bottled Thai fish sauce
 
  In a large bowl, combine hoisin, plum and soy sauces, vinegar, sherry,
  honey, green onions and garlic;mix well.Add chicken drumettes, cover
  and marinate at least 24 hours in refrigerator.
  
  Next day, preheat oven to 375 degrees. Arrange drumettes on baking
  pan and roast, basting frequently, until marinade thickens and
  chicken is a mahogany color, about 30 to 40 minutes.
  
  Place Green Papaya Salad on a large platter and arrange Mahogany
  Chicken Wings over top. Garnish with Thai basil.
  
  GREEN PAPAYA SALAD: Combine all ingredients in a large bowl and mix
  well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jamaican Chicken Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Appetizers
      Yield: 18 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
     72    Chicken drummettes
           MARINADE
      2    Scotch Bonnet peppers or
      4    Jalapenos; seeded
      3 bn Green onions
      1 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Dark rum
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      1 tb Fresh thyme
      1 ts Each ground cloves, nutmeg,
           -allspice and cinnamon
 
  Blend all marinade ingredients in a blender. Marinate chicken wings
  overnight. Use gallon plastic bags. Cook wings in a 350~ oven for 30
  to 40 minutes. Baste frequently. Source: Times-Picayune
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jerk Chicken Wings
 Categories: Poultry, Appetizers, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 8 servings
 
 
  JERK CHICKEN WINGS (Makes 48) ****************** Don't worry, be
  happy! The name of this recipe is no reflection on the cook; jerk is
  a fiery Jamaican marinade for chicken, pork, or beef.
  
  24 whole chicken wings (about 4 pounds) 8 scallions, cut into 1-inch
  pieces 4 fresh jalapeno peppers, seeded and coarsely chopped 2 T
  distilled white vinegar 1 T ground allspice 4 garlic cloves, chopped
  2 t dried thyme 1 t salt 1/2 t freshly ground pepper 1/4 t cayenne
  1/4 c vegetable oil Lime wedges
                                                        > >> 1. Rinse
  chicken with cold water and pat dry. Cut off and discard pointed tip
  of each wing and halve wings at the main joint.
  
  2. In a food processor, combine scallions, jalapeno peppers, vinegar,
  allspice, garlic, thyme, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Process until well
  blended. With machine on, slowly pour in oil and puree until a thick
  paste forms.
  
  3. In a large bowl, combine chicken wings and jerk paste. Toss until
  wings are well coated. Cover and refrigerate overnight
  
  4. Preheat broiler. Arrange wings on broiler pan about 6 inches from
  heat and broil, turning once, until nicely browned outside and cooked
  through, about 20 minutes total. Serve warm or at room temperature
  with lime wedges and lots of napkins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PIZZA DOUGH RECIPE I
 Categories: Pizza, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  Water at 45 C (110F)
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Yeast
      2 tb Vegetable oil (olive
           -prefered)
      1 ts Salt
      1    Egg
      4 c  Flour
 
  Proof yeast in warm water and sugar.  Add rest of ingredients and
  knead until an elastic dough is formed.  Rise once until doubled,
  beat down roll out onto pans and let rest for 15 minutes before
  topping. If time is short, the first rise can be skipped with little
  quality depreciation.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Dessert Pizza
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk White Cake Mix
  1 1/4 c  Quick cooking rolled oats
    1/2 c  Margarine or butter softened
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    1/4 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
     21 oz Blueberry Fruit Filling
 
  Heat oven to 350~. Grease 12" pizza pan or 13x9" pan. In large bowl,
  combine cake mix, 1 cup oats and 6 tablespoons margarine at low speed
  until crumbly. Reserve 1 cup crumbs for topping. To remaining crumbs
  blend in egg. Press in prepared pan. Bake at 350~ for 12 minutes. In
  same large bowl, add remaining 1/4 cup oats, 2 tablespoons margarine,
  nuts, sugar and cinnamon, to reserve crumbs; mix well. Remove base
  from oven and spread pie filling evenly over top. Sprinkle with
  reserved crumb mixture. Return to oven and bake 15-20 minutes or
  until crumbs are light golden brown. Cool completely. Cut in wedges
  or squares. Makes 12 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Mulligatunny - India
 Categories: Game, Herbs/spice, Indian, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-disjointed
      2 qt Of water
      6    Peppercorns
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ginger
      2 ts Coriander
      1 ts Vinegar
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Onion-sliced
    1/4 ts Chili peppers
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Wash pheasants and add to saucepan with the water, peppercorns and
  salt. Bring to a boil and cook one and a half hours or until tender.
  Skim the fat.
  
  Pound together to a paste; the numeric, ginger, coriander and
  vinegar. Melt the butter in a small skillet; saute the onions and
  chili peppers until brown. Taste for seasoning. The pheasant may be
  served in a soup or separately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breast of Pheasant Indian Style
 Categories: Breads, Curries, Game, Indian, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Pheasant breasts
      2 tb Onion-chopped
      2 tb Celery-chopped
      3 tb Butter
    1/4 ts Curry powder
           Parmesan cheese-grated
    1/2 c  Cream
      1 c  Milk
      1 tb Sherry
    1/4 c  Peaches
      1 c  Chicken
           Croutons
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Saute onions and celery in butter until browned. Add salt and curry
  powder and mix thoroughly. Add flour and cook until bubbly, stir in
  milk and cream. Stir until thick, cook until all starchy flavor is
  gone. Combine the sherry and peaches. Poach pheasant breasts in
  broth, combine to the curry sauce and simmer for ten minutes. Spoon
  over croutons and sprinkle cheese on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Bombay - India
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Curries, Game, Indian, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
    1/4 c  Flour
      4 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Onions-chopped
    1/3 c  Green peppers-diced
           Toasted almonds
      1    Clove garlic-minced
  1 1/2 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Thyme
      2 c  Stewed tomatoes
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Dredge pheasant in seasoned flour, heat butter and brown pheasant on
  all sides. Remove pheasant; add the onions, pepper, garlic, curry
  powder and thyme. Add tomatoes and liquid from can. Return the
  pheasant, cover and cook until tender. Serve with the almonds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant and Pineapple - Persia
 Categories: Fish, Nuts/grains, Game, Middle east, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Pheasants &
      3 tb Oil
    3/4 ts Chili peppers, ground
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3    Cloves garlic-minced
    1/2 c  Shallots-minced
    1/2 ts Anchovy paste
  1 1/2 c  Pineapple
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Lemon rind
      2 c  Coconut cream
      2 ts Soy sauce
      1 c  Sauteed scallions
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Cut the pheasant from the bones and into small cubes. Pound the chili
  peppers, salt, garlic, shallots and anchovy into a paste. Toss with
  the pheasant and let stand for one hour. Heat the oil in a large
  skillet; saute the pheasant and pineapple until brown. Add the lemon
  juice, rind, coconut cream and soy sauce. Cook over low heat thirty
  minutes or until tender. Sprinkle scallions on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Magic Carpet Pheasant - Persia
 Categories: Curries, Game, Middle east, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-disjointed
      2 lg Onions-chopped
      4 oz Oil
      4    Oranges-peeled
      2    Lemons-peeled
      4 oz Olives
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 oz Soy sauce
      1 ts Curry powder
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Saute the pheasant pieces and onions in the oil until browned. Add the
  remaining ingredients, cover and simmer thirty minutes or until
  tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Roast Pheasant - Persia
 Categories: Game, Middle east
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      2 tb Soft butter
      1 ts Garlic-minced
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
      2    Onions-sliced
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter-melted
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  The principal flavor here is butter, cinnamon and lemon.
  
  In a small bowl mix the soft butter with the garlic, cayenne,
  cinnamon and divide the mixture in half. Rinse the pheasant and dry
  thoroughly. Starting at the pointed end of the breast, use fingers
  and a small knife to lift the skin away from the breast meat;
  continue working your way under the skin to the legs, wings, and
  thighs. Spread half the spice butter under the skin and then coat the
  outside of the skin with the remaining butter mixture. Tie drumsticks
  together, cover loosely and refrigerate for two hours. Preheat oven
  to 350.
  
  Arrange onions on the bottom of a shallow roasting pan and place
  pheasant on its side in the center. Roast in oven for twenty five
  minutes. Continue turning the bird from side to side, for fifty
  minutes more until golden brown, baste with the melted butter and
  lemon juice. When done, place bird on plate and spoon pan drippings
  on top and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Armenian Pheasant Cereal - Turkey
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant
      3 c  Pearl barley bulgur
      1 ga Water
      1    Cube butter
           Salt & pepper
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Soak barley overnight. Boil pheasant in the water and add seasonings,
  cook until well done. Add barley and butter to the broth, then add
  the remaining pheasant. Beat with a wooden spoon for along time until
  it looks like oatmeal mush. Serve in bowls with a spoonful of brown
  sugar sprinkled on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Ararat a la Hogopian - Turkey
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-disjointed
      2 ts Sweet basil
      2 ts Oregano
      4 tb Worcestershire
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 pn Of rosemary
      1    Onion-sliced
           Paprika
           Salt & pepper
      1 sm Can tomato sauce
      4 oz Olive oil
      4 oz Water
      1    Bell pepper-sliced
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  mushrooms-sliced
  
  Combine all ingredients in a large cast iron skillet. Bake in a
  preheated 450 oven for forty five minutes or until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Pheasant Frederick - Austria
 Categories: Aust/german, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Pheasant-disjointed
           Salt & pepper
           Flour
           Paprika
      1    Clove garlic-minced
    1/4 c  Meat broth
  1 1/2 pt Sour cream
      5 tb Salad oil
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Dredge pheasant in flour and seasonings, heat oil until very hot and
  add pheasant. Brown on all sides and add garlic. Remove skillet from
  fire and add broth. Pour sour cream over the top, don't stir. The
  cream will seep down through the pheasant as it is baking. Cover
  skillet and place in a 350 oven for thirty minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Pheasant Viennese - Austria
 Categories: Aust/german, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      1    Onion-chopped
      6 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Salt
      1    Clove garlic-minced
      1    Egg, 2 water & 4 oil mixed
           -together
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 c  Bread crumbs
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Combine onions, oil, salt, pepper, garlic, lemon juice, sugar and
  paprika. Marinate the pheasant pieces in this mixture for three
  hours. Dip the pheasant in the bread crumbs and then in the egg
  mixture. Fry pheasant until slightly brown on all sides. Place in a
  baking dish and cook in a preheated 375 oven for one hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant a la Bohemienne - Austria
 Categories: Aust/german, Alcohol, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      2    Or 3 snipe
           A slice of fat salt pork
      2    Or 3 truffles
      1    Or 2 eggs
           Herbs
           Paprika
           Salt & pepper
           Butter
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  The snipe is to be roasted, but left undone. All meat is then removed
  and finely chopped. At this time add the truffles, chopped up. The
  mixture is then cooked in butter and the eggs are added for flavor.
  The pheasant is then stuffed and cooked in a casserole with butter
  for forty five minutes. A little brandy and game stock poured over
  the top makes this recipe ideal for any hungry family.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Pheasant - British Isles
 Categories: British isl, Game, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper
      4 oz Ground beef
      2 tb Soft butter
    1/2 c  Melted butter
      4 sl Lean bacon
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Rub pheasant with salt and pepper inside and out. Place ground beef
  in the cavity and truss. Fasten neck and skin to back with a skewer.
  With a brush, coat skin evenly with two tbs of softened butter. Drape
  the bacon slices in a shallow roasting pan with the breast up, cook
  in a preheated oven at 350 for twenty minutes. Increase oven heat to
  400. Remove pheasant and discard bacon slices, brush with melted
  butter, roast twenty minutes basting often.
  
  Transfer to a heated platter and let the bird rest for ten minutes.
  Discard ground beef which is used to keep the bird moist and is not
  used as a stuffing. Traditionally this dish is served with bread
  sauce and game chips. This dish may be decorated with its own tail
  feathers before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant L' Angoumoise - France
 Categories: Nuts/grains, French, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
    2/3 lb Pork fat
      4 oz Truffles
      4 oz Chestnuts
      8 sl Of bacon
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Season to taste
  
  Stuff the pheasant with pork fat which has been rubbed through a
  sieve. Truffles and chestnuts should be cooked in consomme. This
  preparation should be seasoned, ought to be cold when stuffed into
  the pheasant. Wrap the bird with the slices of bacon. Roast in a
  preheated 350 oven for forty five minutes and take care to remove the
  bacon slices seven or eight minutes before the cooking is completed
  so that the outside of the pheasant can brown. Set on a platter and
  serve with periqueux sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Cream - France
 Categories: French, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      1    Onion-diced
    1/2 pt Of cream
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  lemon juice
  
  Cook the pheasant in a little butter. Make sure your sauce pan is big
  enough to hold the pheasant and the diced onion. When the cooking is
  three quarters done, sprinkle the bird with the cream or with regular
  cream acidulated with a few drops of lemon juice. Finish the cooking,
  baste often with the cream and serve in the sauce pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Normandy Pheasant - France
 Categories: Fruit, French, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      6    Apples-cleaned and diced
      2    Fresh cream
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Season to taste
  
  Brown the pheasant in butter. Meanwhile, mince and toss the apples in
  butter. Garnish the bottom of a casserole with a layer of the apples.
  Set the browned pheasant on top, surround it with the rest of the
  apples, sprinkle the pheasant and apples with the cream. Cover the
  casserole and cook in a preheated 350 oven for twenty five or thirty
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Souvaroff Pheasant - France
 Categories: French, Game, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant
      6    Truffles
      1 lg Glass Madeira Wine
      1 lg Glass meat glaze
      6 sl Of bacon
      1 sm Glass Madeira wine
      1 sm Glass game gravy
    1/2 lb Foie gras-diced
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Combine the large glass of Madeira and meat glaze in a medium sized
  sauce pan, add truffles and cook for five minutes. Take out the
  truffles and put them in the casserole dish in which the pheasant
  will be cooked.
  
  Cut the foie gras into large pieces, stiffen these in the truffles'
  cooking liquid and stuff the pheasant with these. Truss the bird,
  wrapping it in bacon slices and two-thirds roast it.
  
  When this is done, put the pheasant into the casserole containing the
  truffles, add the roasting liquid, the small glass of Madeira and game
  gravy. Cover the casserole and continue cooking for about fifteen
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baby Pheasant Souvaroff - France
 Categories: Alcohol, French, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Baby pheasants
      3    Butter-melted
      3    Cognac or brandy
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      4    Foie gras
      1    Black truffles
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  This recipe is said to have been a favorite of President and Mrs.
  Kennedy as prepared by Renee Verdon, White House chef during the
  Kennedy Administration.
  
  Roast the pheasants for about thirty minutes at 350; baste every ten
  minutes with melted butter. Remove the pheasants and keep warm. Pour
  drippings from the toasting pan into a skillet, add the cognac or
  brandy and flame it. Combine a small amount of sherry, some brown
  sauce and heavy cream and bring to a boiling point.
  
  Place the pheasants in an oven-proof terrine, spread with the foie
  gras, sprinkle with truffles and pour the gravy on top. Cover and
  bake in a preheated 300 oven for ten minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Pheasant - France
 Categories: French, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      3 tb Butter
      1    Clove garlic-minced
    1/2 ts Thyme
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Salt & pepper to taste string to truss
  
  Melt one tbs of the butter and add garlic and thyme. Pour this inside
  the pheasant, truss the legs and wings close to the body with the
  string. Sprinkle the pheasant inside and out with salt and pepper,
  brush with the remaining butter and roast in a moderately, preheated
  375 oven for one and a half hours. Baste often to prevent drying and
  to brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pate of Pheasant in Crust with Truffles - France
 Categories: Alcohol, French, Game, Potatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasant breasts
      4    Pheasant legs
      8 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
     10    Whole eggs
      1 lb Butter
  1 1/2 c  Water
      3 oz Cognac
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 ts Sage
    1/2 ts Allspice
      2 lb Pork shoulder
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Make a pate dough by putting the flour on a large piece of wax paper,
  make an indentation in the center, add the teaspoon of salt, six
  eggs, butter and the water. Work this dough with hands until it is of
  rolling consistency.
  
  To make the pate, cut the breasts in slices the size of french fried
  potatoes. Marinate overnight in the cognac, salt, pepper, sage,
  allspice and any other spice you would like to use.
  
  Grind the pork shoulder and the legs of the pheasants with the bone
  removed, using the finest blade of the food grinder. Add the rest of
  the eggs and marinade.
  
  Line the bottom and sides of a casserole, fourteen inches long, four
  inches wide and four inches deep with one quarter inch of dough. Make
  layers of the pork and the pheasant to the halfway mark of the
  casserole. In the center make a roll of truffles, and keep rotating
  pork and pheasant, finishing with the pork. Cover the dish with the
  remaining dough making little holes in the top to let the steam out.
  Cook in a preheated 350 oven for three hours. This recipe makes
  twenty five servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Hunter Style - France
 Categories: French, Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-disjointed
      6 oz Butter
      5    Shallots-chopped
      1    Onion-chopped
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1    12 oz can stewed tomatoes
    1/2 lb Mushrooms-sliced
     12 oz Chicken broth
      1 tb Flour
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 ts Tarragon & thyme
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Put four ounces of butter in a deep dish. When butter is hot cook the
  pheasant until golden brown, add the shallots and onions and cook
  slowly for three or four minutes. Add wine, tomatoes, mushrooms,
  broth, salt and pepper to taste. Cook slowly for twenty five minutes.
  Remove the pheasant pieces and keep warm. If desired, trim off wing
  tips and exposed bones.
  
  Boil the broth slowly and thicken with two ounces of butter blended
  with the flour. Boil the sauce slowly for five minutes, add the
  tarragon, bay leaf and thyme. Pour over the pheasant pieces.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Tarragon - France
 Categories: French, Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      2 tb Flour
           Salt & pepper to taste
      6 oz Of butter-melted
      3    Or 4 shallots
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1    Bay leaf/pinch of thyme
      2    Sprigs of parsley
      1 bn Fresh tarragon
    1/4 c  Cream
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Combine flour, salt and pepper and coat pheasant pieces, reserve any
  leftover flour. Brown lightly on all sides in melted butter for four
  or five minutes. Cut the shallots very fine and spread over pheasant.
  Simmer for a few minutes. Add wine, chicken broth and herbs, using
  only the stems of the tarragon and saving leaves for the sauce. Cover
  and simmer for twenty five minutes or until the pheasant is tender.
  
  To make the sauce, add to the pan juices, the cream and the remaining
  flour. Simmer gently until the sauce thickens. Strain the sauce over
  the pheasant, garnish with the tarragon leaves, whole or chopped.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Valle D'Auge - France
 Categories: Fruit, Alcohol, Vegetables, Beverages
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      2 tb Butter
           Salt & pepper to taste
      8    Onions-chopped
     12 sm Mushrooms
    1/2 c  Cider
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2    Egg yoLks
      2 tb Calvados
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  This Normandy dish uses Calvados or Apple Brandy and is an easy
  preparation which blends itself with other game birds as well.
  
  In a large skillet, heat the butter and add the pheasant pieces,
  which have been well seasoned. Cook for two minutes, do not brown.
  Add the chopped onions and simmer for two more minutes, add the
  Calvados and cider. Cover tightly and cook over low heat for forty
  five minutes or until tender. Remove the pheasant to a warm platter
  and keep hot. Slowly stir the cream into the pan and bring to a boil.
  Add the egg yolks stirring constantly. Let the mixture simmer for one
  hour, do not let it boil.
  
  Combine and heat the onions, carrots and mushrooms. Drain off any
  liquids, arrange vegetables on top of the pheasant. Pour the sauce
  over all and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braised Pheasant Marsala - France
 Categories: Herbs/spice, French, Game, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      1    Tangerine-peeled
      1    Pheasant liver
      4 tb Lard
           Sprig of fennel
      2    Juniper berries-crushed
     12    Mushrooms-diced
      4 tb Butter
      3    Shallots-minced
      1 tb Flour
      2 tb Marsala
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Put the tangerine and liver into the pheasant cavity and lace the
  opening tightly and lard the bird. In a skillet melt the lard and
  roll the pheasant in it, pat it all over, raise the flame and cook
  the bird for fifteen minutes, until brown on all sides. Transfer the
  pheasant to a large casserole and keep hot.
  
  In the fat remaining in the skillet, cook the mushrooms and add them
  to the casserole. In a sauce pan add butter and melt, combine the
  shallots and flour, blend over the low flame but do not brown. Add
  the Marsala, salt and pepper and fennel. Add the sauce to the
  pheasant along with the juniper berries. Cover the casserole and set
  in a preheated 350 oven for thirty five minutes. Serve in the
  casserole.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Orange - France
 Categories: French, Game, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Wine vinegar
           Juice of two oranges and
           -peels
    1/2 c  Gran Marnier
      1 c  Brown sauce
    1/4 c  Orange peel
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  a pinch of salt
  
  Roast the pheasant for about an hour and a half at 350. Combine the
  sugar and vinegar in a sauce pan; heat until sugar melts, add the
  orange juice and reduce over high heat to one fourth the original
  quantity. Add the Gran Marnier and brown sauce, bring to a boil. Cook
  shredded orange peel in water to cover and salt until peel is tender,
  strain and add to the gravy. Remove the pheasant to a hot platter and
  pour the sauce over it and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Godiveali - France
 Categories: French, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Pheasant-ground/boned
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Salt
           Ice or well chilled cream
    3/4 lb Suet
      1 c  Veloute-chilled
    1/4 ts White pepper
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Season the ground pheasant with nutmeg, salt and pepper, pound to a
  paste in a mortar. Pound the suet to a paste and blend together with
  the pheasant. Add well chilled veloute, continue pounding and add the
  eggs one by one without stopping. Run through a sieve. Spread on a
  platter, cover with wax paper and chill over night. Place mixture in
  a bowl and pound again adding the shaved ice or cream. With wet hands
  shape into little balls about the size of a large olive. Poach in
  salted, simmering water for ten minutes and drain. Makes about fifty
  balls.
  
  VELOUTE
  
  Melt four teaspoons of butter in a sauce pan. Add one tablespoon
  minced onion and cook without browning two minutes, add two
  tablespoons of flour and cook until barely golden. Stir in five cups
  of hot chicken broth and continue stirring until thick. Lower heat
  and simmer very slowly for one, to one and a half hours. Use as a
  base for sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poached Pheasant Provencal - France
 Categories: Herbs/spice, French, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-whole
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4    Onion-minced
      8 oz Can tomatoes-peeled/drained
      1 ts Basil leaves
    1/4 ts Thyme leaves
      1    Clove garlic-minced
    1/4 c  Parsley
      1 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 ts Garlic-mashed
      1 c  Onions-chopped
      1 cn Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Rinse pheasant and pat dry with paper towels, sprinkle with salt and
  pepper, inside and out. Put peels of onion, garlic clove and parsley
  inside bird. Tie the legs together with string. In a large casserole
  heat oil and add minced garlic, chopped onion and drained tomatoes.
  Break up tomatoes with a spoon and cook for five minutes. until
  onions are soft. Add tomato liquid, chicken broth, wine, basil, thyme
  and remaining salt and pepper; increase heat and bring to a boil.
  Reduce heat and simmer for fifteen minutes. Place pheasant in sauce,
  breast side up; cover and simmer for one hour, rotating bird in broth
  to prevent drying. Remove bird to a serving dish and skim fat off of
  broth. Carve bird and serve in large soup plates with the broth
  poured on top; sprinkle with the chopped parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant in Red Wine - Germany
 Categories: Game, Aust/german, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Pheasant-whole
      6 tb Butter-soft
           Salt & pepper
      1 c  Red wine
      1 c  Cold water
    1/2    Bay leaf
      2 sl Bacon
      1 c  Mushrooms
      1 tb Flour
    1/3 c  Heavy cream
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Rub pheasant cavity with one tablespoon of the soft butter, salt and
  pepper literally, then truss bird securely.
  
  In a heavy skillet or large dutch oven, heat three tablespoons of
  butter over a low fire, add pheasant and brown on both sides. When
  the pheasant is browned, transfer to a plate. Add a half cup of
  chopped onions and cook until golden brown, then add the wine and
  bring to a boil. Stir in the water, bay leaf, salt and pepper to
  taste. Return the pheasant to the casserole, drape the bacon across
  the breast, cover and simmer for forty five minutes. Remove the bird
  to a warm platter, cover with foil, while you make the sauce.
  
  SAUCE
  
  In a skillet, melt the remaining butter over high heat, do not burn.
  When the foam subsides add the mushrooms and cook for three minutes,
  stirring occasionally. Add the flour and stir for about one minute,
  gradually add the cream until sauce thickens. Taste for seasoning.
  Carve the pheasant into serving pieces, pour the sauce on top and
  serve at once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hungarian Roast Pheasant - Hungary
 Categories: Game, Hungarian, Vegetables, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-whole
      3    Bay leaves
      3    Cloves garlic-minced
      3    Cloves-whole
      3 tb Parsley-chopped
      3 tb Celery leaves
      3    Lemon slices-chopped/seeded
      3    Sheets fat larding pork
           S or 6 onion slices
      6 tb Mushroom peelings
  1 1/2 c  Tokay
      1 c  Chicken stock
           Salt & pepper to taste
      3 tb Red current jelly
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Clean and pluck pheasants. Do not pluck or remove the heads but
  protect them in oiled paper. Reserve the tails to decorate the
  platter. Rub the birds inside and out with salt and pepper, sprinkle
  with a little bit of Tokay.
  
  Inside each pheasant put the bay leaves, garlic, cloves, parsley,
  celery leaves and chopped lemon. Cover each breast with the fat pork
  moistened with a little Tokay. Sew the openings, truss the birds and
  lay them side by side in a medium sized roasting pan. Add onion
  slices, mushroom peelings and moisten with one cup of Tokay and
  chicken stock. Season with salt and ten peppercorns.
  
  Roast in a moderate 350 oven for forty five minutes basting every ten
  minutes. Carve the pheasants, slice the breasts and reshape the birds
  in their natural form on a heated serving platter. Remove the paper
  from the heads and arrange the feathers neatly with the tails.
  
  Strain the pan gravy through a sieve into a saucepan and let it stand
  for a minute until the fat floats on top, skim off the fat, bring to
  a boil and stir in the jelly. Taste for seasoning and pour into a
  sauce boat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Sauerkraut and Tokay - Hungary
 Categories: Fish, Fruit, Alcohol, Herbs/spice, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Pheasants-whole
      1 tb Paprika-Hungarian
      3    Crab apples
      3 tb Onion-grated
      1 ts Parsley-chopped
      1 sm Green pepper-grated
    1/4 ts Chervil
    1/4 ts Garlic-minced
      3    Sheets fat larding pork
      1 tb Anchovy butter
  1 1/2 c  Tokay
      3 lb Sauerkraut
      4    Juniper berries
      2    Cloves-whole
    1/2 ts Caraway seed
      1    Onion-sliced
    1/2 c  Raisins
     12    Peppercorns
    1/2 lb Bacon-cubed
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Clean and wipe pheasants with a cloth soaked in brandy. Let the
  pheasants stand for thirty minutes at room temperature then rub the
  birds inside and out with the salt, pepper and paprika. Put crab
  apples, onions, parsley, celery, green pepper, chervil and garlic
  inside and sew up the opening.
  
  Cover the breast with the sheets of fat pork and brush with the
  anchovy butter. Truss and roast the birds in a moderate 350 oven for
  twenty five minutes or until brown on all sides.
  
  Have ready the sauerkraut which has been marinated overnight in the
  Tokay, juniper berries, cloves, caraway seeds, onion slices, carrots,
  raisins and peppercorns.
  
  Cook the sauerkraut and bacon for about thirty five minutes. Arrange
  the pheasants on the sauerkraut, cover and bake in the oven thirty
  five more minutes or until tender. Add salt and pepper to taste.
  Arrange the sauerkraut on a large heated platter, carve the birds,
  reshape and nest them on the sauerkraut. Serve with a chilled mixture
  of red current and guava jellies.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Porkolt - Hungary
 Categories: Game, Hungarian, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pheasant-disjointed
      3 ts Tomato puree
      1 lg Onion-chopped
      3    Pimentos-diced
      1 tb Paprika
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Sprinkle the pheasant with the salt and pepper and let stand for two
  or three hours. Saute the onions in a little lard or oil and lightly
  brown. Mix in the puree and season with salt and paprika. Then add
  the pheasant, brown on all sides, add a little water and simmer until
  pheasant is tender. Garnish with the sliced and previously cooked
  pimentos.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Warsaw - Poland
 Categories: Vegetables, Game, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Pheasants-whole
      6 oz Vinegar
      6 oz Dry white wine
           1/.2 head red cabbage-leaves
           -only
      2    Onions-sliced
      2 c  Water
           S bay leaves-chopped
      3 tb Pickling spices
      4 tb Ginger-powdered
      4 oz Sugar
      4 tb Oil
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Place all ingredients except cabbage leaves in a large sauce pan. Add
  the water and bring to a boil and simmer twenty minutes. Remove pan
  from stove and add the whole pheasants. Marinate in the refrigerator
  for twenty four hours. Cover birds with the cabbage leaves. Bring to
  a boil, cover and simmer until pheasants are done and tender. This
  recipe should serve about four people.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Beef Brisket, Texas Style *****
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------*INGREDIENTS*----------------------------
           Texas Dry Rub - see recipe
           -in next message
      1 tb Fresh lime juice
  1 1/2 tb Madeira wine
      3 tb Olive oil [use extra-virgin]
      1    Whole beef brisket - 4 to 5
           -pounds
 
  Combine the rub, lime juice, Madeira and olive oil in a blender.
  Process until it becomes a smooth paste.  Or combine the ingredients
  in a small nonreactive bowl and stir into a paste.  Scrape the paste
  from the blender or bowl. With your hands lightly oiled, rub the
  paste into the brisket, coating both sides well.  Cover the brisket
  with clear food wrap and marinate for a minimum of 36 hours in the
  refrigerator. Remove the brisket from the refrigerator and let it sit
  at room temperature (for about 1 hour) before you begin to cook.
  
  TO COOK OUTDOORS, use a covered kettle grill or water smoker.  In a
  kettle grill, indriectly cook the brisket over a water pan containing
  a basting liquid of water, orange juice, wine or something similar
  for about 2 hours per pound, refreshing the coals with damp smoking
  chips every couple of hours.  The brisket should have a dark crust
  when finished. If you are using a water smoker, follw the
  manufacturer's instructions. Remove the brisket from the grill and
  let it stand for 10 minutes before slicing.
  
  TO COOK INDOORS, preheat the oven to 200F.  Put the brisket in a
  roasting pan and place in the center of the oven.  Roast for 2 hours
  per pound, undisturbed. Remove the brisket from the roasting pan and
  let stand for 10 minutes before slicing.  If you like, combine the
  pan juices with some warm barbecue sauce for serving.
  
  To serve, slice the brisket across the grain.  Place overlapping
  slices on a large platter, drizzle with barbecue sauce and garnish
  with grilled red onions rings.
  
  Yield:  10 to 12 servings.
  
  Author's note:  The trick behind a perfectly moist beef brisket is
  slow, even heat or smoke.  If you have a water smoker and access to
  mesquite chips or hard wood, Texas beef brisket takes on added depth.
  But you can get nice results indoors with your own oven.  The Texas
  Dry Rub becomes the basis of a smoky, savory paste.  Serve the
  brisket with your favorite barbecue sauce, a side of coleslaw and a
  garnish of sliced, grilled red onions.
  
  Note from me:  I used this recipe on a 3.25 pound eye of round roast
  and let it marinate in the refrigerator for 72 hours.  It was
  delicious! The rub was very hot, so I rubbed it off the roast before
  slicing so there was no overkill on heat.  We served two sauces on
  the side: homemade BBQ sauce and horseradish sauce. Great with baked
  beans and homegrown tomato salad!
  
  Source: "Marinades" by Jim Tarantino
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Texas Dry Rub *****
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 1 /2
 
MMMMM-----------------------*INGREDIENTS*----------------------------
      3 tb Coarsely cracked black
           -peppercorns
      2 tb Dried oregano
      1 ts Cumin
      1 ts Onion powder
      2    Dried chipolte chili peppers
           -(2 to 3)
      1 tb Dried cilantro leaves
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Ground dried orange peel
      1 tb Chopped dried wild mushrooms
           -(cepes)
 
  Combine all the ingredients in a spice mill or blender and grind to a
  coarse powder.  Store in an airtight jar in the freezer for up to 6
  months.
  
  Yield:  1/2 cup (or 8 tablespoons)
  
  Recommended cuts:  Beef brisket (8 hours to overnight), flank steak
  (6 to 8 hours);l pork ribs (8 hours to overnight).
  
  Author's note:  The secret ingredient here is the dried wild mushroom,
  which lends it a savory muskiness.  The dried chipotles add hints of
  smoke, along with the heat.  Use as a dry rub for beef brisket or
  beef or pork ribs.
  
  Source: Marinades by Jim Tarantino
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corned Beef
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    To 5 pound lean beef brisket
           Into a LARGE plastic bag
           -combine:
  2 1/3 c  Pickling salt
      1 tb Potassium nitrate
      3 tb Pickling spice
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
     12 lg Garlic cloves, crushed
      4 qt Cold water
 
  From Steve Shanker
  
  Mix until dissolved then add brisket and seal bag. Place in cool spot
  for 5 days.  Gently agitate bag once or twice a day.
  
  To cook, bring 10 quart pot of fresh water to a boil and add meat.
  Simmer for about 2 3/4 hours.
  
  Serve hot or chill and eat cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corned Beef
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 qt Hot water
      2 c  Coarse salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Pickling spice
  1 1/2 ts Saltpeter or sodium nitrate,
           -see comment above
           When cool, pour over:
 
  This salted beef actually has nothing to do with corn but got its
  name in Anglo-Saxon times when a granular salt the size of a kernel of
  wheat--"corn," of course, to a Briton--was used to process it.  To
  corn, combine:
  
  A 5-lb. piece of beef:  brisket or tongue which has been placed in a
  deep enameled pot or stoneware jar.
  
  Add:
  
  3 cloves garlic
  
  Weight meat to keep it submerged, and cover pot.
  
  Cure in refrigerator 3 weeks, turning meat every 5 days.
  
  If it is to be stored, wash in lukewarm water, dry thoroughly, then
  wrap in layers of heavy paper and hang in a cool, dry place.
  
  Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; November 18 1992.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Beef Brisket - Melinda Lee
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lb Beef Brisket

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE*------------------------------
      1 c  Red Wine Vinegar
      1 c  Water
      1    Sliced Onion
      2    Cloves Garlic, Chopped
      8    Whole Cloves
      6    Sprigs Parsley
      2    Bay Leaves
      2    Stalks Celery Including
           -Leaves, Chopped
      2    Crushed Juniper Berries Or:
      1 tb Gin (Made From Juniper
           -Berries)
      1 ts Fresh, Thyme, Rosemary,
           -Basil  Or:
    1/2 ts Dried, Thyme, Rosemary,
 
  ~Basil
  
  Prepare marinade and place in a covered dish large enough to hold the
  brisket laying flat.  Place the brisket in the refrigerator and
  marinate with turning every 6 hours for 48 hours.  Remove from
  refrigerator 2 hours before smoking and allow to warm to room
  temperature.  Smoke in smoker set at 190-225 oF for 6 to 7 hours.
  Place marinade in water pan in smoker. From: Melinda Lee, KNX Food
  News Hour, KNX Radio 1070 Los Angeles.  Typed by Syd Bigger.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPECIAL SMOKED RIBS FOR SMOKER
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb To 6 lb pork spareribs
     16 oz Tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Chili powder
      2 ts Paprika
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Celery seed
 
  Cut ribs in 5-6 rib sections and set aside.  Combine remaining
  ingredients in a saucepan and heat until sugar melts and mixture is
  well-blended. Pour mixture over ribs and marinate 5-7 hours.  Remove
  ribs from mixture and place on smoker grid or in a rib rack on the
  grid. Brush with mixture once again before smoking.
  
  If you are using a double grid smoker, the ribs on the top grid will
  cook faster.
  
  CHARCOAL:  Use 7-8 lbs. of charcoal, 4 quarts hot water, 3 wood
  sticks and smoke 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 hours.
  
  ELECTRIC:  Use 3-4 quarts hot water, 3 wood sticks, and smoke 2 1/2
  to 3 1/2 hours.
  
  GAS:       Use 4 quarts hot water, 3 wood sticks, and smoke 2 1/2 to
  3 1/2 hours.
  
  Source:  "Cook'n Ca'Jun Water Smoker Cookbook" From: Debbie Carlson -
  Cooking Echo
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Super Smoking Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------*INGREDIENTS*----------------------------
      1 lb Margarine - corn oil type
    2/3 c  Sherry - or red wine (I'd
           -use chicken broth as a
           Substitute if you're
           -avoiding alcohol, with
           Perhaps a dash of balsamic
           -or red wine vinegar)
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2    Clove garlic - finely
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Parsley - chopped
      2 ts Salt
      1 c  Water
 
  Combine all ingredients in heavy saucepan and bring to a boil. Lower
  heat and simmer for 30 minutes.  Paint on meat surfaces before, once
  during and at the end of smoking.  Keeps indefinitely refrigerated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ultimate Smoked Turkey
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------*INGREDIENTS*----------------------------
      1    Turkey - 8 to 10 pounds
      1 md Onion
      2    Bay leaves
    1/2 c  White wine
           Super Smoking Sauce - (see
           -recipe)
 
  Rinse turkey, pat dry and rub liberally with oil (we'd rub it with
  Liquid Smoke instead).  Place onion, bay leaves and wine in water pan
  with hot water (we'd add a few sticks of celery and a few cloves of
  garlic). Place water pan in smoker and turkey on grid (it won't hurt
  to put a quartered onion, a few stalks of celery and a bay leaf
  inside the turkey; we also sometimes mix freshly ground black pepper,
  a bit of salt and some crushed thyme together and after loosening the
  breast skin with your hands, push this mix up under the skin and
  spread over the breast of the turkey). Place dome on smoker and do
  not remove until midway through cooking time. Then remove dome and
  liberally paint turkey with Super Smoking Sauce. Replace dome and
  continue smoking.  When turkey is done, liberally paint again and
  allow to smoke for 15 minutes more.
  
  Yield:  8 to 10 servings.
  
  Charcoal:  Use 10 pounds charcoal, 5 quarts hot water, 3 wood sticks
  (we use about 5 to 8 presoaked wood blocks) and smoke 4 to 6 hours.
  Electric: Use 4 quarts hot water, 3 wood sticks and smoke 4 to 6
  hours.
  
  Add water to water pan after about 4 hours or as needed (you can tell
  when smoker needs water by the sizzling sound it will make).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jamaican Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Chickens, split
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
      2 tb Cider vinegar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 c  Minced onion
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      2 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Wash and dry chickens.  Combine the remaining ingredients in a bowl
  and marinate chickens for 3 to 4 hours in this mixture.  Remove
  chickens from marinade and place on smoker grid.  Brush with marinade
  sauce before cooking and just before serving.  (I don't think this
  part is right. It would be like eating raw chicken.  I would cook it
  for a while.)
  
  From: Brinkmann Owner's Guide Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Seasonings
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Onion
      1 ts Red Pepper - ground
      1 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Oregano
           Cajun Seasoning for Chicken
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Onion Powder
    1/4 ts Sage - ground
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
    1/4 ts White Pepper
      1 pn Red Pepper
 
  Cajun Seasoning for Fish
  
  I like the fish one best - it is hot!  Beware the fumes, they can
  clear your sinuses instantly! Try with swordfish - outstanding!
  Butter the pan, Rub lots of spice on the fish and smoke it - about
  2-3 min each side til black. WOW!! Enjoy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MINT JELLY  %%%%%
 Categories: Dips/spread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Baking apples
  2 1/2 c  Water
           About 4 cups sugar
           About 3 tbsp vinegar
    1/3 c  Chopped mint
 
  This recipe keeps well.
  
  RECIPE #1 green food coloring
  
  Wash the apples, cut into pieces, do not core or peel.  Add water and
  simmer slowly until the mixture becomes a thick pulp. Strain through
  jelly bag. Measure juice and allow 2 cups sugar to each 2-1/2 cups
  juice. This recipe should produce nearly 5 cups juice. Stir over low
  heat until sugar has dissolved, then boil rapidly until setting point
  is reached. Stir in the vinegar, mint, and a few drops of green food
  coloring. Cool slightly, stir to distribute the mint, then put into
  hot sterile jars. Cover, seal, and store.
  
  Excellent when served with roast lamb.
  
  Origin: Marguerite Patten's recipe cards Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mint Jelly
 Categories: Dips/spread, Can/preserv
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Mint leaves
           Green coloring
  3 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Commercial pectin (I use a
           -box of powdered, mixed as
           -directed)
 
  Combine vinegar, water, mint leaves, and enough coloring to give tint
  desired.  Add sugar, stir, and bring to a boil.  Add pectin at once,
  stirring constantly, and bring again to a full boil for 1/2 minute.
  Strain off mint leaves and pour into glasses.  When cold, cover with
  paraffin. * I water bath the jars for 5 minutes. Approximate yield: 6
  (6 oz.) glasses
  
  From: America's Cook Book Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Relish
 Categories: Vegetables, Relishes, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 2 servings
 
     15 oz Black Beans; Canned, *
    3/4 c  Tomato; Finely Chopped,1 med
      1    Serrano Chile; **
    1/2 c  Red Bell Pepper; Chopped
    1/4 c  Red Onion; Finely Chopped
      2 tb White Wine Vinegar
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  *    Black beans should be canned and they should be rinsed and
  drained. ** Serrano chile should be seeded and finely chopped.
  
  Mix all ingredients.  Cover and refrigerate until chilled, about 1
  hour. Makes about 2 1/2 cups relish.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Salsa
 Categories: Vegetables, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Dried black beans picked
           -over and rinsed OR
      2    16 oz cans drained
           -and rinsed.
    1/2    Bay leaf
      1    Clv. garlic PLUS 1/2 tsp
           -minced garlic
      2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
           Salt
    1/3 c  Finely diced onion
      1 lg Tomato, seeded and diced
    1/3 c  Finely diced radishes
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      1 tb Fresh lime juice
      1 ts Minced jalapeno or serrano
           -chile
 
  Soak driedbeans in water to comer by 2 inches in large saucepan
  overnight. (to quick-soak; combine beans with water to cover by 2
  inches in large saucepan and bring to boil; boil 2 minutes.  Cover
  and let stand 1 hour. Drain; cover with fresh water and bring to
  boil.  Add bay leaf, 1 clove of garlic, the cumin and pepper flakes.
  Reduce heat and simmer until beans are tender, 1 to 1 1/4 hours.
  Remove from heat and stir in 2 teaspoons of salt.  Cool in liquid.
  Drain beans, discarding liquid, garlic and bay leaf.
  
  Rinse onion in mesh sieve under cold water; drain and pat dry.
  Combine onion, drained cooded or canned beans, 1/2 tsp. minced
  garlic, 1/4 tsp. salt, tomato radishes, cilantro, lime juice and
  chile.  Makes 4 cups.
  
  Source:  Ladie's Home Journal  7/93 Shared by: Marie Culver
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean-Corn Salad with Cilantro Vinaigrette
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 ga Black Beans (Tender!)
    1/2 ga Corn Kernals, Blanched
      1 ea Red Bell Pepper, diced 1/4"
      4 bn Scallions, white part only,
           -cut 1"
      4 ea Green Jalapenos, sliced
    1/2 bn Cilantro Leaves, whole
           Vinaigrette:
      3 ea Shallots, minced
      1 c  White Wine Vinegar
      2 c  Corn Oil
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Fresh Ground Black Pepper
      1 tb Ground Cumin
      1 ts Cayenne
 
  Salad:
  
  Whisk together all ingredients by hand. To assemble salad, toss
  together beans, corn, bell pepper, scallions and cilantro and add 12
  oz. of vinaigrette. Garnish with sliced jalapenos.
  
  This delicious salad comes from a local restaurant here in
  Minneapolis, called Tejas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jade and Ruby Stir-Fry
 Categories: Wok, Poultry, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Whole chicken breast,
           -skinned and boned
      1 lb Fresh broccoli, trimmed
      2 tb Vegetable oil, divided
      1 md Onion, chunked
      2 tb Water
      2 md Red bell peppers, cored,
           -seeded, and chunked
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, cleaned and
           -quartered
    1/3 c  KIKKOMAN Stir-Fry Sauce
    1/4 ts Red pepper, crushed
 
  Cut the chicken breast into 1-inch squares and the broccoli flowerets
  into bite-size pieces.  Peel the broccoli stalks and cut crosswise
  into 1/4 inch thick slices.
  
  In a hot wok or large skillet over high heat, heat the oil.  Add the
  chicken and stir-fry for 1 minute.  Add the broccoli and onion and
  stir-fry for 1 minute.  Add the water, cover, and cook for 2 minutes,
  stirring once. Add the red bell peppers and mushrooms.  Stir-fry for
  2 minutes. Stir in the stir-fry sauce and crushed red pepper.  Cook,
  stirring, until the chicken and vegetables are coated with sauce.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Western's Sweet 'N' Sour Stir-Fry Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Wok, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Original, lite or fat free
           -Western French Dressing
      1 cn Crushed pineapple, undrained
           -(8 oz)
      1 tb Lite soy sauce
      1 lb Boneless, skinless chicken
           -pieces, cut into strips
      1 tb Oil
      1 lg Green pepper, seeded and cut
           -into chunks
      1 bn Green onions, thinly sliced
      1 ea Apple, cored and cut into
           -chunks (Rome Beauty apple)
           Cooked rice
 
  Combine Western dressing, pineapple with juice, and soy sauce; set
  aside. Cook chicken strips in oil over high heat, stirring
  constantly, until no longer pink. Add green pepper and cook for 1
  minute. Stir in dressing mixture and heat. Stir in green onions and
  apple, but do not cook. Serve over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Noodles with Fresh Vegetables
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Whole wheat or buckwheat
           -noodles
      4 c  To 6 c vegetables: peppers,
           -asparagus, broccoli,
           -zucchini, snow peas,
           Cauliflower, carrot
           -(whatever you are allowed)
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Steam vegetables briefly until tender-crisp.  Combine with hot
  noodles and olive oil.
  
  Origin: Yeast Free Feast. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Oct/94.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yeast Free Split Pea Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Onion, chopped
      1    Clove fresh garlic, minced,
           -or 1 tsp bottled
      1 ts Ground cumin
      2 c  Uncooked split peas
      2 qt Water
      2    Carrots, sliced
      2    Stalks celery, chopped
      1    Unpeeled potato, diced
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Heat oil in a large soup pot.  Add onion, garlic, cumin.  Saute 1
  minute. Add peas, and stir until coated.  Add water, bring to a boil,
  reduce heat. Cover, and simmer 1 hour.  Add remaining ingredients,
  and continue cooking 20-30 minutes, or until vegetables are tender.
  This soup really thickens overnight in the refrigerator.  The taste
  is enhanced as well.
  
  Origin: Yeast Free Living Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Oct/94.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flavourings for Soy Bean Milk
 Categories: Allergy
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Lime juice
      1 tb Molasses
      1 tb Honey
    3/4 c  Frozen raspberries
      2 tb Fruit syrup
      2 tb Maply syrup
      2    Tbps malt syrup
      1 pn Salt
      2 ts Vanilla
      1    Banana (blended)
 
  To improve the flavor of soy milk, one of more of the follolwing may
  be added to one cup;
  
  chocolate syrup to taste
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Bacon and Red Pepper Spaghetti Sauce
 Categories: Allergy, Meats, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 sl Bacon, diced
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Tiny red hot pepper
    1/2 ts Oregano
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Grated cheese
           Salt and pepper to taste
      4 tb Melted butter
 
  rice vermicelli, spaghetti
  
  Fry bacon with oil, whole red pepper and oregano until bacon is brown.
  Remove pepper pod.  Place large serving bowl over hot (not boiling)
  water. Beat eggs in this bowl until foamy.  Add the cheesse, salt and
  pepper. Mix well, then stir in butter, bacon and oil.  Add well
  drained (cooked) vermicelli (or spaghetti if not on gluten and wheat
  free diet) to bacon mixture.  Toss well and serve with addtional
  grated cheese.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Flour Mayonnaise for those with Allergies.
 Categories: Allergy, Condiments, Potatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Potato flour
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 c  Cold water
    3/4 c  Boiling water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb White vinegar
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
           Salt and pepper
 
  Mix the dry ingredients in saucepan, then stir in the cold water,
  mixing well.  Add boiling water and cook until the mixture is just
  clear.  Cool to lukewarm, then gradually add remaining ingredients,
  beating constantly.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meat and Poultry Stuffing for those with Allergies
 Categories: Allergy, Dress/stuff, Poultry, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     24    Rye crackers
    3/4 c  Hot meat stock
    1/4 c  Butter or milk free
           -margarine
    1/4 c  Finely cut celery
      2 tb Finely cut parsley
      2 tb Finely cut green pepper
      2 tb Finely cut onion
    1/2 ts Poulty seasoning
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Break crackers into small pieces.  Soak in hot stock.  Add remaining
  ingredients.  Mix well.  Stuff bird or place in greased casserole and
  bake for about 30 minutes or until browned, at 325F
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homemade Tomato Sauce for those with Allergies
 Categories: Allergy, Tasteofhome, Salsa/sauce, Tomatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Canned tomatoes
      2    Stalks celery, diced
      1    Smll onion, diced
      1 c  Green pepper, chopped
      2 tb Ketchup
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Vinegar
 
  Add the celery, onions, pepper and the tomatoes, and simmer for about
  10 minutes.  Add the ketchup, sugar and vinegar.  Simmer until the
  vegetables are cooked through.  This sauce may be thickened with a
  gluten free flour, if desired.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Homemade White Sauces for those with allergies
 Categories: Allergy, Salsa/sauce, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Milk free margarine
  1 1/2 ts Potato starch or any other
           -gluten free starch
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Soybean milk
      1 ts Dried parsley
 
  %%%%%  WHITE SAUCE #1  %%%%%
  
  Melt the margarine in saucepan.  Add starch and salt and stir until
  well mixed.  Add milk and parsley and continue stirring until mixture
  thickens.
  
  %%%%%  WHITE SAUCE #2  %%%%%
  
  1 tbsp milk free margarine 1 cup cold water or stock 1 1/2 tbsp
  gluten free flour (your choice)
  
  Melt margarine. Shake the flour and water together and pout into pan
  with melted margarine.  Cook and stir until thickened.
  
  %%%%%  WHITE SAUCE #3  %%%%%
  
  1 tbsp butter 1 tbsp potato flour 1 cup milk salt to taste
  
  Melt butter and add potato flour stirring until well blended.  Slowly
  add the milk, stirring constantly until well blended.  Cook slowly
  until thick. If a thicker sauce is desired, increase butter and
  potato flour to 2 tbsp each.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allergy Wine Spaghetti Sauce
 Categories: Allergy, Pasta, Alcohol, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
           Celery
           Green pepper
           Zucchini squash
           Water
    1/4 c  To 1/2 c dry wine
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 tb Paprika
 
  Place a little salt in the fry pan and fry ground beef - no oil is
  necessry.  Drain off all fat.  Add chopped vegetables. (Amount may be
  adjusted to personal preferences)  Add enough water to cover, then the
  wine, thyme and paprika.  Simmer for about an hour.  Add more water if
  necessary.  Thicken if desired with desired flour.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Book. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yeast Free Bread
 Categories: Allergy, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Whole wheat flour
      2 tb Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Wheat germ
      2 tb Oil
      2 c  Milk or water
 
  Mix the dry ingredients together.  Mix wet ingredients.  Add together
  and mix well.  Place on floured board and knead 3-4 times.  Shape
  into loaf and put in greased bread tin.  Bake at 400 F for 10
  minutes, then lower oven to 325 F and bake 1 hour longer.
  
  Origin: The Allergy Cookbook Shared by: Sharon Stevens, July/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Pizza Dough (for grilling)
 Categories: Pizza, Breads
      Yield: 19 oz dough
 
      2 c  (to 2-1/2) Bread flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 c  +2 Tablespoons warm water
           -(115 degrees Fahrenheit)
      1 x  (envelope) Active dry yeast
 
  Place 2 cups of the flour in the bowl of a food processor.  (If you
  don't have a food processor, follow the same steps, but use a bowl
  and a spoon to mix the dough.)
  
  In a small, separate bowl, blend the yeast with the warm water and 1
  tablespoon of flour.  Let the mixture stand about 5 minutes to proof
  the yeast.  When it bubbles and foams, pour the yeast mixture through
  the feed tube into the food processor with the machine running.  Add
  the olive oil and salt, then incorporate more flour if necessary,
  until the dough pulls away from the side of the bowl and forms a ball.
  
  Remove the dough from the processor and place it on a floured work
  surface. Knead the dough for several minutes, working in flour as
  necessary, until the dough is smooth and elastic and no longer
  sticky. Shape the dough into a ball and place it in a deep floured
  bowl. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap then set it in a warm,
  draft-free spot to rise.
  
  After two hours, the dough can be rolled.  For chewier pizzeria-style
  crusts, however, the dough should be punched down and allowed to rest
  an additional four hours.  The aged or retarded dough can be used
  immediateloy or placed in the refrigerator for use the following day.
  Let chilled dough return to room temperature before rolling it.
  
  Turn the rested dough onto a floured board and press it into a flat
  circle with your finger.  Do not knead the dough again before rolling
  it. Shape, top and bake the dough according to the instructions
  provided in the pizza recipe you'll be using.
  
  NOTE: The following analysis is based on the whole dough recipe.
  
  Nutritional Analysis Per Crust:  1,188 CALORIES; 18.3g FAT; (2.5g
  saturated fat, 14 percent calories from fat); 0mg CHOLESTEROL;
  2,138mg SODIUM.
  
  Recipe by Chef Carl Oshinsky, author of "What Your Mother Never
  Taught You, the Pizza Gourmet Will" (The Pizza Gourmet, $24.95), as
  seen in THE OLYMPIAN, 6/28/95.
  
  Typed by Iris Grayson
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Pizzas
 Categories: Pizza
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Basic Pizza Dough
        x  Olive oil for brushing
      2 tb Fresh basil pesto
      4 oz Bel Paese cheese, sliced,
           -or other soft cheese, such
           -as Muenster or fontina
     12 ea Oil-packed, sun-dried
           -tomatoes, drained
      2 tb Thick tomato sauce
      4 oz Low-moisture part-skim
           -mozzarella cheese, diced
     12 ea Black olives, pitted/halves
        x  Fresh grated Parmesan cheese
           -for garnish
 
  Preheat a grill or outdoor barbecue.
  
  Divide the pizza dough in half and roll each half into a 6-inch
  circle. Brush the pizzas with olive oil, then place them, oiled side
  down, on a hot grill.  Cook the pizzas until the dough firms up and
  the first side is scored with grill marks; watch the pizzas carefully
  so that they don't burn.  Brush the other side with olive oil then
  turn the pizzas.
  
  Brush pesto on one of the pizzas and top with Bel Paese cheese or
  Muenster or fontina and sun-dried tomatoes.  Spread tomato sauce on
  the other pizza, then add mozzarella and black olives.  Remove the
  pizzas from the grill and place them on serving plates.  Brush the
  edges with olive oil; dust with Romano cheese and serve.
  
  Nutritional Analysis per serving with pesto:  1,150 CALORIES; 71.2g
  FAT (28.1g saturated fat, 56 percent calories from fat); 120mg
  CHOLESTEROL; 1,837mg SODIUM.
  
  Nutritional Analysis per serving with tomato, mozzarella and black
  olives: 845 CALORIES; 41.8g FAT (15.2g saturated fat; 44 percent
  calories from fat); 67mg CHOLESTEROL; 1,754mg SODIUM.
  
  Recipe from Chef Carl Oshinsky, as seen in THE OLYMPIAN, 6/28/95.
  
  Typed by Iris Grayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cracker Salad
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1    Stack of saltine crackers
      1 c  Chopped bermuda onion
      1 c  Sweet pickles, chopped
      1 md Green pepper, chopped
      1 sm Jar of pimentos, drained
      5    Hard boiled eggs, chopped
      1 pt Mayonnaise
 
  Crush crackers and put in a large mixing bowl.  Add all ingredients
  and mix well.  This salad tastes best if put in a covered plastic
  container and chilled for a few hours prior to serving. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bean Bundles
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 3 servings
 
 
  Drain 1 can of whole green beans.  Make 4 bundles using 1 strip of
  half cooked bacon per bundle.  Secure the wrapped bundles with
  toothpicks. Put bundles in a baking pan and put a small cube of
  Velveeta cheese on top. Spoon 1 tablespoon of Durkee's famous sauce
  over the cheese. Bake at 350 degrees for 10 to 15 minutes. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Broccoli
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 tb Salad oil
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Sesame seeds, toasted
      1 tb Soy sauce
      4 ts Sugar
 
  Cook 1 pound of fresh broccoli in a small amount of boiling, salted
  water until tender, about 15 minutes; drain.  Set aside. In a
  saucepan, combine the aforementioned ingredients.  Heat to boiling,
  pour over broccoli. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant Pot Pie - England
 Categories: British isl, Vegetables, Game, Meats, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  Keywords: Pheasants Forever, Pot pies, Potato, SJK From
  : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING Cut pheasant,
  which has been hung for four days, into serving pieces and remove
  skin. Parboil the pheasant for twenty minutes, in just enough water
  to cover the bird. Add a small onion thinly sliced, one bay leaf, two
  cloves, one spring of thyme, one carrot thinly sliced and salt and
  pepper to taste. Remove the pheasant pieces and reduce the stock over
  a hot fire to one half its original quantity. Make twice as much
  biscuit dough reserving half to make a fairly thick crust for the pie
  and cutting the rest into small rectangles. Butter a deep dish and
  line it with the slices of lean and trimmed ham. Arrange the pieces
  of pheasant in the dish scattering among them the rectangles of
  biscuit dough, four potatoes diced and a half pound of cooked button
  
  mushrooms. Pour the reduced stock and two tablespoons of Madeira Wine
  over the filling and add a bay leaf. Dot with butter and flour and
  cover the pie with the biscuit dough, cutting a few slots in the
  crust. Bake for one hour in a preheated 350 oven and serve hot with
  wine jelly and lemon slices.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Sauerkraut - France
 Categories: French, Game, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS, THU 06---------------------
           Wash and dry the sauerkraut
           -and bear in mind that when
           -it is specially prepared to
           -accompany a pheasant it is
           -improved by being braised
           -with foie de gras fat
 
  Roast a tender pheasant and just barely cook it. Lay the well drained
  sauerkraut on a platter, set the pheasant on it and surround it with a
  boarder of bacon cooked in the sauerkraut.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Saute of Pheasant - France
 Categories: French, Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Unless it is prepared with the greatest of care, this dish will be
  very dry. It is not generally recommended, but care should be
  observed in selecting a young, plump pheasant. It should be cut up
  like any foul, cooked in butter on a moderate fire and keep somewhat
  underdone. Cook it in the same manner as "Chicken Saute" and cover
  it. Wash the sauce pan and prepare a sauce after the recipe in common
  use. This sauce must be rich and should be poured over the pheasant
  just before serving.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant a la Croix de Berny - France
 Categories: French, Game, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------KEYWORDS: TRUFFLES--------------------------
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Roast the pheasant and keep it just underdone. When quite cold lift
  out the breast and leave the legs and wings attached to the bird. By
  means of scissors, completely bone the bird; garnish it inside with a
  truffled foie gras Parfait and cover it with a thin coat of foie gras
  Mousse. Replace the breast upon this Mousse, after having sliced
  them, and fill any gap that exist between the slices with some of the
  same Mousse, thus, reconstructing the bird. Let the Mousse set
  thoroughly and glaze with aspic jelly.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Breast of Pheasant Berchoux - France
 Categories: Alcohol, French, Game, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------KEYWORDS: TRUFFLES--------------------------

MMMMM----------------FROM : SALLIE KREBS, THU 06---------------------
           Remove the breast from two
           -pheasants and split the
           -birds without
           Separating. Prepare a
           -stuffing from the
           -trimmings, the pheasant
           -liver and
           An equal amount of fried
           -bread crumbs flavored with
           -a tablespoon of black
           Truffles. Spread the breast
           -with the stuffing,fold the
           -breasts, secure the
           Opening with a toothpick
           -and place them in a heavy
           -skillet, with one
        tb Of butter and a scant
           -quarter cup of chicken
           -broth. Cover with
           Buttered paper and simmer
           -for fifteen minutes. Turn
           -the breasts only once
           During the cooking.
           -Sprinkle with brandy and
           -lemon juice and serve with
           -a
           Saint Florentine Sauce.
 
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant in Vine Leaves - Poland
 Categories: Game, Polish, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Wrap pheasant pieces, (which have been seasoned) in vine leaves, tie
  them with string. Place the pheasant pieces in an earthenware
  casserole or sauce pan closely packed with a quarter pound of butter,
  one tablespoon of flour and a little more seasoning. Cover tightly
  and seal the lid with a bond of paste. Place casserole in a preheated
  350 oven for thirty or forty minutes, do not uncover until ready to
  serve. A potato puree is generally eaten with this dish.
  
  Submitted By SALLIE KREBS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Art of Smoking - Part 1
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------SMOKING BUTCHERS MEAT------------------------
           Almost all meats may be
           -successfully cooked in the
           -smoke oven
           With the full smoke
           -treatment or, if
           -preferred, with little or
           -no
           Smoke. Some cuts will turn
           -out better if they are
           -cured before
           Smoking.
           Correctly used, the smoke
           -oven will produce
           -better-tasting
           Meals++even from the
           -cheaper kinds of
           -meat++then will
           -conventional
           Oven-roasting.

MMMMM---------------------NO SMOKE ROASTING--------------------------
 
  The smoke oven may be used for plain roasting simply by omitting to
  place any hardwood chips or sawdust on the charcoal or other heat
  source. Meat cooked in this way will turn out moist and succulent.
  The ordinary kitchen oven applies a dry heat and consequently tends
  to dehydrate meat or any other food that is cooked in it. But through
  the smoke oven there passes a constant current of fresh air, which
  contains a certain amount of moisture, more or less, according to
  local climatic conditions. The meat is being cooked in hot, moist
  air, and therefore tends to retain more of its original water content
  than if it were roasted in the conventional dry-heat oven. It should
  be remembered, then, that most of the following recipes can be
  varied, according to taste, by omitting the smoke treatment, but
  otherwise proceeding as recommended. Oven Temperatures: Long
  experience with the smoke oven indicates that the best results are
  generally obtained with temperatures not over 250 F. At these
  moderate temperatures, cooking is rather slow and moist, and all the
  better for that, since it heightens succulence and flavor. It is
  recommended, then, that no attempt be made to speed up the
  smoke-cooking process by overheating the oven. A Useful Precaution:
  If the oven is hot enough to cook a meat loaf or roast, there will be
  a tendency for grease to drip from the meat.  If this grease falls on
  the smoke baffle, it accumulates there until the oven door is opened
  and fresh air is admitted, when it flares up, with possibly dangerous
  results. There are two ways to avoid this risk. Six inches below the
  oven rack that supports the meat, place a shallow pan, or a tray
  improvised by bending up the edges of a sheet of aluminum foil. The
  grease from this pan can be salvaged for use in other cooking
  operations. Its light smoke flavor will give an interesting touch to
  other dishes that have not been cooked in the smoke oven at all! Make
  two additional baffles of sheet metal or aluminum foil, pierced with
  plenty of holes. Mount one of them two or three inches above the main
  baffle, so that it catches the drippings. When grease begins to build
  up on this baffle, remove it and put the spare one in its place. How
  Much Is Enough?: There can be no cast-iron rules about how long meat
  should be smoked, because tastes differ so widely. Wherever it can be
  used, the best guide is a meat thermometer.  Stick it into the
  thickest part of the meat, avoiding contact with the bone, and
  continue smoking until the thermometer indicates the desired degree
  of doneness. Bear in mind that many smoke-roasted meats tend to be
  rather more red than meat cooked in an ordinary oven to an equivalent
  degree of doneness, especially around the bone and joints.  Do not be
  misled by this redness, but be guided by reading the meat
  thermometer. Pork, by the way, does not show this redness around the
  bone and joints. Some cuts, such as spareribs and chops, are not big
  enough to hold the meat thermometer. A test for these is to cut
  through a fleshy section and see how much red meat shows at the
  center, making due allowance for the expected additional redness of
  smoke-cooked meat. Of course, if meat has been cured, it will stay
  red, like a ham, when cooked, whether it is pork or any other kind of
  meat. Pork, as a precaution against trichinosis, should always be
  cooked until the thermometer shows Well Done, unless it has
  previously been frozen for 21 days at 0 F. The flavor of the finished
  meat is easily controlled.  For maximum smoke flavor, give a period
  of cold-smoking at 75 to 85 F, then heat the oven to cooking
  temperature until the meat is done to taste. The longer the
  preliminary cold-smoking, the stronger will be the smoke flavor.
  Times given in the following recipes will suit the average palate,
  but they may be extended if desired. For a mild smoke flavor, preheat
  the oven to 200 to 225 F so that the meat begins to cook at once, and
  remains in the smoke for a shorter time. Continued in part 2
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DENISE LANGLOIS  SUBJ HELP! - NEW SMOKER GRILL
    On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Art Of Smoking - Part 2
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           (Continued from Part 1)

MMMMM--------------------------BASTING-------------------------------
 
  Meat that contains too little fat will require special treatment
  while it is being cooked.  If a piece of meat obviously is short of
  fat, baste it with butter or cooking oil.  Alternatively, one or two
  strips of fatty bacon may be laid on top of the meat. If such low-fat
  meat is being used for making rolled roasts, insert a strip of bacon,
  or some beef suet, into the roast as it is being rolled. Storage Of
  Smoked Meats: All cured and smoked meats++except for thoroughly dried
  jerky++ should be stored at 35 F or frozen.  The larger the piece of
  meat, as a general rule, the longer it will keep in good condition.
  The smaller the pieces into which the meat has been cut or minced,
  the more rapidly it will deteriorate. On the other hand, the larger
  the piece of meat, the longer it takes to cure and to smoke.  With a
  very large cut, the full smoke flavor may not penetrate to the
  center. These two factors should be balanced, according to what is
  required in each instance.  If time for curing and smoking is short,
  cut up the meat smaller.  If there is plenty of time for processing,
  and long storage-life is desired, leave it in large pieces. This
  principle should be applied, where necessary, to modify the times for
  curing and smoking recommended in the following pages. Plain Smoked
  Meats: Many of the better, more tender cuts of meat may be
  smoke-roasted with no further preparation than a liberal use of Basic
  Seasoning. Sprinkle plenty of the seasoning on all sides of the meat.
  With rolled roast, the seasoning can be applied before the meat is
  rolled. Beef, Lamb, Pork Roasts: Apply Basic Seasoning liberally.
  Preheat the smoke oven to 200 to 225 F, insert a meat thermometer
  into the roast, and cook until done to taste. Steak: Preheat the oven
  to 200 to 225 F.  Liberally apply Basic Seasoning, and cook the
  steaks until done to taste, turning them over about half-way through.
  Steak will not take long to cook, so they will have just a subtle
  smoke flavor, but they will be moist and delicious. Pork Chops or
  Spareribs: Apply Basic Seasoning and cold-smoke at 25 to 85 F for
  1-1/2 to 2 hours. This process should not be hurried.  For a stronger
  flavor, cold-smoke for 2 to 4 hours. Raise the oven temperature to
  250 F and cook until the meat is thoroughly done, when chops will be
  gray throughout, and ribs will peel apart easily. If the smoke oven
  cannot attain this temperature, the second stage may be done in an
  ordinary cookstove. Spareribs and Sauerkraut: Season and cold-smoke
  the spareribs as indicated in the first phase of the previous recipe.
  Note that this part of the process can be done well in advance,
  making, if desired, enough for several meals. Under ordinary
  refrigeration, these cold-smoked ribs will keep for 3 to 4 weeks;
  frozen, they will keep 2 to 3 months. Take the sauerkraut-fresh, or a
  good grade of canned sauerkraut-spread it out evenly in a large,
  shallow baking pan, and arrange the smoked ribs on top, spreading
  them so that they are not piled on top of each other.  Do not cover
  the pan. Heat the smoke oven to 250 F and cook until the ribs attain
  the desired crispmess. Turn the ribs two or three times during the
  cooking. The drippings from the ribs will give the kraut an
  exceptionally fine flavor. Instead of using the smoke oven, an
  ordinary oven can be used, its temperature regulated to 350 F. But
  watch the sauerkraut during cooking, and if it begins to dry out,
  pour some water on it, avoiding wetting the ribs. One pound per
  person will not be too much of this recipe! Hamburgers: Mix ground
  meat with Basic Seasoning, and form into patties of the desired size.
  Place these on a wire mesh rack, above the drip pan, in an oven
  preheated to 200 to 225 F. Have plenty of smoke, since the hamburgers
  will only be exposed to it for about 30 minutes. Watch how the
  patties react to the heat.  If the edges turn up, as sometimes
  happens, leave them alone until they are done; the slightly dished
  shape tends to hold melting fat, and keep the meat more succulent.
  With some grades of ground meat, the patties remain flat. Then there
  can be no objection to turning them over about half-way through. For
  cheeseburgers, place the cheese slices on top of the meat patties
  about half-way through the cooking process. Much can be done to vary
  and enhance the flavor of the finished hamburger by suitable
  treatment of the buns.  To warm the buns, first slice them in half
  and butter both halves, so they will be moist. Put them in a kraft
  paper bag with a little water, and put in the smoke oven with the
  meat is about half-cooked. If there is no room in the smoke oven, put
  them in the kitchen oven at 225 F. For cheeseburgers, a well-warmed
  bun helps to melt the cheese. And, for a richer flavor, expose the
  sliced, buttered buns directly to the smoke. Chopped or minced onion,
  warmed in the smoke oven, may be added to the hamburger before
  serving, or sliced onion may be served with other relishes-mustard,
  ketchup, etc. Continued in Part 3
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DENISE LANGLOIS  SUBJ HELP! - NEW SMOKER GRILL
    On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Art of Smoking - Part 3
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------SMOKED POULTRY AND GAME BIRD---------------------
           Birds are easy to smoke.
           -They require little
           -preparation, and
           There is no difficulty in
           -judging when they are
           -ready to eat.
           They are delicious eaten
           -hot from the oven or, with
           -minimal care,
           They can be refrigerated or
           -frozen and kept in perfect
           -condition
           Until required.

MMMMM--------------------------CHICKEN-------------------------------
 
  For those who can raise their own chickens, the ideal size for
  smoke-roasting is 4 to 6 pounds dressed weight.  If chickens are
  purchased, whole-bodied or split fryers are best, although cut-up
  chicken can be used. Splitting: Stand the fryer on the cutting block,
  head-end down, tail in the air, with its breast turned away from the
  cutting hand. With a heavy knife, cut right down the back, and spread
  the carcass open. Do not turn the bird around.  Cut right down the
  breastbone, splitting the fryer cleanly in halves.  This cut is easy
  with a strong, really sharp knife. Seasoning: Liberally sprinkle both
  sides of each half with Basic seasoning. If the skin is so dry that
  the seasoning will not adhere, moisten it with water before applying
  the seasoning. Smoking: The smoke oven should be heated to a
  temperture between 200 F and 225 F before the chicken is inserted.
  Lay the halves skin-side down on the racks. Examine the skin from
  time to time. When it is light amber, baste the chicken halves with
  butter and turn them over. Leave the halves skin-side up, and baste
  twice more with butter until the skin is a rich, golden amber color.
  Towards the end of the smoking process, occasionally give the leg
  bone a gentle twist. When the bone turns easily in its socket, the
  chicken is properly cooked. This is an infallible test.  Even if
  there is still a slight redness in the joint, the bird is now in
  ideal condition for eating. Use of an Ordinary Oven: Some smoke ovens
  may not get hot enough to cook chicken properly. Then leave the
  fryers in the smoke oven, basting and turning as already described,
  until the skin is fully colored, by which time the meat is partially
  cooked, and the smoke flavor is absorbed. Transfer the birds to the
  kitchen oven, set it at 350 F and cook until the leg bone turns
  easily in the socket. For this finishing-off process, the bird should
  be enclosed in a covered roaster, or carefully wrapped in metal foil
  with the edges well crimped. These precautions will help to conserve
  moisture++an advantage of smoke cooking that should not be thrown
  away. As an additional precaution against drying out, a tablespoon of
  water may be added to the foil package or roaster. A covered roaster
  is the more convenient, since foil wrapping hinders use of the
  leg-twisting test for doneness. Serving and Storage: Smoked chicken
  may be served hot or cold.  Allow at least one pound per serving.
  Smoked chicken, like all other poultry and game birds, keeps well
  when frozen-as long as 6 or 8 months with proper methods. Place each
  piece in a plastic bag, or wrap in aluminum foil and freeze at 0 F.
  Frozen, foil-wrapped chicken will keep several days after removal
  from the freezer, even in warm weather.  It makes an excellent food
  to take on picnics or hunting parties. Reheating: To rehat frozen
  smoked chicken, put about a tablespoon of water in the foil package,
  double the edges of the foil over and crimp them tightly with the
  fingers. Thus the steam is kept in, the warming process is pseeded,
  and the chicken emerges moist and succulent. Alternatively, the
  chicken may be reheated in a dutch oven or covered roaster, with a
  tablespoon of water added to ensure ample moisture. There are some
  other suggestions applicable to fixing delicious chicken. For a
  stronger smoke flavor, start with the smoke oven at 85 to 95 F and
  leave the chicken halves until they are nicely colored on both sides,
  then raise the oven temperature to 200 to 225 F and complete the
  cooking described above. The half-chicken makes a convenient portion
  for one person. But whole chicken can be smoked just as well.  So can
  the pieces, legs, thighs, breasts, now sold in many markets.
  Procedure is the same. Apply Basic Seasoning, baste several times
  while smoking.  Here too, a preheated oven produces medium smoke
  flavor.  For stronger flavor, give a preliminary cold-smoking.  As
  with the half-birds, guard against letting the meat get dry during
  cooking in an ordinary oven, during cold storage, or while reheating.
  Especially fine for smoking is the capon. It is more tender than
  other fowl; its fat is distributed throughout the lean tissues
  instead of being concentrated in pockets.  Good capons may weigh from
  6 to 8 pounds. With home-raised chickens, it is very important to
  chill them promptly after killing.  They are very hot-blooded birds
  and, if not rapidly cooled, will soon start to deteriorate. From Jack
  Sleight and Raymond Hull's "Home Book of Smoke Cooking Meat, Fish &
  Game." ISBN 0-8117-2195-7
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DENISE LANGLOIS  SUBJ HELP! - NEW SMOKER GRILL
    On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Art of Smoking - Part 4
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------SMOKED TURKEY----------------------------
           The flesh of the turkey
           -tends to be dry.  Many a
           -turkey
           Cooked by conventional
           -methods has turned out
           -with the texture
           Of dry blotting paper.  The
           -smoke oven does not dry
           -food so
           Much as does the ordinary
           -oven, nevertheless,
           -careful basting
           Is essential with turkey to
           -keep it thoroughly
           -succulent, and
           To develop the best flavor.
 
  Turkeys are sold in several grades.  Grade A birds are perfect in
  every part, breast, wings, skin, etc.  Grade B birds may have some
  minor defect such as a missing wing, a humped back or a skin tear
  that does not affect the rest of the bird.  Grade C has a more
  serious defect, such as skin missing from the breast. A bird could
  also be graded B or C for being too lean and scrawny; this lack of
  fat could to some extent impair the flavor, and would certainly call
  for extra-careful basting. So, if it is specially desired to disply
  the handsome appearance of the whole, smoked bird before carving, a
  Grade A turkey should be chosen. But if the bird is to be cut up
  before the diners see it, a Grade B or C turkey, carefully treated to
  conceal or compensate for its minor defects, will serve the purpose
  quite well. Seasoning: Liberally apply Basic Seasoning to the skin
  and inside neck and body cavities. Moisten the skin if necessary to
  make the seasoning adhere. Smoking: Place the turkey on the rack,
  breast up, with the oven at 200 to 225 F. Baste with butter or
  vegetable oil; about three times is usually sufficient.  A wide,
  shallow pan should be placed about 6 inches below the turkey to catch
  the oil or melted butter that drips off. Stick a meat thermometer in
  the heavy part of the breast, not touching bone. This will indicate
  when the bird is cooked. It is worth emphasizing that with turkey, as
  with most other smoked birds, the inner meat, around the joints, may
  still be red, although it is fully cooked! In this matter, trust the
  meat thermometer. Be guided by the taste and tenderness of the meat;
  do not be deceived by the red coloration. Use of Ordinary Oven: If
  the smoke oven is not hot enough to cook the turkey completely, wait
  until the bird has turned a rich amber and has absorbed the smoke
  flavor. Then lay the bird on aluminum foil; put in 4 tablespoons of
  water; turn up the foil, bring the edges together, fold and crimp
  them as tightly as possible, and wrap the foil closely around the
  bird.  Put in the kitchen oven at 450 F until done. This high
  temperature will not burn or dry out the bird if the wrapping is
  carefully done.  The foil forms, in effect, a miniature pressure
  cooking which conserves nmoisture and cuts down cooking time. Serving
  and Storage: Serve hot or cold.  A delicious sandwich can be made of
  sliced smoked turkey (or chicken) with mayonnaise and butter on
  toast. Smoked turkey can readily be frozen whole, or whatever is left
  cup up into meal-sized portions to be foil-wrapped, frozen and
  thawed, one by one as required. If the wrapping is carefully done,
  there will be no dehydration in storage. In general, turkey hind
  quarters may be smoked separately. Apply Basic Seasoning on both
  sides.  Smoke skin-side down until browned, then turn and smoke-roast
  until done, or wrap in foil and transfer to the kitchen oven to
  finish. As with chicken, for a stronger smoke flavor, give a
  preliminary cold-smoking at 85 to 95 F until the skin is well
  browned, then finish off at 225 F in the smoke oven, or wrap and
  finish at 450 F in the kitchen oven. It is not customary to use
  dressing when smoking a turkey, but if this is desired, do not use
  cold dressing.  In the moderate temperature of a smoke oven, there is
  a possibility of spoilage before the dressing becomes heated above
  the temperature that stops development of harmful bacteria. Here is a
  safe procedure. Heat the dressing in a baking dish in the kitchen
  oven, and stuff the turkey with the hot dressing. Wrap in foil as
  described before, and place in kitchen oven at 450 F for 1 hour or
  until thermometer reads 185 F. Remove foil, and put bird in smoke
  oven at 100 to 125 F for about 3 hours, till it has picked up the
  desired smoke color and flavor. Wild turkey, of course, gets much
  more exercise than the domestic variety, so it usually has less fat
  under its skin. It may be processed the same as domestic turkey
  except that, because of this lack of fat, it will require
  extra-careful basting with vegetable oil or butter. Bacon strips may
  be used instead, but they should be removed part-way through, to
  allow uniform browning. If a turkey is big -over 15 lbs- start with
  the oven at 200 F and quickly heat the bird right through. Then
  reduce temperature to 180 F for an hour or two to let it pick up
  smoke.  Then fishis off at 225 to 250 F. From Jack Sleight and
  Raymond Hull's "Home Book of Smoke Cooking Meat, Fish & Game."  ISBN
  0-8117-2195-7
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DENISE LANGLOIS  SUBJ HELP! - NEW SMOKER GRILL
    On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Smoker Seasoning
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           This multipurpose seasoning
           -can often be used to
           -prepare
           Meat or poultry for smoking.
 
  Quite apart from its functions in smoke cookery, the Basic Seasoning
  serves for almost any purpose in the kitchen where plain salt and
  pepper are being used, and gives a great improvement of flavor. 1 lb.
  10 oz. table salt 1 Tbsp    onion salt 2 Tbsp celery salt 1 Tbsp
  garlic salt 2 Tbsp paprika 4 Tbsp    black pepper 4 Tbsp white pepper
  2 Tbsp dill salt 3 Tbsp monosodium glutamate 4 Tbsp white sugar Mix
  thoroughly, store in a covered jar in a dry place, let it stand at
  least several days-the longer the better-before use. Other notes: For
  spicier flavor, 1 Tbsp. of mace and/or nutmeg may be added. For a
  hotter mixture, add 1 Tbsp of curry powder and/or dry mustard.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DENISE LANGLOIS  SUBJ HELP! - NEW SMOKER GRILL
    On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Fish Curry
 Categories: Main dish, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    650 g  Thick white fish fillets
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Cumin seeds
    1/2 ts Fennel seeds
    1/2 c  Desiccated cocunt
      2    Piece ginger chopped (2cm)
      2    Dried chillies, soaked for
           15 minutes in hot water
      2    Cloves garlic
      1 md Onion
    3/4 ts Turmeric
      2 ts Tamarind concentrate
      2 tb Butter
  1 1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Chopped coriander
 
  Preparation time: 20 minutes Cooking time: 12 minutes
  
  Cut across the fillets to make thick slices. Sprinkle with lemon
  juice and set aside. Toast the cumin, fennel seeds and coconut in a
  dry pan until lightly golden and aromatic. Grind to a powder in a
  spice grinder. Grind the ginger, chillies, garlic and onion to a
  paste and add the ground spices, turmeric and tamarind. Fry the
  prepared seasoning paste in the butter for 1.5-2 minutes, stirring.
  Add water and bring to boil. Simmer for 6 minutes. Add the fish with
  half the coriander. Simmer gently until the fish is tender, about 6
  minutes. Serve with rice, garnishing with the remaining coriander.
  
  Compiled: I. Chaudhary
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cauliflower Tomato and Green Pea Curry
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    800 g  Cauliflower
           Separated into flowerets
  1 1/2 c  Fresh or frozen green peas
      1 md Onion, thinly sliced
      1 ts Mashed garlic
      1 ts Grated ginger
      4 tb Ghee
    3/4 ts Turmeric
      1 tb Ground coriander
      1 tb Vindaloo paste
      2 ts Sugar
      2    Cardamoms, opened
    3/4 c  Yoghurt
      2 l  Tomatoes, cut into wedges
 
  Preparation time: 25 minutes Cooking time: 20 minutes
  
  Boil the cauliflower and peas in water until tender. Drain. Cook the
  onion, garlic and ginger in the ghee until golden and tender. Add the
  turmeric, coriander, vindaloo, sugar, cardamoms and yoghurt and cook
  for 3-4 minutes. Add the tomatoes and cook 3-4 minutes. Add
  cauliflower and peas. Simmer for 3-4 minutes and serve hot with rice.
  
  Compiled: I. Chaudhary
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Rice and Lentils
 Categories: Main dish, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Brown lentils soaked for 1hr
      1 l  Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Mashed garlic
    1/2 ts Grated ginger
      1    Fresh green chilli
           Seeded and finely chopped
      4 tb Ghee
      1    Cinnamon stick
      2    Cloves
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Long grain rice
           Soaked for 1 hour
    1/2 c  Red lentils
      2 tb Chopped spring onions
 
  Preparation time: 25 minutes + 1 hour standing Cooking time: 25
  minutes
  
  Drain the brown lentils, cover with boiling water and boil for 15
  minutes until beginning to soften. Drain Cook the onion, garlic,
  ginger and chilli in the ghee until soft and lightly coloured. Add
  the cinnamon, cloves, bay leaf and turmeric. Cook for 2 minutes,
  stirring. Add the drained rice and lentils, mix well, then add water
  to cover by 3-cm. Bring to boil, then cook on very low heat until the
  liquid has been absorbed, about 20 minutes. Stir in the chopped
  spring onion. Remove cinnamon stick before serving.
  
  Compiled: I. Chaudhary & T. Elliot
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sag Paneer
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetables, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Bunch spinach, leaves only
    250 g  Ricotta cheese, cubed
           Oil for frying
      2 ts Dried fenugreek leaves
      1 l  Onion, finely sliced
      2 ts Finely chopped garlic
      1 ts Finely chopped fresh ginger
      2 ts Ground cummin
    1/2 ts Ground turmeric
      1 md Tomato, chopped
      1 ts Salt
           Juice of half a lemon
 
  Boil spinach in cup (8 fl oz) water for 5 minutes, drain, chop and set
  aside. Fru cheese to a golden brown and set aside. Heat 3 tablespoons
  oil in a saucepan, stir in fenugreek leaves then onion and fry till
  soft and golden. Stir in garlic, ginger, cummin, turmeric, tomato,
  salt and lemon juice. Cook till oil comes to the surface and the
  mixture smells fragrant. Mix in the spinach and cook for further 5
  minutes. Gently stir in the cheese cubs, heat through and serve with
  rice and accompaniments.
  
  Source: The Curry Cookbook-Charmaine Solomon
  
  Compiled by Imran C.
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetables in a Yoghurt and Coconut Sauce
 Categories: Vegetables, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    100 g  Green beans, cut into 1cm
           Pieces
     50 g  Carrots, diced into 5mm
           Cubes
     50 g  Peas
    3/4 ts Chilli powder
    1/2 ts Ground turmeric
    3/4 ts Salt
    350    -ml water
    250    -ml unsweetened yoghurt
      2    Green chillies
      1 ts Ground coriander
      2 tb Dessicated coconut
      1 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Mustard seeds
      8    Curry leaves
 
  Place the vegetables, chilli powder, turmeric, salt and water in a
  large saucepan and bring to the boil. Simmer for about 20 minutes
  until the vegetables are tender. Remove from heat.
  
  Whisk the yoghurt, green chillies, coriander and coconut together and
  set aside.
  
  In a large saucepan, heat the oil over medium high heat. Add the
  mustard seeds and curry leaves, and after 5-6 seconds add the
  vegetables with the ligquid. Cook for 2-3 minutes. Lower the heat and
  add the yoghurt mixture and stirring occasionally, cook for a further
  4-5 minutes. Serve with rice.
  
  Source: The Complete Indian Cookbook
  Compiled by: Imran C. GOLD COAST, 'Oz
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Curry with Nuts and Coconut Milk
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Indian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Coconut milk (400ml)
     50 g  Cashew nuts
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
    1/2 ts Chilli powder
     15 g  Fresh ginger, grated
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Turmeric
           Leaves from 1 sprig of
           Coriander
    1/2 ts Garam masala
    1/2 ts Ground pepper
    100 g  Butter or ghee
      1 sm Onion
      1 kg Lamb, trimmed and cubed
    1/4 ts Saffron
     25 g  Sultanas
     50 g  Almonds
           Salt
      6    Curry leaves
 
  Grind, pound or blend in a liquidizer the cashew nuts, garlic, chilli
  powder, ginger, ground coriander, turmeric, coriander leaves, garam
  masala and pepper.
  
  Heat the butter or ghee in a pan, add the onion and fry until golden,
  then add the blended spices and fry for a further 5 minutes.
  
  Add the meat, stir and fry for 5 minutes, then pour on the coconut
  milk, add the saffron, sultanas, almonds and 1/2 tsp salt and cook,
  covered over low heat for about 1 hour, until the meat is tender and
  the sauce has thickened.
  
  Sprinkle on the curry leaves.
  
  Teresa's Favourite Recipe!
  
  Compiled: Imran C.
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rendang Padang (Indonesian Beef Curry)
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Indonesian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Cloves garlic
      1 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Ginger
      3    Lemon grass leaves
    450 g  Top round or lean beef
           Sliced thinly
      1 ts Salt, or to taste
  1 1/2 c  Coconut milk
      1    Salam leaf
 
  Heat oil in pan and add garlic, turmeric, ginger and lemon grass.
  Saute lightly.
  
  Then add meat and crushed chillies. Saute 3 minutes, stirring
  frequently. Add salt and chillies and mix well.
  
  Pour coconut milk over meat and add salam leaf. Cover and cook over
  low heat until almost dry.
  
  Serve with rice.
  
  Compiled by Imran C.
  
  Source: Cook Indonesian
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Udang Kari (Indonesian Prawn Curry)
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Indonesian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Lemon grass
      1 ts Sambal oelek
           Sliver of shrimp paste
           (belacan)
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Coconut milk
    450 g  Shelled frozen prawns
 
  Heat oil and lightly saute onion and garlic. Add garlic, turmeric,
  cummin and lemon grass. Stir and add sambal oelek, shrimp paste and
  salt. Stir again.
  
  Add coconut milk and bring to a boil. Lower heat and add prawns.
  Simmer uncovered for 15-20 mins.
  
  Serve with rice.
  
  Source: Cook Indonesian-Agnes Brackman
  
  Compiled by Imran C. Gold Coast....'Oz
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ikan Bali (Bali Fish)
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Indonesian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Fish, about 650-900g dressed
           Weight.
           Preferably sea bass or
           Mackerel
      1 ts Salt
           Oil, for deep frying
      2 tb Margarine or oil
      2 sm Onions, sliced
      1 ts Sambal Oelek
    1/2 ts Laos
    1/2 ts Lemon grass
      3 tb Tamarind juice
           Pinch of ground ginger
      1 ts Brown sugar
      1 tb Sweet soy sauce
 
  Cut fish into serving portions and rub salt all over. Feep-fry and
  drain on absorbent paper.
  
  Heat oil and saute sliced onions until lightly brown. Add sambal
  oelek, laos, lemon grass, tamarind juice, ginger, brown sugar and soy
  sauce. Heat thoroughly.
  
  Place fried fish in deep serving dish and pour sauce over it. Serve
  with rice.
  
  Source: Cook Indonesian-Agnes Brackman
  
  Imran C. Gold Coast, 'Oz
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Opor Ayam (Coconut Chicken Curry)
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Indonesian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Broiler or fryer
           Chicken with skin, approx.
           450g.
      2 ts Salt
      1 lg Onion, chopped finely
      3    Cloves garlic, chopped
      3 tb Oil
      1 tb Coriander
           Pinch of chopped ginger
      1 ts Ground lemon grass
      2 c  Coconut milk
      1    Salam leaf
 
  Cut chicken into serving portions and rub with salt.
  
  Fry onion and garlic in oil until lightly brown. Now, add coriander,
  ginger and lemon grass. Stir well for about 1 minute.
  
  Add chicken, mixing thoroughly so that chicken absorbs the spices. Add
  coconut milk and salam leaf. Cover tightly and cook over medium heat
  for about 40 minutes. Serve with rice.
  
  Compiled by Imran C. Gold Coast, 'Oz
  
  Source: Cook Indonesian-Agnes Brackman
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ayam Bumbu Rojak (Chicken with Spicy Sauce)
 Categories: Poultry, Indonesian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Broiler or fryer
           Chicken with skin 450g
      1 lg Onion, finely chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, chopped
           Finely
      3 tb Oil
      1 ts Brown sugar
      1    Red chilli, crushed
      2    Candlenuts, grated
    1/4    Roll shrimp paste
      1 ts Sweet soy sauce
      2 ts Salt
 
  Cut chicken into serving portions
  
  Fry onion and garlic in oil until golden brown. Add brown sugar,
  chilli, candlenuts and shrimp paste and stir. Add chicken to this
  spicy mixture.
  
  Then add tamarind juice, soy sauce, 1 cup water and salt. Cover
  tightly and cook slowly until liquid is completely absorbed by
  chicken. Serve with rice.
  
  Source: Cook Indonesian-Agnes Brackman
  
  Compiled by Imran C. Gold Coast-'Oz
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indonesian Shredded Spicy Beef (Indonesia)
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Indonesian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    450 g  Boneless chuck
      2    Cloves garlic
      1 ts Brown sugar
      1 ts Laos
    1/2 ts Coriander]
      1 tb Tamarind juice
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Oil
      1 sm Onion, sliced thinly
 
  On the day before, cook meat in water with a bit of salt until tender.
  Store overnight in refrigerator. The following day shred beef into
  small strips, pulling it apart with your fingers.
  
  Mix together garlic, brown sugar, laos, coriander, tamarind juice and
  salt. Add mixture to meat and stir well.
  
  Heat oil in heavy skillet and fry meat and spices until deep brown and
  crisp.
  
  Separately, fry onion until deep brown. Sprinkle on top of meat and
  serve with rice.
  
  Compiled by Imran C.
  
  Source: Cook Indonesian-Agnes Brackman
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ayam Goreng Asam (Indonesia) Piquant Fried Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2    Roasting chicken
      3    Cloves garlic
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Ground black pepper
      1 ts Palm sugar or substitute
      2 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Ground turmeric
    1/3 c  Tamarind liquid
           Oil for frying
 
  Cut chicken into small serving pieces. Crush garlic with salt to a
  smooth paste and combine with pepper, sugar, coriander, cummin,
  turmeric and tamarind liquid. Rub over the chicken pieces and leave
  for 1 hour, or cover and marinade in refrigerator overnight. Heat
  enough oil in a large heavy frying pan to cover base of pan. Take
  chicken pieces from marinade and drain on paper towels to get rid of
  excess moisture. Put pieces into the frying pan and cook over medium
  heat for 2 minutes on each side, turning with tongs until golden
  brown. Reduce heat, cover pan and cook for 10-12 minutes longer,
  turning pieces half-way through. Drain on absorbent paper and serve
  warm.
  
  Compiled by Imran C.                Gold Coast - Oz
  
  Source: The Complete Asian Cookbook-C. Solomon
  Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-06-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Murgh Makhani (Butter Chicken)
 Categories: Indian, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    150 ml Plain yoghurt
     50 g  Ground almonds
  1 1/2 ts Chilli powder
    1/4 ts Crushed bay leaves
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 ts Garam masala
      4    Green cardamom pod
      1 ts Ginger pulp
      1 ts Garlic pulp
    400 g  Canned tomatoes
  1 1/4 ts Tsp salt
      1 kg Chicken, skinned, boned and
           Cubed
      6 tb Butter
      1 tb Corn oil
      2 md Onions-sliced
      2 tb Chopped fresh coriander
      4 tb Light cream
           Coriander sprigs
 
  1. Put the yoghurt, ground almonds, all the dry spices, ginger,
  garlic, tomatoes and salt into a mixing bowl and blend together
  thoroughly.
  
  2. Put the chicken into a large mixing bowl and pour over the yoghurt
  mixture. Set aside.
  
  3. Melt together the butter and oil in a medium karahi (wok) or deep
  round-bottomed frying pan (skillet). Add the onions and fry for about
  3 minutes.
  
  4. Add the chicken mixture and stir-fry for 7-10 minutes.
  
  5. Stir in about half the coriander and mix well.
  
  6. Pour over the cream and stir in well. Bring to the boil. Seve
  garnished with the remaining chopped coriander and coriander springs.
  
  Compiled by I. Chaudhary-Gold Coast-Australia (July-95) Taste the
  World Submitted By IMRAN CHAUDHARY   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Jelly Test
 Categories: Information, Can/preserv, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 
  Testing for jelly-- Take a little cooked juice in a spoon, cool
  slightly and pour slowly back into kettle from the edge of the spoon.
  If the jelly is not cooked sufficiently the juice will fall in 2
  parallel drops. When the jelly is cooked sufficiently the drops run
  together and fall from the spoon in a flake or sheet leaving the edge
  of the spoon clean. Remove from the heat and skim. Pour immediately
  into glases or jars. Pour carefully to avoid splashes or drops on the
  rim, since these cause a poor seal with the paraffin.
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Apple Jelly
 Categories: Dips/spread, Can/preserv
      Yield: 24 ounces
 
      4 lb Tart apples
      4 c  Water
           Sugar
 
  Wash and Quarter apples without paring or removing the cores. Place in
  kettle, add water, cover and cook slowly until fruit is tender, 20 to
  25 minutes. Pour into jelly bag and let drip. Use pulp for apple
  butter or add water again and extract juice a second time. Combine
  this second extraction with the first or use seperately. For each cup
  of juice use 3/4 cup sugar. Cook only 3 to 4 cups of juice at a time.
  Heat juice to boiling, add sugar gradually and boil rapidly until
  mixture gives test for jelly. Skim and pour into sterile jars. Seal
  with parrafin. Makes 4 (6 oz) glasses. VARIATIONS: MINT: Wash and
  mince 2 cups mint leaves. Add 1/2 cup water and 1/2 cup sugar. Let
  stand several hours. Heat to boiling and strain. Color 4 cups of
  apple juice prepared as for apple jelly with green food coloring,
  cook and when near the jellying point add 1 or 2 tablespoons of the
  mint juice. Finish cooking, skim, pour into sterile jars and seal.
  ROSE GERANIUM or LEMON VERBENA: Add 1 leaf to juice for every cup of
  sugar used in apple jelly. Add leaf when juice is nearly at jellying
  point. Remove leaves when jelly is cooked.
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Bake
 Categories: Rice, Vegetables, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 casserole
 
    3/4 c  Uncooked brown rice
  1 1/2 c  Water
           Sea salt
      1 ea Onion, peeled and chopped
      2 tb Oil
     16 oz Frozen spinach, thawed (or
           -two pounds fresh, cooked
           -and drained)
    1/2 lb Dairy-free cheese, grated
           -(available in natural foods
           -stores)
        x  Freshly ground black pepper
    1/4 c  Whole wheat bread crumbs
 
  Put the rice in a medium saucepan with water and salt.  Bring to a
  boil. Cover, reduce the heat and cook 45 minutes.
  
  While the rice is cooking, fry onion in oil for 10 minutes over low
  heat. Then add spinach and remove from heat.  Add this mixture to the
  cooked rice, together with three-quarters of the cheese.  Add pepper
  to taste.
  
  Turn the mixture into a shallow-oven-proof dish.  Sprinkle the bread
  crumbs and remaining cheeese on top.  Cook for 30 minutes at 350
  degrees.
  
  Recipe by Jody Mykins, Sojourner House, Rochester, NY, as seen in the
  Corydon Ireland column in THE OLYMPIAN, 6/28/95.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crockpot Boston Brown Bread
 Categories: Breads, Crockpot
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Corn meal
      1 c  Flour, rye
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Flour, whole wheat
    3/4 c  Molasses
      2 c  Milk, sour -=OR=-
      2 c  Buttermilk
      1 c  Raisins
 
     Combine corn meal, rye flour, soda and salt.  Add wheat flour.
     In a separate bowl, stir molasses into sour milk or buttermilk and
  add to dry ingredients, a little at a time.  Stir just enough to
  blend and add raisins.
     Spoon into two one pound coffee cans and cover with foil.  Tie.
  Place cans on metal rack in bottom of slow cooker and pour 2 cups of
  hot water around cans.
     Cover pot and cook on high for 2 1/2 to 3 hours.  Remove cans from
  pot and let stand 5 to 10 minutes.  Turn bread out on cooling rack.
  
  Source: Crockery Cookery by Mable Hoffman
  Submitted By KARL LEMBKE   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Couldn't Be Easier Slow-Cooker Bread
 Categories: Breads, Crockpot
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Yeast
    1/4 c  Warm Water
      1 c  Warm Milk or Buttermilk
    1/2 c  Rolled Oats
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Honey
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Wheat Germ
  2 3/4 c  Whole Wheat Flour
 
  Grease a deep metal or glass bowl or 1 lb. coffee can.  Turn
  slow-cooker on high to preheat. Dissolve yeast in water. Combine with
  milk, oats, salt, oil, honey, egg and wheat germ. Add flour and knead
  until smooth and elastic, about 5 minutes.  Turn dough immediately
  into bowl or can and cover *loosely* with foil.  In bottom of
  slow-cooker place 1/2 C water and a trivet or some crumpled foil.
  Place can or bowl on this, cover and bake on high for 3 hours.  Top
  of bread will not necessarily brown.
  
  Protein:  78.5 grams Calories: 2043
  
  Just 15 minutes work time!  A great way to have nutritious, fresh
  bread with a minimum of fuss, especially for small families.  You
  don't waste oven energy for just one loaf of bread.  Nice for a hot
  summer day. Submitted By KARL LEMBKE   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crock Pot Cheese Potatoes
 Categories: Crockpot
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      5 lb Potatoes
           Salt and pepper to taste
  1 1/2    Sticks of margarine
      3 c  Shredded mild Cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  Boil potatoes in skins until partially cooked; cool, peel, and grate.
  Divide potatoes in 3 equal portions.  In a large round crockpot, put
  in a layer of grated potatoes, salt and pepper, 1/2 stick of butter,
  cut into pats, 1 cup shredded cheese.  Repeat this procedure two more
  times, then pour milk over this. Cover and cook on MEDIUM heat for 2
  1/2 hours, the last 1/2 hour put on HIGH. Randy Rigg
  
  From: Randy Rigg                      Date: 08 Sep 94
  Submitted By KARL LEMBKE   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: About Caviar
 Categories: Information, Fish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 text file
 
 
  Caviar is any salted fish roe. Although Russian sturgeon is the best
  in the world, it is incredibly expensive and the roe of many other
  fish is also quite tasty. In order of quality and price: salmon, cod,
  herring and lumpfish. I have had good luck with fresh water fish as
  well, especially "pickerel" or Wall-eyed Pike [and that's FREE!]
  
  Caviar is very perishable and should be kept refrigerated but never
  frozen. Canned caviar has been pasteurized but should be refrigerated
  as soon as it has been opened. Pasteurizing does affect taste and
  quality.
  
  When preparing caviar dishes be careful not to bruise or break the
  eggs. Never allow caviar to be touched by metal spoons or to be
  served in metal bowls. Use wooden or plastic spoons and glass bowls.
  
  All caviar should be served thoroughly chilled. The serving bowl is
  usually imbedded in ice. The classic presentation is to serve a bowl
  with fresh toast, either buttered or dry- just heap the caviar on
  toast and enjoy. Use ornamental strips, triangles or rounds of white
  or rye bread. Optional garnishes include lemon wedges, chopped hard
  boiled egg yolks, egg whites and onions. The best accompaniments are
  iced vodka or champagne.
  
  For economy caviar, cream cheese and sour cream can be mixed into a
  spread. Caviar can also be used sparingly as a garnish for sour
  cream, white sauces or home made mayonnaise used to top blinis, cold
  salmon appetizers and other fish dishes. As well it makes an elegant
  topping for several canapes.
  
  Caviar is never cooked but there are recipes using cooked fresh roe.
  
  To prepare caviar from fresh roe: Remove the roe from VERY fresh
  fish. Tear the egg masses into small pieces and work them through a
  coarse sieve to free the eggs from the membranes. Soak the eggs in a
  brine of 1 cup pickling salt to 1 qt cold water for 20 minutes. Drain
  thoroughly, keeping it refrigerated while doing so. Store in an air
  tight, covered non-metal container for up to one month.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caviar Butter
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Caviar; black preferred
           Parsley; fresh, chopped, opt
 
  Cream the butter and add the lemon juice and caviar. Chill, mold or
  cut shapes and serve on fish dishes as a garnish. Sprinkle with fresh
  chopped parsley if desired.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caviar Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce, Appetizers, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 1/3 cups
 
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Onion juice
      2 ts Capers
    1/4 c  Caviar; lumpfish or other
           -economical red type
 
  Mix all the ingredients and serve on baked potatoes, salmon steaks and
  other fish dishes, in lieu of Tartar sauce for batter fried fish or
  as a dip for assorted raw vegetables.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caviar Boats
 Categories: Fish, Appetizers, Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 batch
 
    1/2    Recipe of pie crust  OR
    1/2    Recipe of biscuit dough
  1 1/2 ts Gelatin
      1 c  Fish stock; clarified
           Lemon juice, to taste
           Mayonnaise
           Caviar; chilled
           Pearl Onions
           Dill; fresh, cut into 1 1/2"
           -sections
 
  Prepare a small batch of your favorite savory [non-sweet] pie crust or
  pastry and roll out until it is 1/8" thick. Cut out shapes and line
  "barquettes" [they look like little scows or flat bottomed boats] if
  you have them or clean sardine cans or small tart/muffin trays. Bake
  for about 10 minutes at 425 or until lightly browned. Cool.
  
  In the meantime make an aspic glaze of gelatin and fish stock,
  flavored with lemon juice by soaking the gelatin in 1/3 cup of stock,
  dissolving it over hot water and adding the rest of the stock. Chill
  until it starts to thicken and set aside.
  
  Assemble the boats by lining the cool pasties with mayonnaise, and
  then making a pattern with the dill or onions and the caviar. Coat
  with aspic glaze and refrigerate several hours for the aspic to
  finish setting.
  
  [These boats are ideal for a number of other canape fillings as well.]
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caviar Dip
 Categories: Fish, Appetizers, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 cup
 
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      3 tb Caviar
      2 tb Onion; minced
           Hard cooked eggs; sliced
           Toast rounds or Melbas
 
  Fold the caviar and onion into the heavy cream. Serve with sliced egg
  on Melba toast or similar crackers.
  
  To reduce fat try low-fat sour cream and yogurt combined with just a
  dash of sugar and thinned with a bit of milk in place of the cream.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caviar Canapes and Hors D'oeuvres
 Categories: Appetizers, Fish
      Yield: 1 text file
 
 
  Caviar can be used sparingly and economically to dress up all sorts or
  canapes, hors d'oeuvres and appetizers. It combines well with fish,
  mayonnaise and egg dishes.
  
  Try:
  
  ~1- As a garnish alone or with shrimp and crab on devilled egg salads
      served on toast rounds, crackers or in small pastries.
  
  ~2- Sprinkled on a dab of mayonnaise topping a 1/2 hard cooked egg.
  
  ~3- Assemble in layers: -sauteed toast rounds, crackers, Pumpernickel
                           bread cut into shapes or Melbas
                          -egg salad spread
                          -a spread of caviar, minced onion and lemon
                           juice
                          -a single small shrimp as a garnish.
  
  ~4- Assemble: -toast rounds or similar
                -one ring of sliced, raw, mild onion
                -dip slice of cucumber in French Dressing and place
                 inside onion ring
                -cover cucumber with small mound of caviar seasoned with
                 lemon and onion juice
                - garnish with capers, chives or riced hard cooked eggs.
  
  ~5- Sprinkle over a dab of mayonnaise topping a wedge or slice of
      tomato on a cracker or toast.
  
  ~6- Sprinkle on a dab of herbed mayonnaise topping a cold salmon
      or Arctic char steak in jellied aspic glaze.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Tarama Salad
 Categories: Greek, Salads, Appetizers, Dips/spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 tb Tarama [Carp Roe]
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 sl White bread
    3/4 c  Olive oil
 
  In a mixer or blender, blend on low the tarama and lemon juice. Trim
  the crusts from the bread, soak the bread in water, and squeeze out
  the excess water. Break the bread into the mixture and blend on
  medium. Add the oil gradually with the blender on; the mixture should
  thicken like mayonnaise. Serve as a dip with raw vegetables and
  olives or with toast, crackers or dippers.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: About Fresh Roe
 Categories: Fish, Information
      Yield: 1 text file
 
 
  Roe can be broken out of its membrane and salted to create caviar or
  cooked in a variety of ways. There will be two sacs in each fish.
  Handle carefully to keep the membranes intact.
  
  To poach: cover with boiling water. Add a dash of vinegar or lemon
  juice and a pinch of salt. Simmer until firm, 5 to 10 minutes
  depending on the size.
  
  To broil: Dry the poached roe gently on a paper towel. Dredge in
  flour, baste with melted butter and broil 3-4 minutes per side.
  
  To fry[1]: Fry bacon and set aside. Blend an egg with 1 Tbl milk and
  dip poached roe in the egg wash. Then dip in seasoned flour or crumbs
  or in cornmeal. Fry in the bacon fat until browned. Serve with bacon
  bits as a garnish.
  
  To fry[2]: Dredge raw roe sacs in flour and sautee in sizzling garlic
  flavored butter until thoroughly cooked and browned.
  
  To fry[3]: Fry poached roes in butter with salt, pepper, lemon juice
  and fine herbs [ parsley, tarragon, chervil and chives]. Serve with
  pan juices dripped over the roes.
  
  To cream: Simmer several roes, chopped onion, and chopped spinach or
  sorrel in a covered skillet with 2 Tbls butter and 1 cup dry white
  wine about 20 minutes. Remove the roes and add a cup of heavy cream;
  reduce until thickened and serve over the roe. Season with salt and
  pepper to taste.
  
  To bake: Poach first and place in a baking dish. Smother with creole
  or mushroom sauce and bake uncovered 15 minutes.
  
  To serve: use as a hot hors d'oeuvre, on toast as a canape, as a
  between course savory, as a garnish for fish dishes or in larger
  quantities as a light luncheon entree.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic Blinis
 Categories: Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 42 blini
 
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 pk Yeast
      2 ts Sugar
      3 c  Flour
      3    Eggs; separated
      5 tb Butter; melted
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Scald the milk and let cool til lukewarm. Add the yeast and stir. Add
  the sugar and 1/2 the flour, mix, cover and let stand in a warm place
  to rise until doubled in size. Beat the egg yolks with melted butter
  and salt. Add to the batter. Add the rest of the flour and beat until
  smooth. Let rise again. Beat the egg whites until stiff and _gently_
  fold into the batter. Let batter stand 10 minutes before spooning
  onto a hot griddle and frying. 1 Tbls portions will yield about 42
  blinis or 6-7 generous portions. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On
   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buckwheat Blinis with Sour Cream and Caviar
 Categories: Pcake/waffl, Fish
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 pk Yeast
      4    Eggs; separated
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      3 tb Butter; melted
  1 1/2 c  Buckwheat flour; sifted
           Sour Cream
           Caviar
 
  Scald milk and let cool to lukewarm. Add yeast and stir. Beat the egg
  yolks until thick. Add the yeast mixture and the remaining
  ingredients except the egg whites. Mix. Cover and let rise in a warm
  place until doubled in size. About 1-1 1/2 hrs. Beat egg whites until
  stiff and _gently_ stir into the batter. Pour the batter onto a hot
  buttered grill in tablespoon amounts and fry til golden brown,
  turning once. This should yield about 36 small blini or 9 servings.
  
  Garnish with a spoonful of sour cream and a dab of caviar.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Chicken Breast
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Boneless chicken breast,
           -skin on is best, but
           -skinless will work
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      2 ts Spicy mustard (I use
           -Zatarain's Cajun Mustard
           -for this, but any
           -spicy coarse-grained
           -mustard is okay)
           -Juice of one lime
           -Coarsely ground pepper to
           -taste (I use quite a bit)
 
  Mix the last four ingredients together, and smear liberally over the
  chicken breast.  Allow the chicken to sit in the mixture for about an
  hour if possible.
  
  Preheat the grill on medium-high for about 10 minutes.  Place chicken
  breast, skin side down on grill.  Cook until chicken is about half
  done (maybe 6 minutes).  Turn, and baste skin side of chicken with
  any marinade remaining in the pan.  Continue cooking until chicken is
  done.
  
  From: Kathy Pitts                     Date: 05 Feb 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Bread Abm
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
      1    Eggs
      3 tb Butter
      8 oz Almond paste; 1/8" slices
  2 1/2 c  Flour; not bread flour
      2 tb Sugar, brown
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Yeast

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 ts Syrup, corn
      1 ts Water; warm
           Almonds, slivered
 
  Unless the instructions that came with your ABM  call for putting the
  yeast in the pan first and incorporating the liquid ingredients last,
  pour the milk into the baking pan of your ABM and break in the egg.
  If the butter is not soft, cut it into small chunks to ensure its
  blending into the dough, then add it to the liquids.
  
  Next add the almond paste, sliced so it will blend better too.
  Measure in the flour, brown sugar, and salt, and add the yeast as
  directed for your bread maker.
  
  You can use your machine's full cycle with this bread, but the quick
  cycle is better. If a light color setting is available, use it as
  well.
  
  As soon as the bread has finished baking, remove it from the machine,
  closing the cover again, and ease the loaf from the pan. Combine the
  corn syrup and warm water and brush the top of the loaf with this
  mixture, using a pastry brush. Sprinkle the slivered almonds over the
  glaze, put the bread gently back in its pan, and return it to the
  electronic oven for a few minutes to dry the glaze a bit.
  
  Source: The Bread Machine Bakery Book
  
  Posted on GEnie Food & Wine RT Dec 23, 1992 by C.SVITEK [cathy]
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: American Garlic & Parsley Bread - Machine
 Categories: Breads, Breadmaker
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 ts Active dry yeast
      3 c  Bread flour
      3 tb Wheat germ
      3 tb Wheat bran
  1 3/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      3 tb Chopped fresh parsley
  1 1/4 c  Water
 
       Add all ingredients in the order suggested by your bread machine
  manual and process on the basic bread cycle according to the
  manufacturer's directions.  For DAK/Welbilt, use White bread setting.
  Let the loaf cool before slicing.  Serve plain or toasted.
       "This is good bread for a steak sandwich, French dip roast beef,
  or a grilled mozzarella cheese and tomato sandwich.  Baking the
  garlic right in the bread lightens the garlic flavor.  If this is not
  a strong enough garlic statement for you, add another clove."
  
  From: The Best Bread Machine Cookbook Ever By: Madge Rosenberg
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bread: Machine: Hazlenut-Amaretto Loaf
 Categories: Breads, Breadmaker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------1-POUND LOAF-----------------------------
      2 c  Bread flour
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Toasted chopped hazelnuts
      1    Egg
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Margarine or butter
      4 ts Amaretto or hazelnut liqueur
    3/4 ts Active dry yeast
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Recipe Amaretto Glaze
           Toasted chopped hazlenuts or
           Almonds (optional)

MMMMM-----------------------AMARETTO GLAZE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Sifted powdered sugar
      1 tb Amaretto or hazelnut
           Liqueur
           *OR*
      1 tb Almond extract
      1    To 2 tablespoons milk *IF
           NEEDED
 
  Serve slices of this nutty sweet breat for breakfast, brunch, or an
  afternoon coffee break --
  
  BREAD DIRECTIONS: Add flour, milk, the nuts, egg, sugar, margarine or
  butter, liqueur, yeast, and salt to the bread machine according to the
  manufacturer's directions.  Bake and cool as directed.  When brread is
  cool, drizzle with Amaretto Glaze.
  
  AMARETTO GLAZE: In a small mixing bowl combine sugar, amaretto or
  hanelnut liqueur *OR* almond extract.  If needed, add 1 to 2
  teaspoons milk to make of drizzling consistency.
  
  BREAD MACHINE BASICS: These helpful tips apply to all types of bread
  machines: Bread flour, which is high in protein, works best for
  breads made in a bread machine.  You can use other grains or flours
  with the bread flour but not in place of all of it.  Some recipes
  also call for a small amount of gluten flour.  This helps breads,
  especially those made with low-gluten flours (such as whole wheat
  flour), hold together.
  
  Add ingredients to the bread machine in the order specified by the
  directions in the owner's manual.
  
  To use powdered milk instead of fresh, add 1/3 cup nonfat dry milk
  powder for each 1 cup of water and add it with the flour.  Always use
  powdered milk when using the timer on your machine.
  
  These recipes come from the BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS BREAD MACHINE
  BOUNTY COOKBOOK.  To order the book, call 800/678-2665.  Or, write to
  Better Homes and Gardens Books, P.O. Box 10674, Des Moines, IA
  50380-0674.
  
  * Please note, I'm not trying to sell this stuff.  It was all
  included with the recipe, and I thought it unfair to leave it off.
  
  SOURCE: BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS, July 1993.
  
  Shared by Cate Vanicek
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brown Bagger's White Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           **For the 1-1/2 lb. loaf**
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Milk (add 2 tbsp. more water
           -for DAK/Welbilt mach)
      1    Egg
      3 c  Bread flour
      3 tb Wheat germ or bran
      2 tb Instant potato flakes
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Oil
      3 tb Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Red star yeast (2 tsp. for
           -Dak/Welbilt; 3 tsp for
           -Panasonic/Nat'l)
 
  Place all ingredients in pan, select Light Crust and press Start.
  
  Source:  Bread Machine Magic by Linda Rehberg and Lois Conway.
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 2-Minute Fudge
 Categories: Candies, Holiday
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      1 lb Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Milk
      1 tb Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Nuts, chopped
 
  In a 1 1/2 qt. casserole, stir sugar, cocoa, salt, milk and vanilla
  together until partially blended (it will be too stiff to blend
  thoroughly).  Put butter over top in center of dish.  Microwave at
  high for 2 minutes, or until smooth.  If all butter has not melted in
  cooking, it will as mixture is stirred.  Blend in nuts.  Pour into a
  lightly-buttered 8x4x3" dish.  Chill 1 hour in refrigerator or 20 to
  30 minutes in freezer. Cut into squares.  Makes about 36 squares.
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A Little Something To Go with That Chicken:
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 oz Sharp cheddar cheese
      2 md Jalapeno peppers
  8 1/2 oz Cream-style corn (1 can)
      1 c  Yellow cornmeal
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    3/4 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 c  Corn oil
      2 tb Butter
 
  PREPARATION:  Adjust oven rack to center position; heat oven to 400F.
  Grate cheese (1 cup) and mince jalapeno peppers (1/4 cup).  In a
  mixing bowl, combine corn, cornmeal, egggs, salt, baking soda,
  buttermilk, oil, 1/2 cup cheese and peppers.
  
  COOKING:  Put butter in a 1 1/2 quart casserole or 9-inch oven-proof
  frying pan; heat in oven until butter is hot.  Pour cornbread mixture
  into the pan and sprinkle with remaining cheese.  Bake until golden,
  about 35 minutes.
  
  Makes 8 servings
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Absolutely Deep Dark Chocolate Fudge Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 32 servings
 
           Stephen Ceideburg

MMMMM--------------------------COOKIES-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      8 oz Semisweet baking chocolate,
           -broken
      4 oz Unsweetened baking
           -chocolate, broken
  1 1/2 c  Firmly packed light brown
           -sugar
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
     18 oz Semisweet chocolate chips

MMMMM-----------------OPTIONAL CHOCOLATE GANACHE----------------------
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Granulated sugar
     12 oz Semisweet baking chocolate,
           -broken
 
  To prepare Cookies: Preheat oven to 325 degrees.
  
  Sift together cocoa, flour, baking soda and salt onto a sheet of wax
  paper. Set aside.
  
  Heat 1 inch of water in the bottom of a double boiler over medium
  heat. Place semisweet and unsweetened baking chocolate in top half of
  the double boiler. Tightly cover the top pan with plastic wrap and
  heat 12 to 15 minutes. Remove from heat and stir chocolate until
  smooth. Keep at room temperature.
  
  Place brown sugar and butter in the bowl of electric mixer and beat on
  medium speed 1 minute. Scrape down bowl and beat on high speed
  additional 30 seconds. Scrape down bowl. Add eggs, 1 at a time, while
  beating on medium, stopping to scrape down bowl after incorporating
  each addition.
  
  Add vanilla and beat on medium 30 seconds. Add melted baking
  chocolate and beat on low 10 seconds more. Scrape down bowl and beat
  additional 30 seconds. Add flour mixture and beat on low until
  thoroughly combined, 20 to 30 seconds. Remove bowl from mixer, add
  chocolate chips and mix thoroughly with rubber spatula.
  
  Using 2 baking sheets, portion 6 to 8 cookies per baking sheet by
  dropping 2 level tablespoons batter per cookie onto each sheet. Place
  pans on top and middle shelves of oven. Bake 18 to 22 minutes,
  rotating sheets from top to bottom about halfway through baking time.
  Cool cookies on pans 5 to 6 minutes.
  
  Transfer cookies to wire rack. Repeat procedure until all cookies
  have been baked. Cool cookies thoroughly before storing in sealed
  plastic container.
  
  To prepare Chocolate Ganache: Heat cream, butter and sugar in medium
  saucepan over medium-high heat. When hot, stir to dissolve sugar.
  Bring mixture to boil.
  
  Place chocolate in stainless steel bowl and pour boiling cream over
  chocolate. Let stand 5 minutes. Stir until smooth. Cool to room
  temperature. (Ganache can be made 3 to 4 days ahead and refrigerated.
  Reheat, stirring. Bring to room temperature before using.)
  
  Put ganache in a serving bowl, so guests can dip their cookies in
  before eating. Makes about 2 1/2 cups.
  
  Adapted from "Death by Chocolate" Marcel Desaulniers.
  
  Makes 3 to 3 1/2 dozen cookies.
  
  From the Oregonian's FOODday, 2/9/93.
  
  Posted by Stephen Ceideburg
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Acorn Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Egg whites, beaten stiff
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
     20    Soda crackers
           (coarsley broken)
    1/2 c  Pecans, chopped
 
  Beat egg whites until stiff; add baking powder and beat more.  Add
  sugar and vanilla; beat again.  Fold in crackers and pecans.  Put in
  buttered pie plate and bake at 300 degrees for 30 minutes.  Let cool
  and top with Cool Whip and chopped pecans.
  
  Randy Rigg
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A Peach Of A Raspberry Cobbler (Cover Dessert)
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Butter-flavor shortening or
           -shortening
    1/3    To 1/2 cup ice-cold water
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
      4 c  Peeled and sliced peaches
      3 c  Fresh red raspberries,
           -blackberries or
           -blueberries
           -(or use frozen loose-pack
           -berries)
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1    Egg yolk
      1 tb Milk
      1 ts Sugar
           -Cream or Ice cream
 
  Source: MIDWEST LIVING AUGUST 1994 p.102 Annual Raspberry Festival;
  Hopkins, Minnesota From: Sallie Krebs
  
  The homey dessert on our cover is a favorite from our Test Kitchen. It
  combines raspberries and peaches. A flaky, woven crust tops the fruit
  filling.
  
  1. For cobbler crust, in a mixing bowl, combine the flour and salt.
  Cut in shortening till mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Gradually
  pour in water and blend to form a dough. Divide into two portions of
  one-third and two-thirds.
  
  2. On waxed paper, pat or roll the larger portion of dough to form a
  12-inch square. Fit into the bottom and up the sides of an 8x8x2-inch
  baking dish. Trim pastry even with top of the dish.
  
  3. In a large bowl, stir together the 1 1/2 cups sugar, cornstarch,
  cinnamon and nutmeg. Stir in peaches and berries. Transfer to
  pastry-lined baking dish. Dot with butter or margarine.
  
  4. Roll remaining pastry into a 9x8-inch rectangle. Cut into eight
  1-inch-wide strips. Arrange over raspberries in a lattice. Trim to
  fit dish or tuck under bottom pastry.
  
  5. Mix the yolk with the milk. Brush the mixture over pastry.
  Sprinkle with 1 teaspoon sugar.
  
  6. Place on a baking sheet. Bake in a 375-F oven for about 60 minutes
  or till crust browns, and filling is bubbly. Serve warm with cream or
  ice cream. From: Sallie Krebs Date: 14 Jun 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Teatime Meringues
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lg Egg whites
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Seedless red raspberry jam
      1 pt Strawberries
    1/2 pt Raspberries
    1/2 pt Blackberries
           Mint sprigs for garnish
 
  Line large cookie sheet (17" by 14") with foil. Using 3-inch standard
  star-shape cookie cutter as a guide, with toothpick, trace 4 evenly
  spaced star outlines on foil, leaving at least 3 inches space all
  around each star.
  
  In small bowl, with mixer at high speed, beat egg whites and cream of
  tartar until soft peaks form. Sprinkle in sugar, 2 tablespoons at a
  time, beating well after each addition until sugar dissolves and
  whites stand in stiff, glossy peaks.
  
  Preheat oven to 200'F. Spoon two-thirds of meringue into decorating
  bag fitted with coupler and large star tube. Pipe meringue around
  out- line of the traced stars on foil to make four stars, each about
  5 to 6 inches wide. Fill centers of stars with meringue.
  
  Change tube on decorating bag to medium star tube; spoon remaining
  meringue into bag. Pipe a slightly smaller star on top of each
  existing star. With spoon, form small indentation in center of each
  meringue star.
  
  Bake stars 3 hours or until meringues are crisp but not brown. Cool
  completely on cookie sheet on wire rack. If not using stars right
  away, store in tightly covered container.
  
  About 1O minutes before serving, in medium bowl, stir raspberry jam
  until smooth. Cut each strawberry into quarters. Add all berries to
  bowl with jam; toss to coat. On each of 4 dessert plates, spoon fruit
  compote over meringue stars; garnish with mint sprigs.
  
  Good Housekeeping/May'94/scanned & fixed by DP & GG
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Salad Platter
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Envelopes unflavored gelatin
      1    (16oz) container low-fat
           -cottage cheese (1%)
      1    (8oz) container light cream
           -cheese
      2    (8oz) container lemon-flavor
           -low-fat yogurt
      1 cn (6oz) frozen lemonade
           -concentrate
      2    Kiwifiuit
      1    Papaya
      1 sm Honeydew melon
      1    Star fruit (carambola)
      1 pt Strawberries
    1/2 pt Blackberries
           Garnish: fresh mint sprigs
 
  ABOUT 4 HOURS BEFORE SERVING OR EARLY IN DAY:
  
  1. In 1-quart saucepan, evenly sprinkle unflavored gelatin over 3/4
  cup cold water, let stand 1 minute to soften gelatin slightly. Cook
  over medium heat, stirring frequently, until gelatin completely
  dissolves.
  
  2. In food processor with knife blade attached, or in blender at high
  speed, blend cottage cheese until very smooth, about 2 minutes. Spoon
  cream cheese, yogurt, frozen lemonade concentrate, and gelatin
  mixture into food processor or blender and continue blending until
  well mixed.
  
  3. Pour mixture into 8-cup ring mold; cover and refrigerate until
  set, at least 3 hours.
  
  4. To serve, peel and cut kiwifruit into wedges. Cut papaya into
  wedges. Cut honeydew melon into chunks. Slice star fruit. Carefully
  unmold gelatin onto lg chilled platter. Serve with fruit. Garnish
  with fresh mint sprigs.
  
  Each serving: About 405 calories, 9 g fat, 21 mg cholesterol, 595 mg
  sodium.
  
  Good Housekeeping/July'94/scanned & fixed by DP & GG
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Stuffed Nectarines - Country Living
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 tb Whole unblanched almonds
      8    1 3/4-inch almond macaroons
      6 tb (3/4 stick) unsalted butter,
           -softened
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
      1    Large egg yolk
    1/2    To 1 t  kirsch
      8 md Firm, ripe nectarines
      1 tb Unsalted butter, melted
           Creme Anglaise (opt.,
           -recipe follows)
           Fresh blackberries or
           -raspberries (opt.)
           Fresh mint sprigs (opt.)
 
  1. Heat oven to 350'F. On rimmed baking sheet, toast almonds 6 to 7
  minutes until lightly browned. Chop almonds into 1/8- to 1/4-inch
  chunks.
  
  2. Place macaroons between two sheets of waxed paper; using your
  hands or rolling pin, crush macaroons into small chunks-not a fine
  powder.
  
  3. In small bowl, with electric mixer at medium speed, beat softened
  butter and the sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg yolk and
  continue beating until light and fluffy again. Beat in crushed
  macaroons, almond chunks, and desired amount of kirsch until well
  blended.
  
  4. Rinse and dry nectarines; cut in half or lengthwise by slicing
  along natural seam and twisting. Remove pits; with small spoon, scoop
  out about 1 T nectarine flesh from each half and refrigerate for
  another purpose.
  
  5. Increase oven temperature to 375'F. Grease shallow 11-by 9-inch
  baking dish; arrange nectarines in dish. Divide macaroon filling
  among nectarines; brush tops with melted butter.
  
  6. Bake nectarines 15 minutes or until macaroon mixture is slightly
  browned and nectarines are tender when pierced with tip of knife.
  (Nectarines should still hold their shape.) Let nectarines stand
  about 10 minutes or until cool enough to handle. Using sharp knife,
  remove and discard skins of nectarines.
  
  7. Meanwhile, prepare Creme Anglaise, if desired, and spoon some onto
  8 serving plates. Place 2 nectarine halves on each plate over Creme
  Anglaise; garnish with berries or mint sprigs, if desired. Serve at
  room temperature.
  
  Creme Anglaise: In 1-quart saucepan, warm 2 C milk, 3 T sugar, and a
  1-inch piece of vanilla bean, split and scraped, until sugar
  dissolves. In small bowl, with wire whisk, beat 4 large egg yolks
  until smooth but not frothy. Gradually whisk in about a quarter of
  warrn milk mixture, then return yolk mixture to saucepan of milk and
  cook, stirring constantly over very low heat until a custard forms
  that coats the spoon. Strain the custard into a bowl; serve or cool
  to room temperature, then refrigerate, covered, until cool.
  
  Nutrition information per serving without Creme Anglaise-protein: 3
  grams; fat; 17 grams; carbohydrate: 13 grams; fiber: 1 gram; sodium:
  40 milligrams; cholesterol: 54 milligrams; calories: 206
  
  Country Living/April/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mixed Salad with Blackberries and Walnuts
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      1    Bunch arugula;
      1 sm Head radicchio;
      1    Boston lettuce;
    1/2 ts Prepared mustard;
      1 cl Garlic; pressed;
           Coarse salt to taste;
           Freshly ground pepper;
           -to taste
      1 tb Balsamic vinegar;
      2 tb Heavy cream;
    1/2 c  Gorgonzola cheese
    1/4 c  Blackberries;
 
  (1).  Trim the roots and stalks from the arugula.  Wash the leaves.
  Wash radicchio and boston lettuce leaves.  Pat dry with towel. (2).
  In a large bowl, whisk together the mustard and olive oil.  Add the
  garlic, salt, pepper, vinegar and heavy cream.  Whisk until almost
  smooth. Add the salad leaves and toss. (3). Arrange the salad on a
  plate and sprinkle on the crumbled Gorgonzola, walnuts and
  blueberries. Source: The San Diego Union-Tribune, Food Section, Apr.
  6, 1995., + Recipe of the Week and The New York Times Gourmet
  Shopper. Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her
  Meal-Master. Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon tart
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    250 g  Sweet flan pastry
           Butter and flour for the
           - tart tin

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3    Eggs
      1    Egg yolk
      3    Lemons; juice
      1    Orange; juice
  1 1/2 dl Double cream
    150 g  Sugar
 
  Pre-heat the oven to 260 oC (500 oF).
  
  Butter and lightly flour a 20 cm tart tin with a removable base. Line
  it with the pastry and blind-bake it for 10-15 minutes. Take care to
  protect the pastry with a disc of aluminium foil, which should be
  pressed up to and over the edges before it is weighted down. When
  itis cooked, let it cool without taking it out of the tin. Lower the
  oven temperature to 180 oC (350 oF).
  
  Whisk all the ingredients for the tart filling together - the eggs,
  orange and lemon juice, cream and sugar.
  
  When the mixture is nice and frothy, pour most of it into the tart
  shell. The mixture needs to come right to the top, but to avoid
  spilling it put the partly filled tart into the oven (with the
  temperature now reduced) and finish filling it with a spoon.
  
  Bake the tart with the oven door ajar, and wait until the filling has
  become firm. This should take about 35 minutes. Check the firmness of
  the filling by giving the tin a little shake.
  
  Take the tart out of the tin when it is lukewarm and leave it on a
  cake rack to cool.
  
  (From: Fredy Girardet, Cuisine spontanee)
  Submitted By RENE GAGNAUX   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet flan pastry
 Categories: Pastry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    300 g  Unsalted butter
    500 g  Plain flour
    150 g  Sugar
      1 ds Salt
      1    Egg yolk
      1    Egg
 
  Put the butter, cut into pieces, with the flour, sugar and salt, into
  a mixer. Work it until the mixture resembles coarse semolina.
  
  Add the egg yolk and the whole egg and do not work the machine for a
  moment longer than necessary (VERY IMPORTANT) to amalgamate the eggs
  with the flour mixture. Form it into a ball and leave it to rest in
  the refrigerator for several hours before using it.
  
  (The pastry will keep very well in the refrigerator for a few days,
  wrapped in transparent film)
  
  From: Fredy Girardet, Cuisine spontanee, M Papermac, 1986, ISBN
  0-333-40957-4
  Submitted By RENE GAGNAUX   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Drambuie Souffle
 Categories: Desserts, Hot/spicy, Alcohol, British isl
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lg Eggs; separated
      1 oz Butter
      1 oz Plain flour
    1/4 pt Milk
      3 oz Caster sugar
      4 tb Drambuie
           Vanilla essence

MMMMM---------------------------SOURCE--------------------------------
           -- Janet Warren, A feast of
           -- Scotland, 1990
           -- ISBN 1-85051-112-8
           -- Typed by Rene Gagnaux
 
  Although this souffle is delicious on its own or with single cream,
  try it with a sauce made from (scottish) raspberries - you will find
  the combination superb.
  
  Lightly butter a souffle dish (2-pint for 4 servings) and sprinkle it
  which caster sugar.
  
  Melt the butter, stir in the flour, remove from the heat and gradually
  blend in the milk. When the sauce is smooth return it to the heat and
  bring it to the boil to thicken, stirring all the time. Stir in the
  egg yolks one at a time, then beat in the caster sugar with the
  Drambuie and vanilla essence.
  
  Whisk the egg whites until they stand in soft peaks, then using a
  metal spoon lightly and quickly fold them into the sauce mixture.
  
  Turn the souffle into the dish and bake it in the middle of the oven
  at 190 oC (375 oF) for about 40 minutes or until it is well risen and
  golden brown.
  
  Scatter a little icing sugar over the top then serve immediately.
  Submitted By RENE GAGNAUX   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irma's Monk in a Nightshirt
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Chocolate, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 oz Whole hazelnuts; roasted
           -- and chopped
      4 oz Caster sugar
      4 oz Butter
      5    Eggs; separated
      4 oz Chocolate; grated
      4 oz Whole hazelnuts; roasted
           -- ground finely but still
           -- crunchy

MMMMM-------------------------DECORATION------------------------------
      3 dl Double cream
           -- lightly whipped

MMMMM--------------------------CREDITS-------------------------------
           -- Source: Felicity & Roald
           -- Dahl, Memories with Food
           -- at Gipsy House, 1991
           -- ISBN 0-670-83462-9
           -- Typed by Rene Gagnaux
 
  Butter a bowl and line with the roasted and chopped hazelnuts.
  
  Mix caster sugar and butter, add egg yolks slowly. Add grated
  chocolate and ground nuts.
  
  Beat egg wthites until stiff and gently fold into mixture. Turn into
  the lined bowl, cover with a double layer of greaseproof paper and
  tie firmly with string. A double strip of kitchen foil laid under the
  bowl and projecting up the sides will make lifting it out easier.
  
  Place the bowl in a large saucepan 3/4-full of water and steam for 2
  hours.
  
  Carefully turn out on to a serving plate. Just before serving, pour
  over some of the lightly whipped cream. Serve the remaining cream
  separately. Submitted By RENE GAGNAUX   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Penne W/Garlic Sauce
 Categories: Vegetables, Main dish, Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Penette pasta
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Olive oil
      2 tb Garlic clove minced
      4 ea Bacon strips
      6 md Garlic clove
      3 md Tomato raw, 1 medium
    1/2 c  Wine table, white
  1 1/2 c  Cream, heavy whipping
    1/2 c  Parmesan grated
    1/2 ts Basil
 
  The 6 cloves of garlic is really a head of garlic. Slice the top off
  place in an oven pan and drizzle olive oil over it. Roast about 3/4
  hour in a 250 oven.  Cook the penne per
  
  instructions, leave a little al dente. Rinse and coat with olive oil
  to prevent sticking together. Sauce: In a skillet over high heat add
  olive oil and finely chopped bacon. Cook until golden add the roasted
  head of garlic by squeezing the soft garlic into the pan. Cook for
  awhile to reduce then add white wine. Stirring occasionally continue
  to reduce. Add the cream, tomato and basil continue to reduce. Slowly
  stir in the grated parmesan and blend into smooth sauce. When
  reduction is complete add the penne and cook to heat it through.
  ~--end Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Cabbage Soup
 Categories: Vegetables, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      2 md Onion
      1 ea Cabbage head
     10 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
      6 ea Slices Whole wheat bread
      8 oz Fontina, sliced
      1 c  Parmesan grated
 
  slice the cabbage into thin strips. slice the onions thinly. melt
  butter under medium heat and then saute the onions about 5 or 6
  minutes. Add the sliced cabbage and sweat stirring occasionally to
  blend flavors. Add broth and bring to a boil. Cover and lower heat to
  a simmer for about 1 hour. In oven proof bowls add a slice of wheat
  bread in the bottom of each. Ladle in the soup and cover with a slice
  of fontina cheese. Sprinkle with grated parmesan cheese. Place in a
  350 degree oven until cheese browns. ---end Submitted By HENRY
  REINTGES   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Mushroom Veg Barley Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Onion chopped
  1 1/2 tb Garlic clove minced
    1/2 ts Thyme, ground
    1/2 ea Bay leaf
      1 lb Mushrooms fresh
    1/2 c  Barley, dry
      4 ea Celery stalk
      5 md Carrot
     96 oz Chicken broth canned
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      2 tb Parsley fresh
 
  Clean and quarter the fresh mushrooms. Cut celery and carrots into
  1/2 inch pieces. Place oil in a large pot. Add chopped onions; cook
  over low heat for about 10 minutes until wilted. Add garlic, thyme
  and bay leaf. Add mushrooms and cook for 20 minutes over medium heat,
  stirring. Add the barley, celery, carrots and broth. Season with salt
  and pepper to taste and the nutmeg.  Bring to a boil, reduce heat to
  medium low and simmer 25 to 30 minutes or until barley and vegetables
  are tender. Skim off any foam that rises to the top. Remove bay leaf.
  Stir in the parsely just before serving piping hot. Clean mushrooms
  with damp towel never wash in water. ---end Submitted By HENRY
  REINTGES   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aromatic Meadow Tea
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 oz Chamomile Flowers
    3/4 oz Catnip
      1 oz Sweet Marjoram
    1/2 oz Mint
           Yield, 3 Oz.
           Combine and store in
           -airtight container.
 
  for 1 cup tea, pour a cup of boiling water over 2 teaspoons of herb
  blend and steep for 5 to 10 mins.  Strain and drink warm. From:
  "HEIRLOOM HERBS - Using Old-Fashioned Herbs in GArdens, Recipes and
  Decorations" by Mary Forsell.  1990 Running HEads Inc. (my
  note...this is an absolutely charming book, a "coffee table" book
  full of lovely photographs of breathtaking herb gardens.  The text
  contains history of herbal uses through the generations, as well as
  recipes, current day usage, etc. It's a true delight to browse
  through.  mgc)
  
  Submitted By MARGE CLARK   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tunisian Garbanzos And Swiss Chard
 Categories: Vegetables, Vegetarian, Main dish, African
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Swiss Chard leaves, stemmed,
           -rinsed and torn into lg.
           -pieces.
      2 lg Garlic cloves, peeled
    1/2 ts Coarse salt
      1 ts Ground coriander
      1 sm Dried red chile
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Minced Onion
      2 ts Tomato paste
      1 c  Cooked garbanzos, or 1 15 oz
           -can garbanzos, liquid
           -reserved
    3/4 c  Cooking liquid from
           -garbanzos
      1    Lemon cut in wedges
 
  In a pot, steam the chard leaves until tender, about 5 minutes.  Set
  leaves in a colander to drain.  Squeeze out the excess moisture and
  shred coarsely.
  
  Crush garlic in a mortar with salt, coriander and chile until a thick,
  crumbly paste forms.
  
  Heat olive oil in a 10 inch skillet and saute onion until pale
  golden. Add garlic paste and tomato paste and stir into oil until
  sizzling. Add chard, garbanzos, and cooking liquid, and cook,
  stirring occasionally for 10 minutes.  Remove from heat and let stand
  until ready to serve. Serve warm, at room temperature, or cold, with
  lemon wedges. (I think it is best when warm or at room temp).
  
  Per serving:  165 calories, 667 mg sodium, 0 cholesterol, 8 gm fat
  
  From the LA Times food section, a couple weeks ago.
  
  From: Hilde Mott                      Date: 26 Jun 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STIR-FRIED BOK CHOY IN GARLIC OIL
 Categories: Wok, Side dish, Chinese, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Peanut oil
      1 ts Salt
      4    Garlic cloves
           - lightly crushed & peeled
  1 1/2 lb Bok choy
           - cut into 1-in pieces
 
  HEAT THE WOK over a high flame for 1 minute. Add the oil, and when
  the oil is very hot (this will take just a few seconds; pass your
  hand over it to feel the heat, or look for a wisp of smoke), add the
  salt, garlic and bok choy. A common mistake is to skimp on oil in
  stir-frying vegetables, which makes them dry out and burn. Use enough
  oil to coat the vegetables thinly but thoroughly. This may be
  prepared in advance and served cold.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK ...downloaded from: Salata
  *Redondo Beach, CA (310)-543-0439 (1:102/125)
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fusilli With Crabmeat and Sauce Verde
 Categories: Seafood, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2    Bunches fresh dill
  1 1/2 c  Parsley leaves
      3    Green onions; sliced
      2 tb Capers
      2 tb ;water
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper, ground
      8 oz Sour cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 lb Lump crabmeat
  1 1/2 lb Fusilli; cooked
 
    Puree dill, parsley, green onion, capers, water, lemon juice, salt
  and pepper in food processor.  Transfer to large bowl.  Stir in sour
  cream and mayonnaise.  Fold in crabmeat and pasta.  This dish tastes
  best if made a day ahead and refrigerated.
    Makes 8 servings at $3.28 each.  Prep:  20 minutes
    Per serving:  342 calories, 14 g protein, 18 g fat, 31 g
  carbohydrate, 524 mg sodium, 38 mg cholesterol.
    Source:  Family Circle 6/27/95
    Typos by Elizabeth Wood.
  Submitted By ELIZABETH WOOD   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Blackberry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Dips/spread
      Yield: 2 pints
 
  2 1/2 lb Blackberries
  1 1/2 lb Sugar
 
  Wash berries thorughly, remoce caps and crush berries. Heat slowly to
  boiling, stirring constantly. Add sugar and continue cooking rapidly
  until mixture gives test for jelly. Pour into sterile jars and seal.
  If seedless jam is desired rub cooked berries thru seive before
  adding sugar. Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Peach Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Dips/spread
      Yield: 18 ounces
 
           Peaches
    3/4 lb To 1 lb sugar
 
  Wash peaches, dip in boiling water for about 1/2 minute and plunge
  into cold water. Slip off skins, cut fruit into halves and discard
  stones. Use 1 pound prepared fruit. Crush fruit and arrange in layers
  with sugar. Let stand 3 to 4 hours, then heat slowly until the sugar
  is dissolved, stirring constantly. Heat to boiling and cook rapidly
  until fruit is clear and jam is thick. Pour into sterile jars and
  seal. Makes 3 (6 oz) glasses. APRICOT - Make as above using 3/4 pound
  sugar to each pound of fruit. Add 2 Tablespoons lemon juice.
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buffalo Chicken Wings with Blue Cheese Dippin
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 36 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------CHICKEN WINGS----------------------------
      6 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Hot pepper sauce
           Vegetable oil; for frying
     18    Chicken wings (about 3 lb)
           -disjointed with tips
           -discarded

MMMMM-----------------BLUE CHEESE DIPPING SAUCE----------------------
    1/4 lb Blue cheese; roquefort or
           -gorgonzola
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Wine vinegar
        ds Hot pepper sauce
 
  1.  Melt butter in a small saucepan.  Add hot sauce and remove from
  heat.
  
  2.  In large frying pan or deep-fat fryer, heat 1 inch of oil to
  375F. Fry wings in batches without crowding until golden brown, 10 to
  15 minutes. Drain on paper towels.
  
  3.  Brush wings with spicy butter and serve warm, with blue cheese
  dipping sauce.
  
  Sauce:
  
  In a small bowl, mash the blue cheese, leaving some clumps. Whisk in
  the mayonnaise until blended.  Add remaining ingredients and whisk to
  blend well.  Cover and refrigerate until serving time.
  
  From:  365 Ways to Cook Chicken Collected from the Int'l Fido Cooking
  Echoes
  Submitted By JOELL ABBOTT   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Summer Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn (16 oz) black beans,
           Rinsed, drained
      4 ea Ounces monterey jack cheese
           Cut into 1/4" cube
      1 cn (8 oz) whole kernel
           Corn, drained*
    3/4 c  Sliced green onions
           With tops
    3/4 c  Thinly sliced celery
      1 sm Red bell pepper, diced
    3/4 c  Pace Picante Sauce
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ea Clove garlic, minced
 
  Combine beans, cheese, corn, green onions, celery and red pepper in
  large bowl.  Combine picante sauce, oil, lemon juice, cumin and
  garlic; mix well. Toss with bean mixture.  Chill, if desired. Serve
  with additional picante sauce.
  
  * 1 cup fresh corn, cooked, may be substituted.
  
  Source: Summer 91 Pace Picante Newsletter
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By MIKE NICHOLS  SUBJ BLACK BEANS???    On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean Salad with Three Roasted Peppers
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Black (turtle) beans, soaked
           -overnight and drained
      2 sl 1/4" thick, fresh Ginger
      1 ea Bay leaf
      5 c  Water
      2 lg Red, Orange, & Yellow
           Bell Pepper

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      1 ts Cumin Seeds
      1 ts Coriander Seeds, Crushed
      2 tb Fresh Lime Juice
      1 ts Lime Zest
      3 tb Chopped Cilantro
      1 sm Avocado
      2 ea Ripe Salad Tomatoes,
           -peeled, seeded and
           -chopped
      1 lb Green Beans, Trimmed
           -and steamed until
           -tender
    1/2 tb Fresh Lime Juice
           Olive Oil Spray
    1/4 ts Herb Salt
    3/4 c  Tomato-Vegetable
           Juice or
           Water
      1 ea Roasted Pepper From
           Salad
      1 ea - 2 T Virgin Olive
           Oil
 
  Place the drained beans, ginger, bay leaf and water in a saucepan and
  bring to a boil.  Cover, reduce heat to LOW and gently boil until
  beans are tender, 45-75 min.  Drain the beans and cool them in clear
  water. Drain again, transfer to a bowl and spray the beans with olive
  oil. Gently mix with your hands and set aside, covered [May be
  prepared 1 or 2 days in advance, covered and refrigerated].
  
  Individually roast the Peppers over open heat until they are evenly
  charred.  Place them in a covered bowl to steam for 10 min., then
  scrape off the charred skins with a knife.  Slit the peppers open;
  seed and de-vein them, and cut into long slivers. To make the
  dressing, roast the cumin and coriander seeds in a small pan over
  moderate heat until they darken a few shades.  Place the seeds, the
  remaining dressing indgredients, and one roasted pepper in a blender
  and process until creamy. Just before serving, peel, seed and dice
  the avocado, sprinkle with lime juice. Pour 1 third of the dressing
  over the beans and gently mix.  On individual plates or a platter,
  arrange black beans, peppers and tomatoes, green beans and avocado.
  Top with remaining dressing and drizzle with olive oil.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By MIKE NICHOLS  SUBJ BLACK BEANS???    On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Chicken German Style   Fggt98b
 Categories: Poultry, Aust/german
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  (1 stick) butter or
           Margarine
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 c  Chicken broth
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 ts Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      8 oz Egg noodles -- cooked &
           Drained
      3 c  Cooked -- diced chicken
    2/3 c  Grated parmeasan cheese
      2 ts Paprika
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. degrees.  Melt butter in large saucepan over
  medium low heat.  Whisk in flour and stir 3 minutes.  Gradually whisk
  in broth and milk. Reduce heat, simmering until thick--about 10
  minutes. Blend in lemon juice and seasonings. Combine cooked noodles
  and half the sauce, tossing gently to blend. Place in the bottom of a
  buttered 2-quart casserole. Top with chicken and remaining sauce.
  Combine Parmesan cheese and paprika, sprinkle over casserole. Bake
  until bubbling and golden brown--about 30 minutes. Serve hot. YIELD:
  6--8 servings of Baked Chicken German Style SOURCE: Puddin' Hill
  Cookbook
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bamberger Krautbraten (Bramberger Meat & Cabbage)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Cabbage; Head -- Small
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2    Onions; Medium -- Chopped
    1/2 c  White Wine -- Dry
    1/2 lb Pork; Lean -- Cubed
      1 ts Vegetable Oil
      1 lb Ground Beef -- Lean
      3    Bacon; Strips -- Thick
           Sliced
      1 ts Caraway Seeds
 
  Remove outer, wilted cabbage leaves and core.  Place cabbage in a
  large pot of boiling water and simmer gently for 10 minutes. Remove
  and drain. gently pull off 12 leaves and set aside. Finely chop the
  rest of the cabbage. Heat 1 T vegetable oil; add onio Drain off
  excess fat. Add the chopped cabbage, caraway seeds, salt, and pepper.
  Pour in the white wine. Cover and simmer the mixture for 10 minutes,
  stirring often. Grease an ovenproof dish with 1 t of vegetable oil;
  line the dish with half the cabbage
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bavarian Potato Salad
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Potatoes; *
      2 c  Chicken Broth
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Vegetable Oil
    1/3 c  Onions,chopped
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Lemon Juice
           Pepper; As Desired
 
  *    Potatoes should be peeled and sliced 1/4-inch thick. **   Chicken
  broth may be either home made or commercial.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++ Boil potatoes in broth with 1/4 t salt for 5 to 8 minutes, until
  tender. Drain.  Toss warm potatoes with vegetable oil and onions.
  Dissolve remaining 1/4 t salt and the sugar in lemon juice.  Pour
  over potatoes. Marinate salad 1 to 2 hours before serving.  Serve at
  room temperature.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bavarian Sausage Salad
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Knockwurst; Cooked / Cooled
      2 ea Pickles; Small
      1 ea Onion; Medium
      3 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Mustard; Prepared *
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 tb Capers
      1 tb Parsley; Chopped
 
  *  Mustard must be the strong Djon or Gulden Type.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++ Cut the knockwurst into small cubes.  Mince the pickles and
  onion. Mix together the vinegar, mustard and oil.  Add salt, pepper,
  paprika and sugar.  Adjust seasonings if desired.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bavarian Veal
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Veal; Cut In 4 Thin Slices
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Pepper,White
      1 tb Mustard; Dijon Style
      4 ea Bacon; Slices
      4 ea Eggs; Large, Hard Cooked
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      1 ea Onion; Medium, Diced
    3/4 c  Beef Bouillon; Heated
      1 tb Tomato Paste
      2 tb Unbleached Flour
    1/4 c  Red Wine
 
  Dry veal on paper towels.  Roll in a mixture of salt, sugar, white
  pepper, and mustard.  Place a bacon slice on top of each piece of
  veal.  Place an unsliced egg on top of the bacon.  Rollup each slice
  of veal (jelly-roll fashion) and tie together with st
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bavarian Veal With Asparagus
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Veal; Cubed
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      1 ea Onion; Large, Chopped
      1 c  Carrots; Chopped
      1 tb Parsley; Chopped
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice; Fresh
      2 c  Beef Broth
      3 tb Unbleached Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper;Fresh Ground,To
           Taste
     20 oz Frozen Asparagus; * OR
      2 lb Asparagus; Fresh **
 
  *   Frozen Asparagus should be tips and pieces. (2 boxes (10 Oz
  Each)) ** Fresh Asparagus should be cleaned and cut into 1-inch
  pieces.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++ In a Dutch oven brown the veal in hot oil.  Add onion and
  carrots. Cook until onion is transparent.  Stir in parsley.  Mix
  lemon juice, broth, flour and seasonings until well-ble
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bayerischer Mit Spargel (Barvarian Veal With Asparagus)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Veal -- Cubed
      2 c  Beef Broth
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      3 tb Unbleached Flour
      1    Onion; Large -- Chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Carrots -- Chopped
           Pepper;Fresh Ground -- To
           Taste
      1 tb Parsley -- Chopped
     20 oz Frozen Asparagus -- * OR
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice -- Fresh
      2 lb Asparagus -- Fresh **
 
  *   Frozen Asparagus should be tips and pieces. (2 boxes (10 Oz
  Each)) ** Fresh Asparagus should be cleaned and cut into 1-inch
  pieces. +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++ In a Dutch oven brown the veal in hot oil. Add
  onion and carrots. Cook until onion is transparent. Stir in parsley.
  Mix lemon juice, broth, flour and seasonings until well-blended. Stir
  into veal and serve immediately.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bayerischer Wurstsalat (Barvarian Sausage Salad)
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Knockwurst -- Cooked /
           Cooled
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Pickles -- Small
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Onion -- Medium
    1/4 ts Paprika
      3 tb Vinegar
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 tb Mustard -- Prepared *
      1 tb Capers
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      1 tb Parsley -- Chopped
 
  *  Mustard must be the strong Djon or Gulden Type.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++
   Cut the knockwurst into small cubes.  Mince the pickles and onion.
  Mix together the vinegar, mustard and oil. Add salt, pepper, paprika
  and sugar. Adjust seasonings if desired. Add the capers; mix well.
  Stir in the chopped knockwurst, pickles, and onions. Just before
  serving, garnish with chopped parsley.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bayrischer Kartoffelsalat (Barvarian Potato Salad)
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Potatoes -- *
    1/3 c  Onion -- Chopped
      2 c  Chicken Broth -- **
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Lemon Juice
    1/4 c  Vegetable Oil
           Pepper -- As Desired
 
  *    Potatoes should be peeled and sliced 1/4-inch thick. ** Chicken
  broth may be either home made or commercial.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++ Boil potatoes in broth with 1/4 t salt for 5 to 8
  minutes, until tender. Drain.  Toss warm potatoes with vegetable oil
  and onions. Dissolve remaining 1/4 t salt and the sugar in lemon
  juice. Pour over potatoes. Marinate salad 1 to 2 hours before
  serving. Serve at room temperature.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Paprikas W/Dumplings    Grandpa
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Chicken -- parts
      1 md Onion-  chopped fine
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Paprika
      2 c  Chicken bouillon
      1 ts Salt
      1 ds Pepper
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Sour cream
           Dumplings
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      2    Egg
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Cook  onion  in butter until tender.  Add paprika and blend.  Add
  chicken, cover and simmer 15 minutes. Add bouillon, salt and pepper.
  Cook until tender.  Remove chicken, keep warm. Mix flour and sour
  cream. Add to skillet juices, blend over medium heat until thickend
  without> the sauce separating, serve over chicken and dumplings.
  Combine all ingredien Mix until smooth.  Drop by 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoons
  into boiling salted water,>>>>>>>>>>>>> dipping spoon to prevent
  sticking. Dumplings are done when they rise to the top. Remove with
  slotted spoon. Serves 4. "Easy dinner in less than an hour" Our
  family lov
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Feuerzangenbowle
 Categories: Beverages, Aust/german
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Bottles of red wine
      1 sm Sugar hat
      1    Piece of orange peel
      1    Bottle of golden rum
      1    Piece of lemon peel
           At least 108 proof
      5    Cloves
 
  Put orange peel, lemon peel and cloves into a tea filter bag, tie
  shut with white yarn. Hang into a copper kettle, pour in wine. Heat
  up close to boiling point, but make sure it never gets to boil. Put
  the kettle in the middle of your table so all your gu
  
  Variation: Many people like to add sugar and/or a little orange juice
  (preferably freshly pressed).
  
  Typed for you by Volkhart Baumgaertner (58 min left), (H)elp, More?
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fred's German Potato Dumplings
 Categories: Aust/german
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Elayne Caldwell -KVNH17B
           Flour
      8    Red potatoes -- peeled and
           Salt
           Cut into fourths
           Oil potatoes in a kettle of
        l  Ender. Drain the water
 
  and, while hot, mash the potatoes "real good." Cool in the
  refrigerator. When cool, transfer the mashed potatoes to one end of
  an 8 1/2 x 13 x 2 inch cake pan or a lasagne pan.  Push and spread
  the potatoes to one end of the pan, keeping the potatoes about 2
  inches deep. Add the same amount of flour as there is potatoes to the
  Flour your hands well and mix and combine the potatoes and flour a
  little at a time, pushing some potatoes toward the center and then
  pushing some flour to the center, mixing and combining and pushing
  aside. Mix well. Flour your hands again and form into balls 2 to 2
  1/2-inches in diameter. Bring a kettle of water to a roiling boil.
  Coat the dumplings with more flour and, one at a time, add the potato
  dumplings to the boiling water. Boil for 20 to 30 minutes. This
  recipe was handed down to Dick Caldwell from his stepfather, Fred
  Koran, who made HIS dumplings at least 3 inches in diameter. One
  could compare them to cannonballs -- and once in your stomach, could
  possibly last all day and night into the next day.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburger Fischsalat (Hamburg-Style Fish Salad)
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      4    Eggs; Large -- Hard Cooked
      1 lb White Fish Fillets -- *
      2    Pickles -- Dill
    1/2 c  -- Hot Water
      1 tb Capers

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Mustard -- Dijon-style
      2 tb Sour Cream
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Pepper -- White

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1    Egg; Large -- Hard Cooked
      4    Beets; Canned -- Slices
 
  *    Fillets may be fresh or frozen.  They can include cod, turbot, or
  haddock. +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++  Melt butter in a frypan.  Place fish in frypan
  and pour hot water over fish.  Bring to a boil, cove Meanwhile slice
  the 4 hard cooked eggs and the pickles. Drain fish, cool and cut into
  cubes. Prepare salad sauce by blending mayonnaise, sour cream, lemon
  juice, mustard, salt, and pepper. In a separate bowl gently mix fish
  cubes, egg and pickle slices a Chill for 30 minutes. To garnish, cut
  remaining egg into eight pieces and chop beet slices.  Arrange
  garnish on each serving. Serve immediately.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Heringstopf Mit Saurer Sahne (Herring Salad With Sour Cre
 Categories: Aust/german, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------SOUR CREAM SAUCE---------------------------
      1 c  Sour Cream
           Lemon -- Juice Only
    1/2 c  Yogurt
    1/4 ts Sugar

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      2    Onions -- Small
      2 ts Dill -- Fresh OR
      2    Apples; Medium -- Tart
    1/2 ts Dillweed -- Dried
      8    Herring Fillets --
           Marinated
 
  Sauce: Blend thoroughly sour cream, yogurt, lemon juice and sugar.
  Salad: Peel onions and cut into thin slices.  Peel and quarter
  apples, remove cores and but into thin wedges. Blend onions and
  apples with sauce. In a dish arrange herring and apple-onion mixture
  in layers. Cover tightly and marinate in refrigerator for 5 hours.
  Sprinkle with dill before serving.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herring Salat (Herring Salad)
 Categories: Aust/german
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Salt herring -- cleaned and
      4 c  Apples -- peeled and
           Washed
           Quartered
      2 c  Boiled beef
      1 lg Onion
      1 c  Dill pickles
           Pepper to taste
      1 c  Pickled beets
 
  Put through food chopped, add pepper and mix. A little cream and
  sugar may be added. Source: Amana Colony Recipes - Family-size
  recipes of the foods prepared and served in the Amana Villages for
  over a century. Compiled by The Ladies Auxiliary of the Home Recipe By
  :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hochrippe Und Sauerkraut (Spareribs And Sauerkraut)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     32 oz Sauerkraut -- Canned (2
           Cans)
    1/2 ts Caraway Seeds
      3 lb Spareribs -- Country Style
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 ts Paprika
     10    Bacon; Slices -- Rolled
           InFlour
      6    Beef Bouillon Cubes
 
  Rinse and drain the sauerkraut.  Place sauerkraut in large 4-quart
  casserole.  Add 2 qts. hot water.  Add uncooked spareribs, paprika,
  bouillon cubes, caraway seeds, and pepper. Cook covered, over low
  heat, 3 to 4 hours. Fry floured bacon slices. Break ba Serve with
  dark bread and steins of beer.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jaegerschnitzel
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
 
        E  *****
  
  Get some pork- or veal-Schnitzels. Wash the meat; dry with a paper
  towel and rub with pepper, salt and just a little brown sugar. Cook
  in (real) butter in an open pan on both sides until the meat is done
  and takes on a nice brown. Set aside and keep hot. Stir in fresh
  cream (unwhipped) until you get a thick sauce. Pour on top of the
  Schnitzels, serve with french fries or croquettes. Variations: You
  might try to add a little cooking sherry, onions and/or garlic to the
  mushroom gravy (the onions and the gar
  
  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.10
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalbsschnitzel Mit Feinen Gemusen (Veal Rounds / Vegetabl
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 ts Salt -- Or To Taste
    1/4 ts Pepper -- Or To Taste
    1/4 ts Paprika -- Or To Taste
      4 ea Veal Fillets -- Cut 1/4"
           Thick
      4 tb Butter
      4 ea Stewed Tomatoes -- Whole
     12 ea White Asparagus Spears -- *
    1/4 lb Mushrooms; Fresh -- Sliced
 
  *  Asparagus Spears should be canned.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++ Sprinkle salt, pepper, and paprika over the veal slices.  Saute
  in butter until browned.  On each filletplace 1 stewed tomato, 3
  spears asparagus and a heaping T of mushrooms.  Coo Serve with pureed
  potatoes and a salad.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalbsschnitzel Mit Joghurt (Veal Steaks With Yogurt)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Veal -- Sliced Thin
      4    Apples -- Med. Peel And
           Slice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Evaporated Milk
    1/4 ts Pepper
      8 oz Yogurt -- Small Container
      3 tb Vegetable Oil
 
  Rub veal steaks with salt and pepper.  Heat oil and cook veal slices
  about 2 minutes on each side.  Place veal in an ovenproof casserole.
  Add cored, sliced apples. Blend evaporated milk and yogurt together.
  Spread over apples.  Place in a preheated 325 degree F. oven; cook
  just until bubbly, about 20 to 30 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalbsschnitzel In Currysosse (Veal Steaks in Curry Sauce)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Veal Cutlets -- Sliced Thin
      2 tb Evaporated Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Tomato Paste
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Lemon -- Juiced
    3/4 ts Curry Powder
     10    Parsley Sprigs -- Chopped
      3 tb Vegetable Oil
      2 tb Cognac Or Brandy
      2    Onions -- Diced
 
  Season veal with salt, pepper and 1/2 t curry powder. Heat oil; brown
  veal slices on both sides.  Remove meat and reserve. Add onions;
  saute until softened. Add evaporated milk and tomato paste. Cook
  until bubbly. Add lemon juice, rest of curry powder, and chopped
  parsley sprigs. Return veal slices to the sauce. Add the cognac or
  brandy; heat through. Serve on preheated platter.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kalsbrust Mit Krauterfullung (Veal Breast / Herbs)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------HERB STUFFING----------------------------
      3    Bacon -- Strips
    1/2 lb Ground Beef -- Lean
      1    Onion -- Medium
    1/2 c  Bread Crumbs -- Dry
      4 oz Mushroom Pieces -- (1 can)
      3    Eggs -- Large
    1/4 c  Fresh Parsley -- Chopped
    1/3 c  Sour Cream
      1 tb Dill; Fresh -- Chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Tarragon Leaves -- Dried
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Basil Leaves -- Dried

MMMMM----------------------------VEAL---------------------------------
      3 lb Boned Veal Breast -- OR
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
      4 lb Boned Leg Of Veal
      2 c  Beef Broth -- Hot
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
 
  Stuffing:
  
  To prepare stuffing, dice bacon and onion.  Cook bacon in a frypan
  until partially cooked; add onion and cook for 5 minutes. Drain and
  chop mushrooms, add to frypan and cook for another 5 minutes. Remove
  mixture from heat, let cool and transfer to a mixin
  
  Veal:
  
  With a sharp knife, cut a pocket in the veal breast or leg. Fill with
  stuffing; close opening with toothpicks. (Tie with string if
  necessary.) Rub outside with salt and pepper. Heat oil in a Dutch
  oven. Place meat in the pan and bake in a preheated 350 de
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kartoffelpuree Meerrettich (Mashed Potatoes/Horseradish)
 Categories: Aust/german, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5 ea Potatoes -- Medium
           -quartered
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter
           Pepper -- Freshly Ground
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
      1 tb Horseradish
      2 ts Parsley -- Minced
           Boiling Water
 
  Peel and quarter potatoes.  Cook in boiling salted water in
  medium-size saucepan until tender, drain.  Mash, adding 1 T butter
  and the pepper. Add sour cream, horseradish, and minced parsley.
  Whip as for mashed potatoes. Place in serving bowl; top with 1 T
  melted butter and serve.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kartoffelsalat Mit Biermarinade (Potato Salad/Beer Dressi
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 ea Potatoes -- Medium
      4 ea Bacon -- Slices
      1 tb Onion -- Chopped
      1 ea Celery; Stalk -- Chopped
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Unbleached Flour
    1/2 ts Mustard -- Dry
      1 tb Sugar
      1 c  Beer -- Any Brand
    1/2 ts Tobasco Sauce
      2 tb Parsley -- Chopped Fresh
 
  Boil potatoes in medium-size saucepan until just tender.  Peel and
  slice. Fry bacon until crisp.  Break into small pieces and mix with
  onion, celery and salt; set aside.  Stir melted butter and flour in a
  small saucepan until blended.  Add mustard and sugar.  Slowly stir in
  beer and Tabasco sauce. Bring to boil, stirring consta
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kirsch-Schnitzel (Veal Cutlets With Cherry Sauce)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Veal Cutlets -- Lean *
    1/4 c  Red Wine
      1 tb Vegetable Oil
      2 tb Evaporated Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
     16 oz Cherries;Tart, Canned --
           Drain
    1/8 ts Pepper -- White

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Parsley
 
  *  Veal cutlets should weigh about 6 oz each.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++ Pat cutlets dry with paper towels. Heat oil in
  frypan and brown cutlets on each side approximately 3 minutes. Season
  with salt and pepper. Remove cutlets from pan and keep them warm.
  Blend wine and evaporated milk in a pan and simmer for 3 minutes. Add
  cherries; heat through and adjust seasonings. Return cutlets to sauce
  and reheat, but DO NOT boil. Arrange cutlets on preheated platter,
  pouring cherry sauce around them. Garnish with p
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mohren Mit Geschnetzeltern (Beef Strips And Carrots)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Carrots
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
    2/3 c  Carbonated Soda Water
      2    Onions; Small -- Diced
      1 c  White Wine
    1/4 ts White Pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 tb Parsley -- Chopped
      1 lb Sirloin Steak
 
  Peel carrots and cut into thin slices (crosswise at a slant). Place
  in a saucepan with the soda water, wine, 1/2 t salt and sugar. Cover
  and simmer for 25 minutes or until tender.Meanwhile cut the meat into
  very thin slices.  Heat the vegetable oil and sa Stir in the cream.
  Heat through but DO NOT boil. Correct seasonings if necessary.
  Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parboiled White Coleslaw (Gebruehter Weisskrautsalat)
 Categories: Aust/german
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    2-lb cabbage head
           White pepper
      3    -4 Tbsp mild vinegar
      1 sm Pinch of sugar
      7    Strips
           Medium-lean bacon -- cut
           Into small squares
           Salt and freshly ground
 
  Cut the cabbage into quarters, remove the stem and tough outer
  leaves, and grate coarsely.  Add the grated cabbage to 4 quarts of
  boiling salted water and bring to a boil.  After 2 to 3 minutes, put
  in a colander to drain; shake it dry; press out the (66 While the
  cabbage is still lukewarm, put it into a salad bowl, sprinkle with
  vinegar, and mix well. Allow this to sit for several minutes. Shortly
  before serving, cook the diced bacon until the fat has been rendered
  and pour the entire contents of the skillet (fat and bacon) over the
  salad. Season to taste with salt, white pepper, and a little sugar.
  Makes 4 cups. (Note: If using red cabbage, add a Tbsp vinegar to the
  boiling water before adding the shredded cabbage. This will set the
  color of the cabbage. With red cabbage, many people prefer to
  substitute 1/3 cup salad oil for the bacon, which shou
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Pancake No. 2
 Categories: Aust/german, Breakfast
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Potatoes
           Directions:
      2 tb Flour
      1 sm Onion -- grated
      4    Strips Bacon, cooked
      2    Eggs -- beaten
           Crumbled
      1 pn Black pepper
      1 ts Salt
           Butter or margarine
      2 ts Chopped parsley
           More(Y/n/=)?
 
  Peel potatoes, wash with cold water and drain. Grate at once and
  drain off water that collects. Mix potatoes, onion, flour, bacon
  bits, eggs and seasonings, blending well. Heat butter in skillet.
  Just before butter browns, drop in 1/3 cup batter and flatt Should
  make approx. 12 pancakes. Best served with sour cream.
  
  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.10
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rosenkohl In Bier Gedunstet (Brussels Sprouts in Beer)
 Categories: Aust/german, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Brussels Sprouts -- Fresh
    1/2 ts Salt
           Beer; Any Brand -- To Cover
      2 tb Butter
 
  Trim and wash sprouts.  Place in a medium-size saucepan and pour
  enough beer over them to cover. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and
  simmer for 20 minutes or until tender. Add more beer if needed, as
  liquid evaporates. Drain; add salt and butter.
   Serve hot.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rostbraten Mit Pilzfulle (Beef Roast W/ Mushroom Stuffing
 Categories: Meats, Aust/german
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------ROAST--------------------------------
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 lb Flank Steak
    1/4 ts White Pepper
      1 ts Mustard -- Dijon Style

MMMMM---------------------MUSHROOM STUFFING--------------------------
      2 tb Vegetable Oil
      1 tb Tomato Paste
      1    Onion; Small -- Chopped
    1/2 c  Bread Crumbs -- Dried
      4 oz Mushroom Pieces -- *
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Parsley -- Chopped
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Chives -- Chopped
      1 ts Paprika

MMMMM---------------------------GRAVY--------------------------------
      3    Bacon; Strips -- Cubed
      1 ts Mustard -- Dijon Style
      2    Onions; Small -- Fine
           Chopped
      2 tb Tomato Catsup
      1 c  Beef Broth -- Hot
 
  *  Mushrooms should be 1 4 oz can of mushroom pieces drained and
  chopped. +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++
   Lightly salt and pepper flank steak.  Spread one side with mustard.
  
  To prepare stuffing, heat vegetable oil in a frypan, add onion and
  cook for 3 minutes, until lightly browned. Add mushroom pieces; cook
  for 5 minutes. Stir in parsley, chives, tomato paste, and bread
  crumbs. Season with salt and pepper and paprika. Spread stuffing on
  mustard side of the flank steak, roll up jelly-roll fashion and tie
  with thread or string.
  
  To prepare gravy, cook bacon in a Dutch oven until partially done.
  Add the meat roll and brown on all sides, approximately 10 minutes.
  Ad onions and saute for 5 minutes. Pour in the beef broth, cover
  Dutch oven, and simmer for 1 hour.  Remove meat to a pr
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerbraten No.3
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Lean beef roast
      6    Black peppercorns -- whole
      2 c  Cider vinegar
      2 tb Salt
      2 c  Water
      2 tb Sugar
      2 md Onions -- peeled sliced
           Thin
    1/4 c  Flour -- for dredging
      1    Lemon -- sliced thin
      6 tb Flour
     10    Whole cloves
      2 tb Cooking oil
      4    Bay leaves
      6    Gingersnaps
 
  Place the meat in a deep bowl.Pour over it the vinegar and water.Add
  onions,lemon,cloves,bay leaves,peppercorns,salt and sugar.Cover and
  place in refrigerator for a minimum of twodays,no longer than
  four.The longer it soaks,the stronger the taste.Turn mea When ready
  to cook,remove meat from liquid and dust lightly with flour,using up
  to 1/4 cup.Heat oil in large pot or dutch oven.Brown meat on all
  sides.Strain marinade,removing anddiscarding solids,keeping only
  clear liquid.Add 1 cup marinade liquid to mea When meat is
  done,remove from the pan.Crush the gingersnaps and combine with the 6
  tbs.flour.Blend with 2 cups reserved marinade liquid,then stir into
  liquid in pan and bring to boil.Cook,stirring until thickened.Serve
  hot,with meat.Meat is also good cold
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauerkrautsalat Mit Schinken (Sauerkraut Salad with Ham)
 Categories: Aust/german, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Sauerkraut -- (1 Lb Can)
      6 oz Ham -- Cooked
    1/2 lb Blue Grapes

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Yogurt
    1/4 ts Pepper -- White
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Honey
 
  Rinse and drain sauerkraut; chop coarsely.  Wash grapes and cut in
  half; remove seeds if desired.  Cut ham in julienne strips. Gently
  mix these 3 ingredients.  Blend dressing ingredients and stir into
  sauerkraut mixture. Marinate for 10 minutes; adjust seasoning before
  serving, if necessary.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Schweinekotelett In Zweibelsosse (Pork Chops/Onion Sauce)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Pork Chops
      4    Onions -- Small (2 med) *
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Beer
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Beef Broth -- Hot
  1 1/2 tb Unbleached Flour
      1 ts Cornstarch
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable Oil
 
  *    Onions are to be thinly sliced.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++ Season pork chops with salt and pepper; coat with
  flour. Heat oil in a heavy frypan. Add pork chops; fry for 3 minutes
  on each side. Add onions; cook for another 5 minutes, turning chops
  once. Pour in beer and beef broth; cover and simmer 15 minutes.
  Remove pork shops to a prehaeated platter. Season sauce to taste.
  Blend cornstarch with Blend cornstarch with a small amount of cold
  water. Stir into sauce and cook until thick and bubbly. Pour over
  pork chops. Serve with brussel sprouts and boiled potatoes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Schweinekoteletts In Saurer Sahnesosse (Pork/Sour Cream)
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Pork Chops
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Garlic Clove -- Minced
           Pepper -- As Desired
      1 ts Caraway Seeds -- Crushed
      1 c  White Wine -- Dry
      2 ts Hungarian Paprika -- Mild *
      1 c  Sour Cream (Optional)
 
  *  Use only Hungarian mild Paprika.  It is available at most larger
  stores and at specialty shops.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++++++++++++++++ Place the pork chops in an ovenproof casserole. Mix
  the remaining ingredients, except sour cream, and pour over the
  chops. Marinate the chops 2 to 3 hours in the refrigerator. Bake
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Uberbackener Spinat Mit Kase (Baked Spinach With Cheese)
 Categories: Aust/german, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Spinach -- Fresh *
    1/2 lb Emmenthaler Cheese --
           Grated
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 ts Paprika
      1    Onion; Large -- Diced
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      2    Garlic; Cloves -- Minced
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  *  Wash and clean spinach of sand.  Dry.
  +++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  ++++++++++++++++++
   Cut spinach into strips.  In a large Dutch oven, heat butter until
  bubbly. Add onion and garlic, saute for 2 to 3 minutes.  Add spinach.
  Sprinkle with salt.  Cover and steam for 5 minutes. Remove from heat.
  Grease an ovenproof casserole. Sprinkle half the cheese over the
  bottom of the casserole. Add the spinach.  Sprinkle with Top with
  remaining cheese. Bake at 360 degrees F about 20 minutes or until
  cheese bubbles.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Sauce #29
 Categories: Chocolate, Salsa/sauce, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           *INGREDIENTS*
      1 pt Raspberries, fresh
      2 tb Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Corn syrup, light
 
  *** My notes:  I used whole, frozen raspberries for this- NOT the kind
  frozen with sugar added!  I used a pint berry container to measure,
  so I'm not sure of how many cups that is.  The sauce was delicious!
  Fresh berries were unavailable at the time.
  
  Notes:  This is the most luxurious of all fruit sauces, for here we
  cheat nature by removing the thorns on the rose of the fruit world-
  the seeds of the raspberry.  Most raspberry sauces depend so much on
  sugar and thickening agents to achieve proper texture that they dull
  the fruit's naturally sharp flavor.  Here the sauce is thickened with
  the pulp of the berries themselves, creating a fruity, velvety,
  gleaming sauce worth making for the scent in your kitchen alone!
  Remember all fresh raspberries are not created equal; you may need to
  reduce the sauce more or less depending on their moisture content.
  
  1. Put raspberries and water in saucepan and bring to a boil over
  medium heat.  Use wooden spoon to stir in sugar, and cook for 5
  minutes, till berries are completely broken down.
  
  2. Pour berries into strainer over small bowl; allow to cool.  Then
  press through as much of the remaining juice and pulp as possible,
  till nothing remains in strainer but dry seeds.  You may use a spoon
  or rubber spatula for this, but your best tool here is your fingers,
  rubbing the pulp up the sides of the strainer.  Occasionally scrape
  the accumulation on the underside into the juice.  You may need to
  repeat this to remove all the seeds; if you do, whisk strained
  raspberries first.
  
  3. Whisk the pulp and juice together with the corn syrup, and return
  to saucepan.  Cook over medium heat another 10 minutes to clear sauce
  and reduce it to 1 cup.  Put in storage container and refrigerate.
  Serve cold.
  
  About keeping:  Will last up to 2 weeks, refrigerated, but if reboiled
  weekly will last several weeks longer.
  
  Yield:  1 cup sauce.
  
  Source:  Chocolate Fantasy Desserts by Robert Lambert
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Alaskas
 Categories: Pie/tart, Ice cream
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lg Patty shells, homemade or
           -frozen
      4    Egg white
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Fresh raspberries
      4    Scoops vanilla ice cream
 
  Over 90% of Canada's raspberies come from B.C.s Fraser Valley.  Berry
  lovers wait in anticipation until the month of July when the first
  succulent berries
  
  make their appearance.
  
  Bake patty shells in 450 F oven for 25 minutes.  Cool.  Whip egg
  whites until foamy. Gradually beat in sugar and continue beating
  until stiff meringue forms. Beat in vanilla. Place patty shells on
  baking sheet. Spoon raspberries into bottom of patty shells; top with
  scoop of ice cream. Spread meringue over, sealing well all around and
  mounding at top. Bake in 450F oven about 3 minutes until lightly
  browned. Serve immediately. Makes 4 servings.
  
  Origin:  The Great Canadian CookBook, part one, British Columbia
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RASPBERRY-LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING
 Categories: Desserts, Microwave, Fruit
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    3/4 c  Plus 2 tblsp. sugar, divided
      3 tb Corn starch
  1 1/2 c  1% low-fat milk
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2    Eggs, seperated
    1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
           Vegetable cooking spray
  1 1/4 c  Fresh raspberries (about 1
           -half-pint)
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
 
  RASPBERRY-LEMON MERINGUE PUDDING
  
  Combine 3/4 cup sugar and corn starch in a 1-quart glass measure; stir
  well. Gradually add milk, stirring with a wire wisk until blended.
  Microwave at HIGH 4 1/2 to 5 minutes or until thickened, stirring
  with a wire wisk after 3 minutes and then after every additional
  minutes.
  
  Combine lemon juice and egg yolks in a bowl, stirring with a wire wisk
  until lighty beaten. Gradually stir about one-fourth of hot mixture
  into yolk mixture; add to remaininghot mixture, stirring constantly.
  Microwave at MEDIUM (50% power) 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in lemon rind.
  Spoon 1/3 cup lemon mixture into each of 6 (6 oz.) souffle cups
  coated with cooking spray; divide raspberries evenly among cups.
  
  Beat egg whites (at room temperature) and cream of tartar until foamy.
  Gradually add remaining 2 tblsp. sugar, 1 teaspoon at a time, beating
  until stiff peaks form. Spread meringue evenly over each pudding.
  
  Bake in a conventional oven at 350 for 8 minutes or until lightly
  browned. Let stand 5 minutes. Serve warm. Yield: 6 servings (about
  195 calories per serving)
  
  Posted by Susan Goldfield Recipe by "Cooking Light" magazine
  
  July/August 1991 issue
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bavarian Cream Torte with Fresh Strawberries or Raspberri
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 9 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
      1    Graham cracker crust for 9
           -inch buttered spring form
           Pan, baked at 300-F for 10
           -minutes; cooled.
      2 tb Gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 ts Vanilla
      4    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream
           OR:
  1 1/2 c  Rich's Topping
 
  Mix together milk, sugar, egg yolks, and salt. Beat well. Cook in
  double boiler over hot water until thickened. Soften gelatin in cold
  water. Add gelatin to egg mixture. Beat egg whites until stiff and
  add sugar gradually. Fold gelatin mixture into egg white mixture.
  Fold into whipped cream. Fill graham cracker crust and refrigerate
  overnight.
  
  Serve with sliced sugared strawberries or raspberries.
  
  Source: Favorite Recipes from Boder's On-the-River, Mequon, WI and The
  Woolen Mill Inn, Cedarburg, WI.
  
  From: Sallie Krebs
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Raspberry Sauce
 Categories: Fruit, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Fresh raspberries
    1/3    To 1/2 cup sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Brandy (Optional)
 
  1.  Combine the raspberries and sugar in a saucepan, crushing the
  berries with a spoon.  Bring to a boil, stirring frequently.  Strain .
  
  2.  Combine the cornstarch with 2 tablespoons of cooled raspberry
  juice. Bring the remaining juice to a boil.  Stir in the cornstarch
  mixture; bring to a boil, stirring frequently.  Boil for 1 minute.
  
  3.  Cool the sauce.  Add the lemon juice and brandy (if used).  Serve
  the sauce over vanilla ice cream or lemon sherbet.
  
  [Raspberry Recipes from Larriland Farms; Lisbon, MD]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Tarts
 Categories: Pie/tart, Puddings
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    To 2 pints raspberries
      2    Egg yolks
      1    Whole egg
  1 1/4 oz Cornstarch
      2 oz Sugar
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
     16 oz Of milk
      2 oz Sugar
           Pre-baked tart shells
      6 oz Whipped cream
      1    Jar red currant jelly
 
  Makes 6 servings
  
  Mix milk and 2 oz. of sugar, dissolve and bring to a boil.  Set
  aside. Mix cornstarch and sugar with eggs, beat smooth.  Slowly pour
  hot milk into egg mixture stirring constantly.  Return to heat, boil,
  remove from heat.
  
  Stir in butter and vanilla.  Pour in shallow pan, sprinkle with sugar.
  Cover with wax paper, cool.  Refrigerate at this point for several
  hours. When cold blend in whipped cream.  Pour into tart shells.
  Place washed raspberries on custard.  Heat contents of red currant
  jelly to liquid form. Brush glaze on top of tarts.
  
  From: Delicious Orchards, A Collection of Recipes Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry-Peach Chicken
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Fresh or frozen unsweetened
           -raspberries
      1 sm Peach, pared and sliced
      2 tb Peach brandy or apple juice
      2 tb Honey
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 sm Skinless boneless chicken
           -breast halves (about 1
           -pound)
      1 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Place raspberries, peach slices, brandy and honey in blender or food
  processor. Cover and blend on high speed, or process, about 1 minute
  or until smooth. Heat in 1-quart saucepan until hot; reduce heat.
  Keep warm.
  
  Mix flour, salt and pepper. Coat chicken breast halves with flour
  mixture. Heat oil in 10-inch skillet. Cook chicken in oil over medium
  heat 12 to 14 minutes, turning once, until juices run clear.
  
  Spoon some sauce on serving plate. Place chicken on sauce and drizzle
  with additional sauce. Garnish with remaining raspberries if desired.
  
  Source: Betty Crocker's Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Crush
 Categories: Beverages, Masterchefs, Down under, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 kg Raspberries (fresh or
           -frozen)
           Juice of one lemon
           Sugar to taste

MMMMM--------------------------TO SERVE-------------------------------
           Fresh mint leaves
           Crushed ice and ice cubes
           Mineral water or sparkling
           -white wine (optional)
 
  Process  the   raspberries   in   a   food processor and  puree
  well. Stir in  the lemon  juice  and   sugar.   This   light, fresh
  tasting drink is served  in  a  long glass jug  with  mint  leaves,
  ice  cubes and crushed ice.   It   may   also   be served    with
    mineral water or sparkling wine.
  
  Bon Appetit - Exec.Chef Magnus Johansson Source: Vogue May'94
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Raspberry Muffins (Rich Harper)
 Categories: Fruit, Muffins, Breakfast
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Half and half
    1/2 c  Oil
      1 ts Lemon extract
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Raspberries*
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees.  Line 12 muffin cups with paper baking
  cups.
  
  Lightly spoon flour into measuring cup; level off.  COmbine flour,
  sugar, baking powder, and salt.  Mix well.
  
  Combine half and half, oil, lemon extract, and eggs; blend well. Add
  to dry ingredients, stirring just until ingredients are moistened.
  Carefully fold in raspberries.  Fill muffin cups 3/4 full. Bake 19-23
  mins, until golden brown.  Cool 5 minutes before removing from pans.
  
  *Frozen raspberries can be used unthawed and without syrup
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Soda-Cracker Pie
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4    Egg whites
    1/4 ts Cream of tartar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sugar
     16    Saltine crackers, crushed
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      8 oz Carton whipping cream
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    To 3 cups fresh or frozen
           -raspberries, blueberries,
           -sliced
 
  Reba DeBlieck of Chaska, Minnesota, proved her raspberry dessert
  prowess with this meringue-crust pie that won first place in the
  pie/cake category. It's based on a strawberry pie from Reba's late
  mother-in-law, Grace DeBlieck.
  
  strawberries or blackberries
  
  1. In a large mixing bowl, beat egg whites and cream of tartar till
  foamy. Beat in 1 teaspoon vanilla. Gradually beat in 1 cup sugar till
  stiff peaks form. Fold in crackers and pecans.
  
  2. Grease and flour a 9-inch pie plate. Transfer egg mixture to plate,
  spreading over bottom and sides. Bake in a 325-F oven 35 to 40
  minutes till golden. Cool.
  
  3. For filling, in a mixing bowl, beat cream, 1/3 cup sugar and 1
  teaspoon vanilla till soft peaks form. Fold in berries. Spoon into
  crust. Store in the refrigerator. Source: MIDWEST LIVING AUGUST 1994
  p.102 From: Sallie Krebs
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon And Corn Pie
 Categories: Vegetables, Fish, Casseroles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
  2 1/2 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Grated onion
  1 1/2 c  Cooked or canned whole
           -kernel corn
           Salt and pepper
      1 lb Can salmon, flaked (remove
           -bones)
           Fluffy mashed potatoes
 
  Melt butter in a saucepan ;add flour and mix well.  Add the milk
  gradually and cook, stirring constantly until thickened.  Add the
  onion, drained corn and season with salt and pepper to taste.  Add
  the flaked salmon, reheat and pour into a buttered baking dish. Cover
  with fluffy mashed potatoes. Dot with butter and brown under broiler.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingered Pickled Eggs
 Categories: Pickles, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     12    Eggs, hard cooked & shelled
  3 3/4 c  White wine vinegar
      2    Green chiles, chopped
      1    Ginger root, fresh, 1"
      2 ts Peppercorns
      1 ts Allspice berries
    1/2 ts Mustard seeds
 
  Place eggs in preserve jars and set aside. In a large saucepan,
  combine the vinegar and mustard seed; bring the vinegar to a boil for
  10 minutes. Remove from the heat and strain the vinegar over the eggs
  to completely cover them. Seal the jars and store refrigerated for at
  least 2 weeks before serving.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   06-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caribou with Green Peppercorn Sauce
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Caribou fillet steaks
      1 tb Green peppercorns
      2 oz Canadian Rye whiskey
      2 tb Butter
           Salt
           Fresh coarsely ground
           -black pepper
      1    Green onion; chopped
      1 cl Garlic; minced
    1/4 c  Red wine
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley or
           -other fresh herb
 
  Soak the peppercorns in the Rye overnight.
  
  Heat butter in a saute pan. Salt and pepper the venison on both sides
  and saute quickly, about 3 minutes per side (depending on thickness)
  for medium rare. Remove from pan and keep warm.
  
  Add onions and garlic to pan juices; cook 1 min. Add green
  peppercorns and rye; simmer 1 min. Add wine and cook down to it forms
  a glaze. Add heavy cream and continue cooking until sauce thickens.
  
  Add the herbs. Serve sauce over venison.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   06-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese And Vanilla Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Pure butter or 1 lb = 2 c
           (use only pure butter)
      2    (8 oz.) pkgs. cream cheese
      4 lg Eggs
      3    Heaping tbsp. vanilla pure
           Extract
      3 c  Powdered sugar, sifted
  3 1/2 c  Cake flour, sifted
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees before baking cake.  Cream butter with
  cream cheese.  Add eggs, beating after each addition.  Stir in
  vanilla extract. Next gradually add sifted flour until texture is
  smooth. Spoon into tube baking cake pan, or bake in a cake mold. Bake
  at 325 degrees for 1 1/2 hours.  Cool on rack before serving. Yield:
  one pound cake approximately 12 to 15 servings per cake. Serve with
  your favorite topping or ala mode with your favorite ice cream.
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE CREAM CHEESE POUND CAKE
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter (1 stick; softened)
      8 oz Cream cheese (softened)
      3 c  Cake flour
      1 tb Orange extract (or almond)
      1 c  Margarine (2 stcks,softened)
      3 c  Sugar
      6    Eggs
 
  Cream butter, margarine, cream cheese, and sugar until smooth and
  creamy. Add other ingredients and beat well.  Bake in 10 inch Bundt
  cake pan at 325 degrees for 1 hour and 20 minutes.
  
  SOURCE: Sunburst Samplings - compiled by The Sunburst Banks of
  Mississippi Contributed by Connie Lawrence Typed for you by Nancy
  Coleman Submitted By DAWN LEMIRE   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Christmas Layer Salad
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 oz Gelatin, lime-flavored
      1 c  Water; boiling
    1/2 c  Water; cold
  8 1/4 oz Pineapple, crushed; drained
      6 oz Cream cheese; softened
      3 oz Gelatin, lemon-flavored
      1 c  Water; boiling
    1/2 c  Water; cold
      3 oz Gelatin, strawberry-flavored
      1 c  Water; boiling
     17 oz Apricots; drained and pureed
 
  Dissolve lime gelatin in 1 cup boiling water; stir in 1/2 cup cold
  water and pineapple.  POur into an 11-3/4 x 7-1/2 x 1-3/4 pan.
   Chill until firm.
  
  Combine cream cheese and lemon gelatin; mix thoroughly.  Add 1 cup
  boiling water and 1 cup cold water.  Cool; pour over first layer.
  Chill until firm.
  
  Disolve strawberry gelatin in 1 cup boiling water; stir in apricots.
  Cool; pour over lemon layer.  Chill until firm.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, December 1976. Typos by Nancy
  Coleman Submitted By NANCY COLEMAN   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ambrosia Salad
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4    Bananas; sliced
  1 1/2 c  Oranges; diced
      1 c  Grapes, seedless
      1 c  Dates; chopped
      4 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Coconut, flaked

MMMMM------------------RED FRUIT SALAD DRESSING-----------------------
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Cranberry sauce, jellied
    1/2 c  Cream, whipping; whipped
 
  Combine first 4 ingredients, and sprinkle with lemon juice; chill.
  Before serving, toss lightly.  Garnish with coconut, and serve with
  Red Fruit Salad Dressing.
  
  Red Fruit Salad Dressing: Combine all ingredients, using a folding
  motion. Yield: 2 cups.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, December 1976. Typos by Nancy
  Coleman. Submitted By NANCY COLEMAN   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rich Raisin Cake^
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Raisins
           Water
      1 c  Sugar
           Vinegar
           Cornstarch
    3/4 c  Lard
  1 3/4 c  Oatmeal
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
        pn Salt
      1 c  Brown sugar
 
  Cook raisins till soft in water. Add 1 cup sugar or enough to
  sweeten. Add a little vinegar to taste and thicken with cornstarch
  mixed with a little water to make a paste. Mix shortening, baking
  soda, salt, brown sugar and flour like you do for pie crust. Grease
  pan and put crumbs in bottom. Pour on raisin mixture, put rest of
  crumbs on top. Bake in a quick oven. Serve with ice cream or whipped
  cream.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cake - Marion Partridge^
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
 
  Beat butter and sugar together. Add eggs and beat well. Put vanilla
  into milk and add to mixture. Gradually beat in flour and baking
  powder, mix till smooth. pour into greased and floured pan and bake
  in a moderate oven.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Good Cake Without Frosting^
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Shortening or lard
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      2 c  Brown sugar

MMMMM------------------------EGG MIXTURE-----------------------------
      1 c  Sour milk
      1 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs, beaten
 
  Mix together flour, cloves, salt, shortening, cinnamon, nutmeg and
  brown sugar. Take out 2/3 cup of mixture for topping. To rest of
  mixture, add milk, baking soda and eggs. Beat well. Pour batter into
  greased pan; put egg mixture on top of cake and bake in a slow oven
  till done.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aunt Annie's Sponge Cake^
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      4 tb Cold water
      1 c  Flour
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Separate eggs. beat egg yolks with sugar. Add water and mix well.
  Stir in flour, cornstarch, baking powder and vanilla and stir until
  well blended. Beat egg whites until stiff. gently fold in to batter.
  Bake in a moderate oven. Very good!
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mable's Cake^
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Lard
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Nutmeg
 
  In a medium sized saucepan, mix together sugar, raisins, water and
  lard. Bring to a boil and stir in baking soda. Cool and add flour,
  salt and spices. Mix well. Bake in moderate oven.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aunt Dodie's Butter Cream Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Lemon extract
  2 1/4 c  Flour, sifted
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
      3    Egg whites, well beaten
 
  Cream together butter and sugar. Add milk a little at a time. Add
  lemon. Gradually beat in flour and baking soda. Carefully fold in
  beaten egg whites. Turn into greased and floured pan and bake in a
  moderate oven until done.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mrs. Knowle's Radio Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      3    Eggs, beaten good
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Allspice
      1 ts Nutmeg
      1 c  Sour milk
 
  Beat together sugar and butter till creamy. Beat in eggs. Sift flour,
  then measure. Sift all dry ingredients together. Pour about 1/3 of
  the milk into the sugar mixture and mix well. Then put about 1/3 of
  the dry mixture in and beat well again. Continue alternating liquid
  and dry. Add a cupful of dates or nuts if desired. bake in a moderate
  oven till it tests done.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maureen's Chocolate Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Sour milk
      2 ts Baking soda
      2 ts Vanilla
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cocoa
      1 c  Boiling water
 
  Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs, cream again. Add remaining
  ingredients, one at a time, in order given. Pour into a greased and
  floured large pan or layer pans. Bake in a moderate oven for 40-45
  minutes.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Joe's Soft Ginger Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shortening
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Molasses
  1 1/2 ts Baking soda in
      1 c  Boiling water
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
      2    Eggs, beaten
 
  Mix together shortening, sugar, salt and molasses. Add the
  soda-in-water while hot. Mix and add the flour. Mix in spices.
  Finally mix in beaten eggs. Pour into greased pan and bake in a
  moderate (350 degree) oven for 30 minutes.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aunt Dodie's Eggless Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Lard
      1 c  Sweet milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Slat
      1 ts (scant) cream of tartar
      1 ts (scant) baking soda
      2 c  Flour
 
  Cream sugar and lard. Add milk and vanilla. Add cloves, cinnamon and
  salt. Mix together the cream of tartar, baking soda and flour. Beat
  this into the batter, a little at a time. Pour into a greased tin,
  bake in a moderate oven until done. this is good with a little cream
  poured over each serving.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quick Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Soft butter
  1 1/3 c  Brown sugar
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Milk
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 lb Dates
 
  Beat well butter and sugar. Add eggs and milk. Add remaining
  ingredients and beat everything together. Beat for 3 minutes. Bake
  45-50 minutes in a moderate oven. From Mrs. Louie Johnson
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Novel Layer Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------FIRST LAYER-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Shortening
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    3/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Pastry flour

MMMMM------------------------SECOND LAYER-----------------------------
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1    Egg white
    1/2 ts Vanilla
  3 3/8 c  Chopped nuts
      1 tb Cocoa
 
  First Layer Cream shortening and sugar. Add eggs and vanilla. Last,
  sift flour and salt and mix together. Spread even in greased pan.
  
  Second Layer Beat egg white well and fold in sugar and cocoa. Add
  vanilla and stir gently. Spread over first layer in pan. Sprinkle
  with walnuts. Bake in a 350 degree oven for about 30 minutes. From
  Mrs. Neiman.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gold Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 2/3 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
     10    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Mix together flour, baking powder and salt; sift three times. Beat
  the egg yolks a little. Add the boiling water a little at a time. Add
  the sugar slowly. Beat for 10 minutes. By hand, carefully fold in
  sifted flour mixture. Bake at 350 degrees for an hour.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mrs Babich's Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Cake flour
    1/2 c  Butter or crisco
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt (or less)
    1/2 c  Milk
      3 ts Baking powder
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  More milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Sift flour, then measure. cream butter and add flour, sugar, salt and
  milk. Beat this two minutes. Gradually add remaining ingredients and
  beat two minutes longer. Pour into a greased pan. Put in a moderate
  oven. Bakes in 30-35 minutes. Good!
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clara's Chocolate Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Shortening or lard
      3    Eggs
      2    Squares chocolate
      2 tb Boiling water
    3/4 c  Sour milk
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt chocolate in boiling water. Cool. dissolve baking soda in milk.
  Meantime, beat together sugar and shortening. Add chocolate. Add eggs
  one at a time and beat well. Stir in milk. Add flour, salt and
  vanilla. Pour into greased and floured pans and bake in a moderate
  oven for about 40-45 minutes.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Agnes Johnson's Sugarless Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Light corn syrup
      2    Eggs, separated
    1/2 c  Milk
      2    1 4 c cake flour
  2 1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Cream butter. Add syrup gradually, then add egg yolks. Sift flour and
  baking powder and add alternately with milk. Beat egg whites stiff
  but not dry. Pour into pan and bake 45 minutes at 350 degrees. Serve
  with whipping cream. Very Good.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maple Sugar Filling & Frosting^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Maple sugar
           Water
    1/2 c  Cream
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Break maple sugar into small pieces; cover with enough water to
  thoroughly dissolve and boil until it waxes hard. Take off heat and
  beat till nearly cold. Add cream and butter. Put on fire again and
  cook till the right consistency. Beat till cool and add vanilla.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frosting^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Butter
      1    Egg yolk
      1 tb Cocoa
      1 tb Warm, black coffee
      2 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Mix butter and egg yolk well. Beat in coffee and cocoa. gradually add
  sugar. spread on cooled cake. Easy and tasty.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Chocolate Frosting^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 oz Chocolate
    1/2 c  Milk
      2    Egg whites
           Vanilla
           Powdered sugar
 
  In double boiler, boil chocolate and cream; cool, add vanilla. Beat
  egg whites to a stiff froth; add the sugar until stiff enough to cut.
  Combine the two mixtures, beat and spread.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mocha Frosting^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Cocoa
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Cold, strong coffee
 
  Cream butter. Add sugar and cocoa gradually. Add vanilla, then coffee,
  gradually until mixture is smooth, creamy and thick enough to spread.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Icing for White Cake^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
      2    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Pineapple, chopped
 
  Boil sugar and water until it threads well; pour over egg whites well
  beaten, beating all the time. when partly cool, add pineapple.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Praline Frosting^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
      1 ts Flour
    1/3 c  Nuts, chopped
      3 tb Butter, melted
      1 tb Water
 
  Mix together well and spread over warm cake. Place in a moderate oven
  (350 degrees) about 5 minutes. Will frost a small cake. for a large
  cake, double the recipe.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Icing^
 Categories: Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Cream
    1/2 c  Maple syrup
           Butter the size of a walnut
 
  Mix all together in a saucepan. Let boil until it forms a soft ball
  in ice cold water. Beat till creamy. Spread on cake.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Quiche
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1    9 inch unbaked pie shell
    1/2 c  Diced chicken
      3 tb Sliced almonds
  1 1/2 c  Shredded Swiss cheese
      2    Eggs, beaten
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Mace
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Put chicken, almonds, Swiss cheese in pie shell in that order.
  Combine rest of the ingredients except Parmesan cheese.  Pour over
  chicken, etc. Sprinkle Parmesan cheese on top.  Bake in a 375 degree
  oven for 30 minutes. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Ring
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 c  Mashed cooked carrots
      1 c  Bread crumbs
      3    Egg yolks, beaten
      2 tb Chopped onion
      2 tb Celery, chopped
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Paprika
      1 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter, melted
      3    Beaten egg whites
 
  Mix all ingredients, then add beaten egg whites.  Put in a greased
  ring mold and place in a pan of hot water and bake for 1 hour at 350
  degrees. Peas may be served in the center of the ring. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Egg Quiche
 Categories: Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
     16 sl Bread
      1 lb Ham
      8    Thick slices of Old English
           Cheese
 
  Arrange 8 slices of bread in a buttered pan then add ham, then
  cheese, then 8 slices of bread.  Beat 7 eggs along with 1 1/2
  teaspoons of dry mustard, 1 teaspoon salt, scant 3 cups of milk and
  pour over all. Refrigerate overnight.
  
  Topping: 3 cups Corn flakes, crushed 1 stick of margarine
  
  Drizzle over all and bake at 300 degrees for 1 hour. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pifti de Pasare (Aspic)
 Categories: Romanian, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Soup chicken,turkey, or duck
      1 x  Onion
      1 x  Carrot
      1 x  Parsley root
      1 x  Lemon
      1 x  Salt (to taste)
      2 x  Bay leaves
      3 x  Peppercorns
      2    Garlic cloves (optional)
 
  Place poultry in pot with just enough water to cover. Slowly bring to
  a boil, skimming off surface. When water comes to a full boil skim
  again and add the salt and the vegetables, bay leaves and
  peppercorns. Place lid on pot, leaving a small opening for steam to
  escape. Simmer gently until meat leaves the bones. Remove meat,
  strain liquid, add lemon juice. Arrange meat in deep platters, cover
  with juice and garnish with lemon slices if desired. Refrigerate
  until well set. To serve cut in squares or can be poured into small
  dishes and served directly. If turkey is used it can be a portion of
  bird only, weighing 3 to 4 pounds. Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On
   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pate de Picate (Chicken Liver Spread)
 Categories: Romanian, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken livers
      1 tb Chicken fat or oil
      1 x  Onion, medium
      3 x  Eggs, hard boiled
      1 x  Mayonnaise
      1 x  Salt, garlic salt or
           -garlic juice
 
  
    Fry livers until well done. Put livers, eggs and onion through meat
  grinder. Add fat or oil, salt, garlic; mix well. Add mayo to desired
  consistency.
  Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinata de Ciuperci (Marinated Mushrooms)
 Categories: Romanian, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Button mushrooms
      1 c  Oil
      1 x  Salt, to taste
      2 c  Vinegar(approx)
      2 x  Bay leaves
      1 x  Peppercorns
 
  Wash mushrooms well and cut off tips of stems. Place on a cloth to
  dry. Heat oil to boiling, add mushrooms and saute for about 15 min or
  until tender. Place mushrooms in half quart or quart jars. Add salt,
  about 1 ts to a quart jar. Add bay leaves and peppercorns to vinegar
  and bring to a boil. Simmer for about ten more minutes. Pour hot
  vinegar over mushrooms and seal jars.
  Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oua Umplute (Stuffed Eggs)
 Categories: Romanian, Appetizers
      Yield: 24 servings
 
     12 x  Eggs, hard boiled
    1/2 c  Chicken breast, ground fine
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Sour cream
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      1 pn Salt
      1 x  Black pepper, to taste
      1 x  Mayonnaise
 
  Remove shells from eggs. Slice in half and remove yolks into a bowl.
  
  Smooth the yolks with a fork so they will not be too lumpy. Grind
  chicken very finely in processor or grinder. Add to yolks, chicken,
  butter, sour cream, mustard, salt & pepper. Fill eggs and serve with
  mayo. Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vinete (Eggplant)
 Categories: Romanian, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Eggplant
      1 x  Onion, medium, grated
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 x  Salt (to taste)
 
  Broil eggplant on all sides until well cooked. Scrape off skin and
  mash well with a wooden spoon. Add salt to taste. Mix grated onion
  with 1 teaspoon of the oil and add to eggplant. Add remaining oil to
  eggplant slowly, stirring constantly. Add lemon juice and serve as an
  appetizer on crackers or bread.
  Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Icre de Crap (Paste of Carp Roe)
 Categories: Romanian, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Prepared roe
      1 pt Oil
      1 x  Pepper, to taste
      1 x  Lemon juice, to taste
      1 x  Large onion, grated
      2 x  Slices white bread,soaked
      1 x  Salt
 
    Clean fresh Carp roe(eggs) of all membrane and salt well. Place in
  enamel or porcelain bowl and cover, keep in basement or cool place
  for 2 to 3 days, or until roe acquires an orange color. Place in a
  mixer and beat well, adding oil a little at a time, until it is all
  absorbed. Soak bread in milk. Add soaked bread, onion, lemon juice,
  pepper and continue beating until light and fluffy. Keep
  refrigerated. Serve on crackers or thin rye bread. This is like a
  poor-man's caviar, though I prefer salmon eggs to carp. And yes, crap
  is the romanian word for carp! Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On
   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Casserole
 Categories: Fish, Casseroles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Yields 4 Servings
     15 oz Canned Salmon
      3 ea Green Onions, Sliced
           Fine
      2 ea Stalks Celery, Sliced Fine
      1 tb Butter
      1 c  Cooked White Rice
      8 oz Canned Green Peas
      1 c  Cheddar, Shredded
           Preheat the oven to 350
           -degrees.
           Drain the salmon, reserve
           -the liquid.
           Flake the salmon, removing
           -all the bones.
           Melt the butter in a
           -skillet.
           Saute the onion and celery
           -until just soft.
      2 ea Eggs
    1/2 c  Half & Half
      1 ds Salt
      1 ds Black Pepper
      1 ds Tabasco Sauce
      2 tb Lemon Juice
           Celery, Sliced
 
  Combine the salmon, cooked rice, sauteed onion, sauteed celery, peas,
  salmon liquid and cheddar in a bowl. Beat the eggs and half & half
  together. Stir in the seasonings. Mix in the lemon juice. Add to the
  salmon mixture. Turn the mixture into a lightly greased baking dish.
  Bake until set and lightly browned on top. Let stand a few minutes
  before serving. Garnish with sliced fresh celery.
  
  Submitted By RON ALLARD   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ku-I-Ous Ow-E (Phonetic)
 Categories: Main dish, African, Middle east
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Beef, cubed
      4    Potatoes, sliced
      2 md Onions, sliced
      2 sl Tomatoes
           -Butter
      1 sm Can tomato sauce
           -Salt
           -Lots and Lots of pepper
           -Water
 
  Thirty years ago two Egyptian fellows worked in the Paper Mill where
  I was the Chemist.  We had them to our house many times for meals.
  One time they said they would cook.  This is what they made.  The
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Sopa De Entulho
 Categories: Vegetables, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Kidney beans (dry)
      2 md Onion
    1/8 ts Cloves, whole
      2 sm Turnips
      3 md Carrot
      3 md Potato raw w/o skin
      1 sm Pumpkin
      4 ts Extra Virgin olive oil
    1/2 ea Head Cabbage
      6 ts Vinegar
      4 pt Water
 
  Soak beans for a few hours in water; fill a large pan with 4 pints
  water, press cloves into onions add to beans, add olive oil. Turn on
  medium heat and cook until beans are tender. Cut turnip into small
  pieces and add. Cut carrots into thin slices and the pumpkin into
  large cubes. Add them to pot. Discard the onion with the cloves still
  in it. When carrots are almost cooked add the peeled potatoes cut
  into small cubes. The washed leaves of the turnip are broken into
  medium size pieces by hand and the leaves of the cabbage
  hand-shredded into large pieces. Continue cooking until leaves are
  soft. Place a teaspoon of vinegar in bottom of each bowl and fill
  with hot soup.  You can add a dash of Tabasco for more spice. ---end
  Submitted By STUART THOMPSON   On   07-08-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Mushroom & Spinach Lasagna
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Vegetables, Italian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 md Pepper red
    1/2 md Onion
      2 md Garlic cloves
      4 md Tomato raw
    1/8 ts Thyme, ground
    1/2 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
    1/8 ts Hot Pepper Sauce
      1 md Onion
      1 ts Balsamic vinegar
      3 md Tomato raw
      4 md Garlic clove
      6 oz Mushrooms
      1 c  Ricotta Chs skim milk
      2 oz Swiss Cheese low fat
    1/4 c  Basil, fresh
      1 lb Spinach fresh
      1 tb Parsley fresh
      6 oz Lasagna noodles (spinach)
      4 oz Parmesan grated
 
  Sauce Use the first 8 ingredients to make the sauce. Roast the red
  peppers, and all the onions and garlic. (to roast onion and garlic in
  a microwave) place an un pealed onion in microwave for 5 minutes on
  high. In the last 2 minutes add garlic cloves. Combine peppers,
  onion, garlic, tomato (peeled, seeded & diced), thyme and stock in a
  sauce pan; simmer for 15 minutes. Transfer to food processor or
  blender, add pepper sauce and balsamic vinegar and then puree. Set
  aside. Lasagna
  
  Cook lasagna noodles per instructions, drain and rinse with cold
  water. Wash spinach leaves and steam Chop coarsely.In a non-stick
  skillet combine onions, tomatoes, garlic and mushrooms; simmer until
  liquid evaporates, about 15 minutes. Let cool then add ricotta
  cheese, swiss cheese, basil, parsely, salt and pepper. Mix well. In
  an oiled 9X13 baking dish, put down a layer of noodles. Top with a
  layer of spinach, then onion-and-tomato mixture, then parmesan.
  Repeat layers until all ingredients are gone. Bake in a 350 oven for
  40 minutes. Serve with tomato-red bell pepper sauce on top. ---end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Broccoli Linquine
 Categories: Vegetables, Pasta, Main dish, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Linguine, uncooked
      2 c  Broccoli floweretts
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 lg Egg yolk
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Thyme, ground
      1 ts Oregano
    1/2 c  Romano, grated
      2 tb Butter
 
  Steam the broccoli florettes. Cook linguine per package
  
  directions. (if you use fresh use 9 oz). While they are cooking,
  combine the next five ingredients. Place drained linguine and
  broccoli in a large bowl and toss with cheese and butter. Combine
  with sour cream mixture and serve. ---end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Piftie (Aspic of pigs feet)
 Categories: Romanian, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 x  Pigs feet
      1 tb Salt
      1 x  Garlic clove
      1 x  Onion, partially peeled
      1 x  Carrot
      1 ts Black pepper, whole
 
  Cut pigs feet in half, singe and scrape until clean. Place in pot and
  cover with cold water, add salt and bring to a boil. Skim the foam
  and reduce heat, simmer gently for 1 hour. Add onion, carrot, and
  whole black pepper. Cover and boil gently until the meat is so well
  cooked that it comes off easily from the bones. When cooked remove
  all meat and bones and vegetables from the broth. Strain the broth
  through a cheesecloth several times. Remove meat from bones and place
  in loaf pan or a bowl that is not too deep. Then put the broth on to
  heat again and when it starts to boil add garlic that has been mashed
  with salt, allow to cook together for about 5 min. and strain again
  thru cheese cloth. Pour the broth over meat and chill until firm.
  Scrape any remaining fat off, sprinkle with paprika. Submitted By
  MARK MIKLAS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Cream Sorbet
 Categories: Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
      8 oz Fresh or frozen raspberries
      2 md Egg whites
      8 ea Raspberries for garnish.
 
  Heat sugar and 3/4 c water over medium heat until mixture sticks to
  the back of a mixing spoon, about 5 minutes.  Cool slightly. Puree
  raspberries with cooled sugar mixture. Add egg whites to above
  mixture, blend and freeze in ice-cream maker or pour into loaf pan
  and freeze until nearly solid.  Chop into small pieces, puree, then
  refreeze until ready to serve. Garnish each serving with a raspbery.
  Serves 8. Per serving: 90 calories, .1 g fat, 0 cholesterol, 13 mg
  sodium.
  
  Submitted By MARGE CLARK   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Adobo   (Vpcw33a)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Chicken -- cleaned and cut
           Up
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
    1/3 ts Peppercorns
    1/3 c  Vinegar -- (Nipa sap)*
 
  1-2  ea Bay leaves * purchased in oriental stores Here's a "standard"
  recipe for chicken (or pork/beef) adobo which is prepared similarly by
  millions of Filipinos: (Optional) Dashof MSG.  Place all ingredients
  in a medium sauce pan and bring to boil over Enjoy! Felomina VPCW33A
  FROM: MICHAEL KOFFLER (VPCW33A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple And Black Bean Picadillo
 Categories: Vegetables, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           JUDI M. PHELPS (BNVX05A)
      2    Pieces (4x1-inc) orange
           Zest
      4 tb Peanut or safflower oil
           Julienned into slivers
      4 md Onions -- coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Raisins or currants
      2 tb Garlic -- chopped
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
           Salt to taste -- optional
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Ground pepper
    1/2 ts Allspice
      2 lb Very lean beef -- chopped
           Or
    1/2 ts Nutmeg -- preferably
           Freshly
           Ground
           Grated
      1 cn Ital. plum tomatoes (35 oz)
      2 lg Tart apples; peeled, cored
           Drained and chopped
           And cubed
      3    Canned jalapeno peppers
      1 cn Black beans (16 oz) --
           Drained
           Seeded & sliced into rings
           And rinsed
      1 cn Green chilies (4 oz) --
           Chopped
    1/4 c  Capers -- drained
 
  1.  In a large saute pan over moderately high heat, heat the oil until
  rippling; add the onions, garlic, salt (optional), and pepper and
  saute stirring frequently until onions arejust golden. 2. Add the
  meat and cook, stirring until it loses its red color Ten minutes
  before serving, mix in the apples, beans, and capers, stir and simmer
  over low heat so that apples do not become mushy. 5. Transfer to deep
  serving bowl or covered dish and serve with rice. Makes 6-8 servings.
  SOURCE: The Brilliant Bean Cookbook.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arni Souvlaki
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           NANCY BERRY
      1    Leg lamb;about 4 lb. --
           Boned
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
           Juice of 1 lemon
      2 ts Dried oregano
     20 ml Garlic -- crushed or
           Chopped
      3    Bay leaves -- broken in
           Pieces
           Salt and freshly ground
           Black pepper to taste
           (CWBJ78A)
 
  Cut lamb into 1 1/2 inch cubes and place in a non-reactive (glass or
  earthenware) dish. Add remaining ingredients to lamb, mix well to coat
  meat, and cover.  You   can also place all ingredients in a heavy
  plastic bag and seal. Leave in refrigerator to ma Lift lamb out of
  marinade and thread onto metal skewers. Pieces of bay leaf may be
  placed between lamb cubes. Since most vegetables have different
  cooking times, I would suggestthat you skewer peppers, onions, etc.
  separately and serve them together with the lamb. If you wish these
  may be marinated also (in a separate bag.)  Cook under a hot broiler
  or over glowing charcoal, turning and basting frequently with
  marinade. I like this best medium rare. Keep checking the meat -- the
  cooking time will vary because charc
  
  Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; October, 1993 Posted in 1991
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arroz Con Pollo Chapina - Gwhp32a
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken-cut up for
           Frying-no
           Or fat
      1 tb Corn oil
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Onion -- chopped
      1 c  Garlic -- minced
    1/2 c  Tomato; ripe -- peeled and
           Ch
  1 1/2 c  Rice -- uncooked
      1 c  Carrots -- sliced
    1/3 c  Green olives -- stuffed
      1 tb Capers
  2 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      5    Saffron threads --
           Dissolved
      1 c  Green peas -- fresh or
           Frozen
    1/2 c  Pimiento -- cut in strips
      1    Egg; hard cooked -- sliced
      2 tb Parmesean cheese -- grated
 
  In a 4 qt. serving skillet or ovenproof casserole, brown the chicken
  in the oil over moderate heat for 20 minutes.  Sprinkle with 1/2 tsp
  of the salt and the pepper.  Remove chicken and reserve. In the same
  pot, add accumulated chicken fat, fry the onion, Cover the skillet
  with aluminum foil and punch about 8 holes in the top to allow the
  steam to escape. Bake in a 300 degree oven for 30 minutes. Fluff up
  the mixture a couple of times during the baking time. Serve warm.
  Decorate the surface with the pimiento strips and egg slices and
  sprinkle with the cheese. The rice should be dry, loose and not
  sticky.  Good served with plaintain, Salsa Picante and Encurtidos.
  Note: this dish is an offshoot to the Spanish Paella, and was
  originally developed in Spain, even though the recipe comes from
  Guatemala City, and they do not reference the origin a From: False
  Tongues and Sunday Bread, a book of authentic Guatemalan and Mayan
  recipes by Copeland Marks.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Fish (Psito Psari)
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           MARY SUE DAY
      1    Whole grouper -- about 3 lbs
    3/4 c  Olive oil
           Juice of 2 lemons
      1    Lemon -- sliced
      3 lg Onions -- finely chopped
     20 ml Garlic -- finely chopped
    1/2 c  -water
           Salt & pepper to taste

MMMMM--------------------------STUFFING-------------------------------
    1/2 ts Parsley -- chopped
    1/2 ts Oregano.
           (RBCK34E)
 
  Clean fish & slit down center. Sprinkle inside w/lemon juice. Salt &
  pepper and let stand 20 min. Drain & place in baking dish & stuff
  w/parsley & oregano. Saute onions & garlic lightly 3 min. in olive
  oil. Pour over fish. Arrange sliced lemon on top of f
  
  Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; October, 1993 Posted April, 1993
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Spareribs -Kvnh17b
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Spareribs -- have ribs cut
           Separate into individual
           In half lengthwise and
           Serving sizes

MMMMM------------------------HOISIN SAUCE-----------------------------
      1 cn Hoisin sauce
      4 tb Sugar
      6 tb -Warm water
      4 tb Sesame oil
 
  Combine warm water and sugar until dissolved.  Mix in Hoisin sauce and
  sesame oil.  Marinate ribs at least 2 hours, turning frequently.
  
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  Place ribs in a single layer on rack in
  a foil-lined roasting pan. Bake at 400 degrees for 10 minutes. Turn
  ribs and baste with Hoisin sauce.  Lowerheat to 375 degrees and
  continue baking, turning and basting occasionally, fo
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Keleguan     Twtr55a
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Flank steak
      1 ts Salt
      4    Lemon
      1 sm Onion -- chopped
      6    Jalapeno peppers (or the
           Hot
 
  Slice meat into thin bite-sized strips,  squeezing as much of the
  juice out that you can. Place in a bowl and mix in the salt and the
  juice of the lemon. Let sit until the meat doesn't look as raw (about
  1 hour). Add the onion and chopped red pepper. If it tastes too
  lemony for you, add a splash of vinegar.    STEPHANIE WARTHEN
   (TWTR55A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Misoyaki
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           PAM COOMBES
    1/2 ts MSG -- (optional)
  2 1/2 tb Sesame seeds
    1/4 c  Sake
    1/3 c  Light miso
      1 lb Beef; rib eye roast
           (fermented soybean paste)
           Very thinly sliced
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Peanut oil
      2 tb Sugar
           (RNCM95A)
 
  Toast the sesame seeds in a frying pan. Cook only until a few pop and
  the rest turn golden brown. Grind with mortar and pestle or run
  through a food blender. Do not grind too fine. Add the miso to the
  sesame seeds and mix well. Ad the soy sauce; sugar, MS
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer Batter Oysters Jjgf65a
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Eggs -- separated
  1 1/3 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Oil
    3/4 c  Beer
      1    Oil for frying
     16    Frying oysters
 
  Georges Perrier "Le Be Please allow me the expainlnation that goes
  with this recipe;and Cauliflower Au Gratin,Baked Apples With
  Cherries,Game Hens Nicoise.Le Bec-Fin is Philidelphia's Premier
  French Restaurant.Georges Perrier is Chef owner..Elaine Tait is Add
  egg yolks to flour,salt and pepper and oil.Blend throughly.Stir in
  beer.Whisk until smooth.Cover and refrigerate for at least three
  hours,but no longer than 24 hours.Just before oysters are to be
  fried,beat egg whites to soft peaks and fold into the b
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Benihana Hibachi Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24 oz Chicken breasts -- skinned
           -boned (6 oz each)
      4 ts Lemon juice
      4 ds Salt -- optional
      4 ts Soybean oil
      4 ds Pepper -- optional
      2 ts Sesame seeds
 
  Heat nonstick skillet (if using electric skillet, set at 350
  degrees). Add oil to heated skillet. Cut chicken breast into
  bite-size pieces and sprinkle with salt and pepper if desired. Cook
  5-8 minutes or until chicken is white in appearance and firm to t
  Servings suggestions: Dip chicken in Benihana Magic Mustard Sauce.
  Source: Benihana Restaurants Have a good evening! TTYL Karen in S.CA
  FOOD AND WINE CLUB TOPIC: BUSY COOK TIME: 03/11 9:02 PM  TO:
      LISA HLAVATY (FDGN81A) FROM: KAREN THACKERAY (NSTM54B) SUBJECT:
  CHICKEN R'S ANYONE?
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Biscotti
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Ethnic
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 ts Almond or anise extract
      1 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
      3 lg Eggs
    2/3 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Lemon peel
 
  Preheat oven to 375 F. Grease a large baking sheet and set aside.
  Thoroughly stir together flour, baking powder,salt and lemon peel. In
  large bowl, combine butter and sugar and beat until well blended. Add
  eggs and extract and beat until light and fluffy. Beat in half the
  dry ingredients. Stir in remaining dry ingreients with wooden spoon.
  Divide dough in half. Shape each half into a smooth, evenly shaped
  log, about 12 inches long.(place in wax paper and roll back and forth
  to make it easy). Unroll onto baking sheet, spacing them as far apart
  as possible. Press down logs to flatten slightly Posted on *Prodigy's
  Food and Wine Bulletin Board by Marie Arico (CWJS00A) and formatted
  by GNFK05B.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackened Fish     (Hddw83b)
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 lb Butter -- unsalted melted
      1 ts Garlic powder
      6    Fish -- fillets
    1/2 ts Oregano
           Seasoning  mix
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 tb Paprika
    3/4 ts White pepper
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Thyme
 
  Heat a large cast-iron skillet over very high heat OUTDOORS ON GRILL
  beyond smoking stage and you see white ash, at least 10 min.
  Meanwhile pour 2 TBS >>>>> melted butter in each of 6 small cups; set
  aside & keep warm. Reserve remaining butter in it's ski Thoroughly
  combine seasonings mix ingredients in small bowl. Dip each fillet in
  the reserved melted butter to coat both sides well. Sprinkle
  seasonings generously & evenly on bothsides of fillets, patting in
  with hand. Place in the hot skillet & pour 1 me
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 1
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Classic Pizza Toppings
    1/4 c  Cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Tomato (or Spaghetti sauce)
    1/2 c  Pepperoni -- sliced
           Yours or commercial
    1/2 c  Mushrooms; steamed --
           Drained
    1/2 c  Mozzarellah preserves
    1/2 c  Green pepper -- chopped
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese -- freshly
    3/4 c  Ground beef -- browned and
           Grated
           Drained*
 
  Lightly coat BOBOLI with sauce. Top with your choice of the above
  toppings. *Brown ground beef (or turkey if you prefer) with onion,
  crushed garlic, and any herbs you like. Salt and pepper to taste.
  Bake in oven 10-15 minutes at 400 degrees until cheese is melted.
  Formatted for MM by Norma Wrenn npxr56b (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 15
 Categories: Ethnic, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Cheese White Pizza
           Onion slices -- optional
           Mozzarella
           Blanched broccoil --
           Optional
           Gorganzola
        cn Substitute blue cheese
           Sharp Provolone
           Or other cheese for the
           Parmesan
           Gorganzola
 
  Brush the Boboli lightly with olive oil and put the cheese on
  liberally. Drizzle a few more drops of olive oil over it. Bake
  according to Boboli Pizza directions. Formatted for MM by Norma Wrenn
  npxr56b (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 16
 Categories: Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Boboli on the Barbecue
           Toppings
      1 lg Boboli
           WALDINE VAN GEFFEN
           VGHC42A-----
 
  Prepare Boboil, being careful not to overtop.  Light coals for fire.
  Coals are ready when mostly covered with gray ash. Place prepared
  Boboli on sheet of foil slightly larger thanBoboli. Place onto rack
  of grill and cover. Heat approximately 15 minutes.
  CAUTION-Overheating may cause bottom of crust to burn. On gas
  grilll-Light grill and preheat to low. Place prepared boboli on foil.
  Place onto rackof grill and cover. Heat approximately 15 minutes.
  Remove from grill.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 17
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pizza Marietta
      4    Italian sausages; cooked
    1/2 c  Pizza or Tomato Sauce
           Sliced
      1 lg Boboli or 4 small
      8    Red onion thin slices
      1 c  Green pepper -- thin strips
           Separated
      1 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
           WALDINE VAN GEFFEN
           VGHC42A-----
 
  Spread sauce on Boboli.  Sprinkle with cheese. Arrange remaining
  ingredients on top.  Bake at 450 degrees for 10 to 12 minutes. (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 18
 Categories: Ethnic, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Roast Pork & Apple Boboli
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Brown sugar
      1 sm Onion -- thinly sliced
    1/8 ts -salt
      1 ts Dijon-style mustard
      1 md Apple -- thinly sliced
      1 ts Grated fresh ginger
      8 oz Roast pork -- thinly sliced
      1 tb Orange juice
      1    8 oz Boboli Shell -- warmed
           Or
    1/2 ts Orange peel -- grated
      2    Six-inch shells
           DOROTHY CROSS TMPJ72B-----
 
  In 10-inch skillet, heat oil; stir in onion.  Heat until onion is
  limp. In small bowl, combine mustard, ginger, orange juice, orange
  peel, chili powder, brown sugar and salt. Add apple and sauce mixture
  to onion. Cover and cook over low heat until apples Spoon half of
  cooked mixture into each bread shell. Quarter each for ease in
  eating. Makes 2 large individual servings of 4 quarters each; or 4
  snack servings of 2 quarters each.Source: Mable Hoffman's "Finger
  Food". Formatted for MM by Norma Wrenn npxr56b (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 19
 Categories: Ethnic, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Garden Pizza
      1    Sweet red pepper -- diced
      1 lg Boboli or 4 small
      1    Yellow pepper -- diced
      2 tb Margarine or butter
  1 1/2 ts Thyme
      1    Zucchini -- sliced very
           Thin
           Black pepper to taste
      1 sm Red onion -- chopped
      1 oz Parmesan cheese -- freshly
      1 sm Stalk broccoli -- chop
           Grated
      4 oz Chinese pea pods
           ANN NIGGEMANN MBHP65B-----
 
  Preheat oven to 450 degrees.  Saute zucchini, onion and broccoli in
  margarine or butter until slightly tender. Add pea pods and stir two
  minutes.   Add red and yellow peppers, thyme and freshly grated black
  pepper as desired.  Stir mixture another minutes
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 21
 Categories: Ethnic, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Cobb Salad Pizza
           Vinaigrette of your choice
      1    14" Pizza Shell -- ready
           For
        lg Handful torn romaine
           Lettuce
           Use
           Spinach leaves
      1 ts Garlic -- finely chopped
    1/2 c  Grilled BBQ chicken
     14 oz Mozzarella cheese
           Shredded
  1 1/2 c  Fresh tomatoes -- cubed
    1/4 c  Bacon bits -- crumbled
      1 tb Parmesan cheese -- grated
           Blue cheese
      6    Fresh basil leaves
           Blanched corn kernals
           Cobb Salad Topping
           Defrosted-frozen
           DEE STATEN KGKJ66A-----
 
  Take pie shell-combine next 5 ingredients and spread over pie shell
  and bake until golden and bubbly- While pie is baking- toss greens
  with some vinaigrette- When pie is ready- place it on a serving tray-
  cut into desired slices- keeping in tack- place gr
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 22
 Categories: Ethnic, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Broccoli Pizza
      1    Egg
      1    14" Boboli pizza crust
      2 lg Cloves garlic -- crushed
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts -salt
    3/4 lb Fresh broccoli -- chopped
    2/3 c  Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  -water
           Salt and pepper to taste
    2/3 c  Ricotta chees
           LINDA REHBERG GNJX21A-----
 
  Heat oil in a large skillet til hot but not smoking. Saute broccoli
  about 1 minutes until coated with oil. Add water, cover, and cook at
  least 3 minutes until tender crisp. Whisk together ricotta cheese,
  egg, garlic and salt.  Add 1/3 cu Parmesan cheese. (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 3
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Greek Pizza
      1    Tomato -- sliced
    3/4 c  Tomato or Spaghetti sauce
    1/2 c  Greek olives -- sliced
           Yours or commercial
      1 ts Basil
    1/2 c  Feta cheese
           Olive Oil
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
           DIANE PRITCHARD
           BHJP68A-----
 
  Lightly brush bread with olive oil.  Spread a thin layer of sauce. Add
  grated cheese to cover sauce. Tjop with fresh sliced tomatoes and
  Greek olives. Sprinkle with Basil. Bake at350-375 degrees for 10-15
  minutes or until cheese melts.  Serve with green s
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 5
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pizza Primavera
      6    Asparagus spears -- cooked
           Olive Oil
           Basil -- fresh
    3/4 c  Mozzarella -- grated
           Oregano -- fresh
      3    Cherry tomatoes -- thinly
           Garlic -- crushed
           Sliced or halved
           Salt
    1/2 c  Broccoil -- lightly cooked
           Pepper
           DIANE PRITCHARD
           BHJP68A-----
 
  Brush bread with olive oil.  Cover with mixture of veggies. Sprinkle
  with herbs, garlic, salt and pepper. Top with cheese. Heat to taste
  or until cheese has melted. Formatted for MM by Norma Wrenn npxr56b
  (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 6
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           California Style Salad
           Bread
      1 c  Lettuce -- shredded
      1 c  Monterey Jack cheese --
           Shred
      1 c  Mandarin orange segments
    3/4 c  Sun-dried tomatoes
    1/4 c  Sunflower seeds
    1/4 c  Raisins
           Light -- creamy Herb
           Dressing
           Commercial
           DIANE PRITCHARD
           BHJP68A-----
 
  Arrange lettuce on bread. Scatter cheese over lettuce. Top with
  fruits and seeds. Sprinkle with the dressing. Cut into wedges.
  VARIATION: Avocado Salad Bread, Avocado sprinkled with lime juice,
  Tomato slices, Crisp bacon, crumbled. Layer these items over lettuce
  and cheese. Sprinkle with a ranch or Caesar dressing. Formatted for
  MM by Norma Wrenn npxr56b. (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 7
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Cheesy Mushroom Pizza
      1 lg Boboli shell or 4 small
      1 c  Mushrooms -- sliced
      1 c  Cheese -- shredded
      2 tb Oil
      4    Sun-dried tomatoes -- cut
           Into
    1/2 c  Pizza or tomato sauce
           Strips
           ANN NIGGEMANN MBHP65B-----
 
  Saute' mushrooms in oil for 2 minutes.  Spread sauce on shell;
  sprinkle cheese over.  Top with mushrooms and tomatoes. Bake at 450
  degrees for 10 minutes. Formatted for MM by Norma Wrenn npxr56b (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boboli Topping 8
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Vegetables with Beef
    1/2 lb Sirloin steak -- 2-1/2"
           Strips
      1 lg Boboli shell or 4 small
      1 tb Oil
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1 c  Broccoli florets -- fresh
    1/4 ts Ginger -- ground
    1/2 c  Red pepper -- sliced
    1/4 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Onion -- sliced
      2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Mushrooms, fresh -- sliced
      2 tb Dry sherry wine
    1/2 c  Beef broth
    1/2 ts Garlic -- minced
           ANN NIGGEMANN MGHP65B-----
 
  Combine cornstarch, ginger, sugar, soy sauce, sherry and garlic. Add
  beef strips and toss.  Let stand to marinate 15 minutes. Bake Boboli
  shell on ungreased baking sheet at 450 degrees for 5 to 7 minutes, or
  until crisp. Heat oil in skillet.  Add broccoli, red pepper, onion
  and mushrooms; saute. Remove and keep warm. Add meat mixture; cook
  until meat is brown. Add beef broth, bring to boil and cook until
  mixture thickens. Add vegetable mixture.  Spoon into cavity of Boboli
  shell. Formatted for MM by Norma Wrenn npxr56b (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Sesame Salad
 Categories: Salads, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Head broccoli
    1/4 c  Rice wine vinegar
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Sesame oil
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Sesame seeds -- toasted
 
  Wash broccoli, discarding leaves and toughest part of stem.  Blanch
  entire head in boiling water for one minute.  Rinse under cold water.
  Break off florets and cut remainingstem (peeled, if desired) into 2"
  pieces. Preheat oven to 450 degrees.  Spread broccoli pieces in one
  layer on a greased baking sheet.  Roast at 450 degrees for 5 minutes,
  turn broccoli pieces over, and continue roasting until broccoli
  begins to brown, about 5 minute more. Whisk together soy sauce,
  vinegar, and oils. Stir in 3 tablespoons sesame seeds. When broccoli
  is done, transfer to a bowl and pour dressing over it, stirring
  gently to coat. Sprinkle with remaining tablespoon sesame seeds.
  Serve warm or at room tempe
  
  Recipe By     : Elizabeth Powell
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buenuelos
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Ethnic
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ds Salt
           Egg
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
           Shortening
 
  Mix flour, sugar, baking powder, salt, and set aside. In medium bowl,
  beat egg and milk with fork. Gradually stir in flour,then melted
  butter. Turn out on floured board, knead gently until smooth and
  elastic. Divide into 12 equal parts, shape each into balls. Cover and
  rest 20 minutes. Roll balls out to 6 inch circles. Heat skillet with
  1 inch oil or shrotening, to 375 F. Fry circles one at a time,
  turning once, until ightly browned. Drain on paper towels. Serves as
  cookie, sprinkled with cinnamon and sugar. 12 buenuelos.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: C/P Chicken Cacciatore
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 ea Med Onions -- sliced thin
  1 1/2 ts Dried oregano -- crushed
      3 lb Chicken -- cut up
    1/2 ts Dried basil -- crushed
      2 c  Garlic -- minced
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 c  Tomatoes -- 16 oz
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Salt
           Cooked spaghetti
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Place onions in slow cooker. On top of onions place chicken pieces,
  garlic, tomatoes, tomato sauce, salt, pepper, herbs and wine. Cover
  pot. Cook on low 6 to 8 hours, or high 3 to4 hours. Serve chicken
  with its sauce on spaghetti which you have prepared. Judy/NC PJXG05A
  09/26/91 Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Seasoning I
 Categories: Condiments, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           SUSAN SHERMAN
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Salt -- (this is optional)
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 ts White pepper
           (MMJX57B)
 
  Mix and store  Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; October, 1993
  Posted in 1991
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chick Pea Skordalia (Garbanzo Beans)
 Categories: Ethnic, Vegetables
      Yield: 14 servings
 
      2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
    1/4 ts Black pepper -- or to taste
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Salt -- or to taste
    3/4 ts Liquid garlic
      2 ts Parsley -- fresh or dried
 
  In food processor of blender, blend garbanzo's with reserved
  liquid,olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, pepper and salt until smooth.
  Stir in parsley, place in serving bowl. Use as a dip or spread,
  especially with pita bread. (37 min left), (H)elp, More? Origin:
  Watkins 1994 Calendar Shared by: Sharon Stevens  Converted by MMCONV
  vers. 1.10
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken & Pork Filipino - Gwhp32a
 Categories: Ethnic, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Pork -- cubed
      1 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Peppercorns
      2 c  Garlic
  3 1/2 lb Fryer
      1    Bay leaf
      1 c  Coconut milk
           Oil
           Water
 
  Notes:  Chicken should be cut into 2" pieces.  I generally use
  breasts and thighs instead of a whole chicken, because of the ease of
  preparing. Garlic should be minced.  Method for coconut milk follows
  recipe, but this product is availabe in some large m
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken A La Mallorquina
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Chicken
      3 lb Each -- cut into serving
           Size pieces
      8 tb Olive oil
      2    Onions
           Finely minced
      3    Garlic cloves
           Finely minced
  1 1/2    Red peppers
           Finely sliced
  1 1/2    Green eppers
           Finely sliced
    1/4 ts Saffron
        pn Hot red pepper
    1/2 c  Proscuitto
           Finely cubed
      4 lg Ripe tomatoes
           Peeled -- seeded and finely
           Chopped
    1/2 c  White wine
           Bouquet garni*
      1 c  Chicken stock
     12    Raw shrimp
           Peeled
      2 tb Finely minced parsely
           Salt and pepper

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
      1 ts Tomato paste
      2 ts Cornstarch
           Mixed with a little wine

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           French bread fried in olive
           Oil
 
  *BOUQUET GARNI: In a pice of cheesecloth, tie the following: 3-4
  sprigs of parsely, 1 bay leaf, 1/2 celey stalk with leaves,1/2 ts dry
  thyme. Leave the string long enough to hand the garni in the pot and
  tie the string to the pot handle for easy removal.
  Dry the chicken pieces thoroughly with paper towels. season with salt
  and pepper. In a large skillet or chicken fryer, ehat 4 Tb of olive
  oil. Add chicken pieces a few at a time and brown then on all sides
  over meidum heat, partially covered. remove each piece as finished
  and reserve. add a little more oliv
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken A La Mallorquina Part One
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    3lb chickens
           Cut into serving pieces
           Salt and white pepper
      8 tb Olive oil
      2    Onions
           Finely miced
      3    Garlic cloves
           Finely minced
  1 1/2    Red peppers
           Finely sliced
  1 1/2    Green eppers
           Finely sliced
    1/4 ts Saffron
        pn Hot red peppers
           Or 2 dried chili peppers
    1/2 c  Proscuitto
           Finely cubed
      4 lg Ripe tomatoes
           Peeled,seeded -- finely
           Chop
    1/2 c  White wine
      1    Bourquet garni**
      1 c  Chicken stock
     12    Raw shrimp
           Peeled
      2 tb Finely minced parsely
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
      1 ts Tomato paste
      2 ts Cornstarch
           Mixed with a little wine

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           French bread
           Fried in olive oil and
           Garlic
      2 tb Minced parsley
 
  ** Bouquet Garni- In a pice of cheesecloth, tie the following: 3-4
  sprigs
    11/19/93         5:59 PM  celery stalk with leaves, 1/2 ts dry
  thyme. leave the string long enough to ha
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken A La Mallorquina Part Two
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
        E  *****
  
  Dry the chicken pieces thoroughly with pepar towels. season with salt
  and pepper. In a large skillet or chicken fryer, heat 4 tbsp of olive
  oil. Add chicken pieces a few at a time and brown then on all sides
  over medium heat, partially covered. Remove each piece as finished
  and reserve. Add a little more ol Add the procuitto, tomatoes and
  tomato paste, if desired. Bring to a boil and cook, uncovered,over
  high heat until most of the tomato juice has evaporated. Add the
  wine, Bouquet Garni and chicken stock. Bring to a boil and return
  chicken pieces to the pan. season again. Cover the pan and simmer on
  top of the stove over low heat for 45 minutes or until the chicken is
  tender. While the chicken is cooking, heat Season them with salt and
  pepper and sprinkle them with 2 tb of minced parsley and the
  remaining minced garlic. reserve. When the chicken is done, remove it
  with a slotted spoon to a serving platter. Raise the heat and reduce
  the sauce until it is thick e Garnish with more minced parsely and
  the fried bread. From "Seasonal Kitchnes, a Celebration of Fresh
  Foods." by Perle Meyers Shared by Terri Wolton on the Echo Board, and
  formatted for MM by Marge Nemeth.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken A La Maridionale Part One
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken
           Cut into serving pieces
           Salt
           Freshly ground white pepper
      2 tb Sweet butter
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Garlic cloves
           Finely minced
      2    Onions
           Finely sliced
      4 lg Ripe tomatoes
           Peeled -- seeded+chopped
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1    Bouquet garni**
  1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
      2 sm Zucchini
           Unpeeled -- cubed and
           Sprinkled with salt and
           Drained for 30 minutes
      1 sm Eggplant
           Unpeeled -- cubed and
           Sprinkle with salt and
           Drained for 30 minutes
      1    Green pepper
           Roasted -- peeled and
           Sliced
           Into strips
      1 tb Cornstarch
           Mixed with stock to make a
           Paste
      3 tb Minced fresh herbs
           Parsely,chives -- marjoram
    1/2 c  Pimento
           Cut into thin strips
 
  ** Bouquet Garni: In a piece of cheesecloth, tie the following: 3-4
  sprigs of parsley, 1 bay leaf, 1/2 celery stalk with leaves, 1/2 ts
  dry thyme.
   6:00 PM  string long enough to h
  
  Directions continued in next note
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken A La Meridionale Part Two
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
 
        E  *****
  
  Dry the chicken pieces thoroughly on paper towels. Season with salt
  and pepper. Heat the butter and 2 tb oil in a large chicken fryer or
  skillet and saute the chicken pieces a few at a time until evenly
  browned on all sides. Remove the peices to a side dish, regulate the
  heat so as not to burn the fat and Add the tomatoes and wine and
  bring the mixture to a boil, scraping the bottom of the pan well.
  Season the mixture with salt and pepper; add the Bouquet Garni and
  the chicken stock and return the chicken pieces to the pan.Cover the
  skillet and simmer the Heat 4 tb of olive oil in a large skillet and
  saute the eggplant until lightly browned. Remove the cubes to a thick
  layer of paper towels to drain. Add more oil to the skillet andsaute
  the zucchini pieces until they are lightly browned. Remove them to a
  s When the chicken is done, remove it with a slotted spoon to a side
  dish. Strain the pan juices, pressing down well on the vegetables to
  extract all their juices. Return the juicesto the pan and place the
  skillet over high heat. Beat in the cornstarch mixt Season. Add the
  mixed herbs or parsely and pimiento. Pour the sauced over the chicken
  and serve. From "Seasonal Kitchen, a Celebration of Fresh Foods", by
  Perle Meyers Shared by Terri Woltmon on Echo board, and formatted for
  MM by Marge Nemeth.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Ala Grecque
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           DAVID SAWYER
      3 lb Chicken; fryer -- cut i
           Into serving pieces
      2 tb Olive oil
     30 ml Garlic -- + or -(your
           Choice)
           Chopped
      2 tb Slivered almonds
      1    Onion -- thinly sliced
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms -- sliced
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 ts Dried mint
      2 tb Parsley -- fresh minced
     12    Greek olives
           (RJHV41A)
 
  Brown chicken (pork) in olive oil with garlic and almonds. When it is
  beginning to brown nicely, add sliced onions and mushrooms. Saute
  until onion turns clear.  Season with salt and pepper, but go lightly
  with the salt (because of the olives). Add wine,
  
  Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; October, 1993 Posted November, 1991
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken And Spinach In Coconut Milk--Mao Luau
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb CHICKEN
      2 lb FRESH SPINACH OR 2 PACKAGES
      2 ts SALT
      3 c  COCONUT MILK
      1 ts MSG
 
  TO MAKE COCONUT MILK: Pour 2 cups boiling water or scalded mild over
  4 cups of very finely grated or shredded fresh coconut. Let stand 20
  minutes. Strain through a double thickness of cheese cloth. Squeeze
  tightly to remove all the liquid. Makes 2 cups. OR, buy the coconut
  milk in the can--much easier. Disjoint chicken and place in a larg
  kettle. Add a small amount of water, bring to a boil and add
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Kiev     (Nfwf89a)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Chicken breasts; skinned --
           Salt to taste
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Green onion -- finely cut
           Fre
      6 tb Unsalted butter -- cut into
    1/2 c  Flour
      2    Egg -- lightly beaten
  1 1/2 c  Bread -- crunbsfresh
           Vegetable oil -- for frying
 
  Flatten the chicken breasts to a thickness of about 1/4 " by placing
  them between pieces of wax paper and pounding them lightly with a
  rolling pin or flat sided kitchen mallet. Lay out the breasts boned
  side up (the unsmooth side). Salt to taste and sprin
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Livers Indonesian Style
 Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Chicken livers
      1 c  Coconut milk
      3 tb Butter
      1    Onion -- chopped
      1    Clove garlic -- minced
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/4 c  Almonds -- ground
      2 tb Lemon rind -- grated
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Melt butter, add onion, garlic and chili powder, and saute 5 minutes,
  stirring frequently. Add livers and saute for  five minutes, until
  livers are cooked through, but stillpink inside. Add remaining
  ingredients and simmer over low heat for 10 minutes, st
  
  Recipe By     : Elizabeth Powell
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Marengo    Fjvs5a
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 lb Empire Kosher IQF Legs
           Cut up
      2    Onions; med. -- thinly
           Sliced
    1/4 c  Mushrooms -- sliced
      1 c  Dry White Kosher Wine
      2    Cloves Garlic
    1/2 ts Thyme
      2 tb Olive OR Vegetable Oil
      1 cn Peeled Tomatoes -- coarsely
      2    3 tbsp.
 
  Coat frozen chicken parts with flour, season with pepper. In a lrg.
  frying pan; heat oil and brown chicken legs lightly, about 8 mins.
  total time. Remove chicken, add onions, garlic and mushrooms to pan
  drippings. Cook about 5 mins. over med. heat. Return chicken to pan;
  sprinkle with thyme. Add tomatoes and wine. Simmer 45-50 mins.
  uncovered or until chicken it tender.
  
  MICROWAVE:  Drecease wine to 1/2 cup.  Mix all ingredients in lrg.
  microwave safe casserole without browning, cook covered with wax
  paper on High for 30-35 mins.
  
  I have not tried this recipe.  It comes from the Kosher Empire Poultry
  Chicken Leg Quarters Ice Glazed pkg. Marilyn Sultar
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Riganato
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           MARY SUE DAY
  2 1/2 lb Fryer
      1 ts Oregano
           Salt & pepper to taste
      1 c  Water
           Juice of 2 lemons
      1    Garlic clove -- - minced
    1/2    Block butter
      2 tb Olive oil
           (RBCK34E)
 
  Rub chicken w/juice of 1 lemon, salt & pepper. Mix remaining lemon
  juice w/oregano, garlic, & additional salt & pepper, & rub cavity of
  chicken. Place in pan w/butter & water, andbrush w/oil  Bake in oven
  450F. until golden brown; lower heat to 350F. Bake Variation: Omit
  butter. Season chicken as directed above. Place in roasting pan w/1c.
  water. Mix together 1/2c. olive oil & 2T. tomato paste; pour over
  chicken and bake.
  
  Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; October, 1993 Posted April, 1993
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Saronno | (Vvkx95a) 1i21
 Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Chicken breasts -- boneless
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- optional
    1/4 c  Amarretto de saronno
      1    Lemon -- grated rind+juice
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Cornstarch
 
  Cut chicken in 1" strips, sprinkle with salt + pepper, garlic powder,
  and curry powder. Roll strips in flour. Heat butter in large skillet.
  Brown chicken, add mushrooms (optional), amaretto, grated lemon rind
  and juice simmer 5 minutes. Mix chicken broth
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Sauce Piquant     Mm
 Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      2 c  Bacon drippings
      6 c  Plain flour
      7 c  Onion -- chopped
      1 c  Bell pepper -- chopped
      3 c  Green onions -- chopped
      1 c  Celery -- chopped
      3 c  Parsley -- chopped
    1/4 c  Garlic -- chopped
           Bacon drippings
     20 lb Oven roaster
           Water
      1 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
     16 c  Tomato sauce
      8 c  Chablis wine
  1 1/2 pt Stuffed olives
      6 tb Lea & perrins
      8 tb Louisiana hot sauce
      1 ts Dried mint -- crushed
      6 tb Salt
 
  The bacon drippings are for browning the chicken. The 20 lbs of
  chicken should be cut up in 2-inch-long pieces. Justin likes more
  wine in this sauce than some peoples.  If you don't wish to use all 8
  Cups of Chablis in the sauce, feel free to drink what t Make a roux.
  (see the recipe for Justin Wilson's roux, also posted here).
   Add onions, bell pepper, green onions, and celery and saute until
  onions are tender and clear.  Add parsley and garlic and saute. Brown
  off chicken while roux is being made.  After onions, etc. are tender,
  add water to bring roux to a smooth paste. Add all other ingredients
  and enough water to cover well.  Bring to a boil, and then cut heat.
  Cook for about 4 to 6 hours. Serve over
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken With Tonnato Sauce In Pita Pockets
 Categories: Main dish, Sandwich
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
      3    8-inch pita breads
      1 cn (3-ounce) tuna -- packed in
           Cut in half crosswise
           Water -- drained
      6 lg Lettuce leaves
    1/4 c  Reduced-calorie mayonnaise
           Rinsed and dried
      2 tb Nonfat yogurt
    3/4 lb Cooked skinless chicken --
           Or
  1 1/2 tb Defatted reduced-sodium
           Turkey -- thinly sliced
           Chicken stock
      2    Red bell peppers -- roasted
    1/2 tb Fresh lemon juice
           And sliced -- or (2) 2.6-oz
      1 ts Anchovy paste
           Jars roasted red peppers
     10 ml Garlic -- minced
           Drained -- rinsed and
           Sliced
      1 pn Cayenne pepper
 
  In a food processor or blender, combine tuna, mayonnaise, yogurt,
  chicken stock, lemon juice, anchovy paste, garlic and cayenne;
  process until smooth. Taste and adjust seasonings.To assemble the
  sandwiches, line pita halves with lettuce and fill with chic
  
  191 calories per serving: 5 grams fat, 226 mg sodium, 50 mg
  cholesterol.
  
  COMMENTS: Inspired by the northern Italian dish vitello tonnato, or
  veal in tuna sauce, this sandwich features the unusual combination of
  chicken or turkey with creamy tuna sauceand roasted peppers. Source:
  Eating Well Magazine - July/August, 1992  Reformatted for Meal Master
  by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chiliquiles
 Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           From the Kitchen of
    1/2 c  Oil
           Lawrence & Cindy Kellie
      1 cn Tomato sauce -- large can
     24    Corn tortillas
           Garlic salt
      2 lg Onion -- diced
           Onion salt
      1 cn Olives
           Cayenne pepper
 
  Saute onions.  Add tortillas broken in small pieces. Add all other
  ingredients.  Mix well.  Place in baking dish (what size??? whatever
  it fits in).  Warm to serve. Add Longhorn Cheddar cheese (or any
  other) if you like.
  
  Source:  Olga Herrera
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chop Chae
 Categories: Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 oz Clear noodles
      1 tb Oil
      1 ts Salt
      2    Celery stalks
           -sliced diagonally
      2 md Onions -- sliced vertically
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- fresh or
           Canned
      1 md Carrot -- shredded
    1/4 lb Fresh snow peas --
           Julienned
    1/2 lb Beef or chicken
      2    Eggs
      1    Soy sauce
           Fresh ground black pepper
 
  Soak noodles in hot water; drain and chop coarsely. Beat eggs, fry
  and cut into thin strips. Cut meat into thin pieces and marinate as
  in Bul-ko-kee. Heat  wok; add oil; when hot, add salt and stir-fry
  vegetables one at a time.  As vegetables are cooked, remove and keep
  warm in a large metal bowl or pot on low heat. Fry meat last; add to
  vegetables; add noodles; mix well and season to taste with soy sa
  
  From Chuck Ozburn HBWK07A.
  
  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coq Au Vin (Chicken In Wine) #1
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           JUDI M. PHELPS (BNVX05A)
           Bouquet garni*
  3 1/2 lb Chicken -- cut up in pieces
    1/2 ts Salt -- optional
      6 sl Bacon -- diced in large
           Piece
    1/8 ts Pepper
      4 tb Butter or margarine
     16    White boiling onions --
           Small
      1    Onion -- chopped
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms --
           Quartered
      2    Shallots -- minced
           If large or halved if small
      3    Garlic cloves -- minced
      2 tb Brandy
      2 c  Rich chicken stock
      1 tb Flour
      2 c  Dry red wine -- good
           Quality
 
  *Bouquet garni - place 1/2 celery stalk cut in half, 2 parsley
  sprigs, 1 bay leaf, 1 thyme sprig or 1/4 tsp. dried thyme, and 1 leak
  or green onion in a cheesecloth tie with a string to make a small bag.
  
  In a 5-quart dutch oven cook bacon on medium heat. Remove bacon bits
  with a slotted spoon and set aside. Add butter to pan; then add
  chicken pieces and brown lightly on all sides. Add shallots, garlic,
  chopped onions, reserved bacon, wine, chicken stock,
  
  To serve, remove chicken, onions, and mushrooms to a heated platter
  with slotted spoon.  Remove and discard bouquet garni. Thicken liquid
  by mixing 1 tabl. flour with 1 tabl. water. Stir into liquid in pan
  and simmer for a few minutes until slightly thick Converted by MMCONV
  vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Creole Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           JEAN ALLEN
    1/4 lb Cooked ham
      1 ea Fryer chicken cut up
      1 ts Salt
      1 ea Green pepper -- chopped
    1/2 lb Polish sausage -- sliced
      6 ea Green onions -- chopped
      3 c  Cooked rice
     16 oz Can tomato paste
           Several drops of bottled
           Hot
           (GRDG72B)
 
  In crockpot combine chicken, pepper, onions, tomatoes, tomato paste ,
  ham, salt and hot pepper sauce. Cover and cook on low 4-5 hours. Turn
  control to high. Add sausage and cookedrice. Cover and cook on high
  20 minutes. Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Rice Snack Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Ethnic
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Rice
  1 1/8 ts Active dry yeast
      3    Eggs -- beaten
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
           Oil
           Powdered sugar
 
  * Yeast should be active dry yeast, not the instant type. This takes
  an overnight period of time for rising so plan accordingly. This is a
  very different type of "sweet".      1. Pour rice into 3 cups of
  RAPIDLY boiling water. Cook until tender. Do not cover. Drain, then
  chill and mash. 2. Dissolve yeast in 1/2 cup lukewarm water. Add to
  rice; mix well and then let rise overnight.(outside of refrigerate)
  Keep covered with a dish towel or loose fitting cover. 3. Add eggs,
  sugar and flour to the rice mixture; beat thoroughly. Let rise for 15
  minutes; stir in nutmeg. 4. Drop by large spoonfuls into deep, HOT
  oil. Fry until golden brown, drain on paper towels. Sprinkle with
  powdered sugar. After you make this the first time by the directions
  given, you can then experiment with your own choice of spices. I have
  used a bit of lemon extract, also cinnamon, cardamon, orange extract
  and grated orange zest. Best to use only 1 or 2 additions so th
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crockpot Jambalaya
 Categories: Crockpot, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Carrots -- sliced
      1 ts Dried oregano -- opt.
      2    Garlic clove -- minced
    1/2 ts Dried basil
      1 ts Salt
      1 lb Shrimp; raw -- shelled
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 c  Rice -- cooked
           JUDY GARNETT PJXG05A-----
 
  Put chicken and all other ingreds. (EXCEPT SHRIMP AND RICE) in
  crockpot. Cover pot. Cook on low 4 to 5 hours, or on high 2 to 2 1/2
  hours. Place shrimp and rice in slow-cooker. Cover pot. Cook on High
  for 35 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: El Pollo Loco-Style     Dolores In Long Beach
 Categories: Main dish, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  White wine vinegar
      1 c  Garlic -- crushed
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Tabasco
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Cilantro -- chopped
           Salt -- to taste
 
  Combine all ingredients in a glass dish and marinate chicken,
  covered, 8 hours or overnight.   FROM: DOLORES GILLETTE (SRDS42A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: English Sweet And Sour Ribs      Jo
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Chuck short ribs *
    3/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose
           Flour
      2 ts Seasoned salt
      1 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
      2 c  Sliced onion
  1 1/2 c  Hot water
      8    Heaping t dark brown sugar
    1/3 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
      2 lg Bay leaves
 
  *  Short ribs should be meaty and cut in the English cut.
  ~------------------------------------------------------
  ~------------- ---- Trim excess fat from short ribs. Combine flour,
  seasoned salt and pepper; dredge shrot ribs.  Brown ribs in oil on
  all sides in Dutch oven. Remove meat from pan.  Add onions and cook
  until golden brown.  Place ribs on top of onions.  Combine water,
  brown sugar, catsup, vinegar, garlic and bay leaves; pour over ribs.
  Cover and bake in moderate oven (350 degrees F.) 2 1/2 hours.  Remove
  bay le
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Feijoada Latin Style
 Categories: Casseroles, Ethnic
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 lb Black beans
      6 c  Water
      1 lb Ham cubes -- 3/4 inch cubes
      1 lb Pork loin -- 3/4 inch cubes
    3/4 lb Italian sausage links -- cut
           In 1" pieces
      1 pt Cherry tomatoes
      1    Onion -- chopped
      1 ts Red pepper flakes
      6    Garlic cloves -- minced
    1/8 ts Orange zest
 
  This is pronounced  fay-oh-ah-da. 1. Cover beans with cold water and
  soak overnight, or cover them with boiling water and let stand for 2
  hours; drain. 2. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In a large dutch oven,
  combine all ingredients. Bring to a boil, skimming if necessary.
  Cover and transfer to oven. 3. Bake for 1-1/2 hours; remove cover and
  bake for 30 minutes longer, stirring occasionally. Allow to cool
  slightly, then cover and refrigerate overnight. 4. Remove any fat
  from surface. Reheat the feijoada slowly.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gai Pad Kieng/Hed    (Hkrt62b)
 Categories: Ethnic, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Chicken -- boneless/bite
           Sized
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/4 ts MSG
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Garlic -- chopped fresh
      2    Green onions -- cut into 1"
           Pi
      1 ts Sesame seed oil
      1    White onion -- sliced
    1/2 c  Chinese straw mushrooms
    1/4 c  Ginger -- finely chopped
           Fresh
    1/4 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 ts Fish sauce -- or to taste
      3 c  Cooked rice -- hot
      1    Cucumber -- bite pieces
           Garnis
 
  Directions: Mix chicken, sesame seed oil, soy sauce, MSG, cornstarch,
  garlic, sugar, and fish sauce. Let stand for 5 minutes. In a wok, cook
  chicken mixture in hot oil on medium heat for 3-4 minutes. Add onions
  and ginger, stir a few times and add mushrooms. Cook for 2 minutes
  longer and add chicken broth. Pour over rice. Garnish with cucumbers.
  Serve hot. -Sopit 10/4  5:00pm MT. FROM: SOPIT MERRELL (HKRT62B)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garam Masala W/Uses
 Categories: Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Whole black peppercorns
      4 ts Cumin seed
      1 tb Coriander seed
  1 1/2 ts Whole cloves
      1 ts Cardamom seeds
      3    " stick cinnamon -- broken
           WALDINE VAN GEFFEN
           VGHC42A-----
 
  If using cardamom pods, crush slightly between 2 spoons. Remove seeds
  and discard. Place all of the spices in an 8x8x2" baking pan; heat in
  a 300~ oven for 15 minutes. In a blender container place spices.
  Cover tightly; blend till very fine. Store in a tightly covered
  container in a cool, dry place for up to 6 months. Yield 1/3 cup.
  USES-Season rice: Add about 1 ts per 1 c rice before cooking. Seson
  rice with butter and salt before serving. Spice up chicke Rub all
  over chicken pieces before grilling, roasting or broiling. Season
  with salt to taste and add a squeeze of lemon, if desired. Toss with
  veggies: Stir 1/2 ts into about 2 tbmelted butter and toss with
  cooked veggies such as carrots, parsnips, squash
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Giant Cheese Rolls (Ensaimada)
 Categories: Ethnic, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Yeast -- not instant
    1/4 c  Warm water
      4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Margarine
      6    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
  2 1/4 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded --
           Sharp
           Additional margarine or
           Sugar, if needed
 
  1. Dissolve the yeast in the 1/4 cup warm water. 2. Sift flour, baking
  powder and salt together. Best if sifted twice. Into the yeast
  mixture, stir 1/4 cup sugar and 1/2 cup flour mixture. Cover and let
  rise in warm place for about 20 minutes, until doubled in size. 3.
  Cream margarine; add remaining sugar gradually until well mixed. Add
  egg yolks, one at a time, beating very well after each one. Beat in
  the remaining flour, alternating with the evaporated milk. Stir in
  the yeast mixture and beat until smooth. 4. Turn the dough onto a
  lightly floured surface and divide into 12 parts. Roll each part into
  an 8-inch circle. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of the cheese onto each
  circle. Roll circles like a jelly roll and coil into crescent shape.
  5. Place on ungreased baking sheets. Cover and let rise in warm place
  until doubled in size, about 1 to 1-1/2 hours. 6. Preheat the oven to
  400 degrees and bake the rolls for 15 to 20 minutes or until golden
  brown. 7. Remove from oven and immedaitely brush with some melted
  margarine, a sprinkling of sugar and remaining cheese. Serve while
  warm. Yields 12 large rolls. If making smaller ones, adjust cooking
  time accordingly.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingered Chinese Noodle Soup Cgdr39a
 Categories: Asian, Ethnic
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           EILEEN LAMPARELLI CGDR39A
      1 c  Ham cut into julienne
      3 oz Cellophane noodles
      1 c  Shredded watercress leaves
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced mushrooms
      1 md Onion -- sliced
      1 c  Snow peas
      2    Carrots sliced diagonally
      1 ts Oriental sesame oil
      1 ts Minced fresh ginger
      1 ts Rice vinegar
      3 c  Chicken stock
      2    Green onions thinly sliced
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Put  cellophane noodles in large bowl.   Cover with boiling water. Let
  stand 5 minutes.  Drain thoroughly.
  
  Heat oil in wok or deep large skillet over medium high heat. Add
  onion and carrots and stir fry 3 minutes. Add garlic and ginger stir
  fry 30 seconds. Add stock, water and soy sauce. Cover and boil 2
  minutes. Add ham water cress, mushrooms and noodles. Return to boil.
  Cover, turn off heat and let steep 2 minutes. Add snow peas, cover
  and let steep until vegetables are crisp tender about 3 minutes. Stir
  in sesame oil, rice vinegar and red pepper flakes. Adjust seasoning.
  Serve in deep bowls, sp
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Goan-Style Chicken With Roasted Coconut (Shak
 Categories: Main dish, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/4 tb Coriander seeds
  1 1/2    One in cube ginger chopped
  2 1/4 ts Whole cumin
      9    Cloves garlic
  1 1/2 ts Whole black mustard seeds
    3/4    Fresh hod green chili
  1 1/2    One inch stick cinnamon
  2 1/4 c  Water
      6    Hole cloves
      6 tb Vegetable oil
    3/8 ts Whole black peppercorns
      3 md Onions -- minced
    3/8 ts Ground nutmeg
  3 1/3 lb Chicken parts -- skinned
  1 1/2    Whole dried hot red chili
  2 1/4 ts Salt
      3 c  Grated fresh coconut
 
  Put the coriander seeds,  cumin seeds,  mustard seeds, cinnamon,
  cloves, peppercorns,  nutmeg  and red chili in a small frying pan.
  Place over a medium  flame. Now quickly 'dry-roast' the spices,
  stirring them frequently until they emit a very pleasant 'roasted'
  aroma. Empty the spices into a clean coffee grinder or spice grinder
  and grind until fine. Put spiced in bowl. Put the coconut into the
  same frying pan and dry roast it over a medium flame, stirring all
  the time. The coconut should pick up lots of brown flecks and also
  smell roasted. Put the coconut in the bowl with the other dry roasted
  spices. Put the garlic, gi Turn heat to medium. Put in the chicken
  pieces, salt, as well as the spice coconut mixture in the bowl. Stir
  and fry the chicken for 3-4 minutes or until it loses its pinkness
  andturn heat to low, and cook for 25 to 30 minutes or until chicken
  is tender.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Lamb Burgers
 Categories: Main dish, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
      1 lb Lamb leg meat -- trimmed of

MMMMM-------------------YOGURT-CUCUMBER SAUCE:------------------------
           Ft and cut into cubes
    1/2 c  Nonfat plin yogurt
    2/3 c  Fresh breadcrumbs
    1/2 c  Diced cucumber
      2 tb Dry white wine or water
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      2 tb Chopped fresh dill
           Salt to taste
      2 tb Chopped fresh mint

MMMMM-----------------------LAMB BURGERS:----------------------------
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      1 ts Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Pine nuts -- coarsely
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black
           Chopped
           Pepper
     20 ml Garlic -- minced
      4    6" whole-wheat pita breads
 
  To make yogurt-cucumber sauce: In a medium-sized bowl, stir together
  all ingredients. To make lamb burgers: In a small skillet, heat oil
  over low heat. Add pine nuts and saute until they begin to color,
  about 30 seconds. Add garlic, and saute until light golden, about 30
  seconds longer. Turn the mixture out onto a small plate and let cool.
  Prepare a grill or preheat the broiler. In a meat grinder or food
  processor using an on/off motion, grind lamb. In a large bowl, moist
  Grill or broil the patties on a lightly oiled rack until browned and
  cooked through, about 5 minutes per side. Tuck the patties into pitas
  and top with yogurt-cucumber sauce. Serves 4. COMMENTS: Because you
  grind the lamb yourself (a food processor does the job nicely), you
  can guarantee that the meat is the lean portion from the leg. 355
  calories per serving: 10 grams fat, 673 mg sodium and 57 mg
  cholesterol Reformatted for Meal Maste
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbed Green Beans
 Categories: Vegetables, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 pk French Sytle Green Beans*
    1/8 ts Crushed Basil
    1/8 ts Crushed Rosemary
      2 tb Chopped Parsley
 
  * 3 (10-oz.) pkg. Green Giant French Style Green Beans Frozen in
  Butter (67 min left), (H)elp, More?   Sauce.
  
  Cook beams accordint to pkg. directions. Remove from pouch and pour
  into serving dish. Sprinkle with herbs and parsley.
  
  The recipe comes from my "Pillsbury Festive Holiday Recipes" cookbook,
  Classics #13. Marilyn Sultar  ___--  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.10
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Fry Bread
 Categories: Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Whole-wheat flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Honey
      2 c  Vegetable oil -- for frying
 
  Mix the flours, salt, sugar and baking powder together. Add about 1/2
  cup water and mix well, adding a bit more water if needed to make a
  stiff dough. Turn out on lightly floured surface and knead until
  dough becomes elastic and smooth. Let rest for 10 minutes. Roll out
  1/2 inch thick. Cut into squares, strips, or circles. Deep fry in
  very hot oil until golden brown. Drain on brown paper bags or paper
  towels. Drizzle honey in a very thin stream over bread and serve
  immediately. Sprinkle with a little cinnamon if desired. This is not
  the traditional fry bread since it has honey in it, but is a favorite
  also.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hungarian Pastry
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Ethnic
      Yield: 48 servings
 
      4 c  Flour
      1 lb Oleo
      4    Egg yolks
      8 oz Sour cream
           Filling*
 
  * Use prune lekvar, solo filling, apricot preserves, or anything!!!!!
  Mix flour and oleo like pie dough. add egg yolks to sour cream, and
  beat well. Pour into flour mixture and blend with hands. Put on flat
  plate and over with oleo paper**, cover with dis After baking- dust
  with confectioner's sugar. Aunt Mary Nemeth's recipe.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Impossible Burrito Bake
 Categories: Casseroles, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Bisquick
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Water
      1 c  Salsa
      1 cn Refried beans -- any
           Variety
      1 c  Or more -- shredded cheddar
           Ch
      1 lb Ground beef
           JUDY WALTER  NWTP92A-----
 
  Mix Bisquick, water and refried beans together and put it in the
  bottom of a greased pie plate. Brown and drain seasoned ground beef;
  put on top of mixture in pie plate. Add salsaand then cheese. Bake,
  uncovered, for 30 minutes at 350 or till golden brown
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Impossible Taco Pie #2
 Categories: Ethnic, Casseroles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    3/4 c  Bisquick
    1/2 c  Onion -- chopped
      3    Eggs
  1 1/4 oz Taco seasoning mix
      2    Tomatoes -- sliced
      4 oz Green chilies -- drained
      1 c  Monterey jack cheese --
           Shredd
  1 1/2 c  Milk
 
  Heat oven to 400~. Grease pie plate. Cook and stir beef and onion
  until beef is brown; drain. Stir in seasoning mix; spread in plate.
  Sprinkle with chilies. Beat milk, baking mix and eggs until smooth,
  15 seconds in blender on hiigh or 1 minute with hand Top with diced
  tomatoes; sprinkle with cheese. Bake until knife inserted between
  center and edge comes out clean, 8 to 10 minutes. Cool 5 minutes.
  Serve with sour cream, lettuce, tomatoes and cheese. Formatted by
  Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A (wrv)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Spiced Beef And Vegetables
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 ts Cumin seeds
      1 lg Onion -- finely chopped
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
  1 1/2 c  Tomato juice
    1/2 ts Garam masala*
      1 c  Peas -- thawed
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
  1 1/2 ts Salt
           Freshly cooked rice
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
           EILEEN LAMPARELLI
           CGDR39A-----
 
  Cook beef and onion in heavy large skillet over medium heat until met
  is no longer pink, crumbling with fork, about 10 minutes. Add all
  remaining ingredients, except rice. Cover and cook 15 minutes. Serve
  with rice. GARAM MASALA - An Indian spice mixture To substitute, mix
  3/4 ts. ground cumin with 3/4 ts. ground coriander, 1/2 ts. pepper,
  1/2 ts. ground cardamon, 1/4 ts. ground cloves, and 1/4 ts. ground
  cinnamon. Use 1/2 ts. of spice mixture for this recipe. SOURCE:
  Shere-Punjab Restaurant, Toronto, Canada
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Chicken Dinner 2
 Categories: Crockpot, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Cabbage -- cut in wedges
           And frozen
      1 c  Mushrooms -- canned
      1    Jars Meatless spaghetti
           Sauc
      2 tb Tapioca -- quick cooking
           Parmesan cheese -- grated
      1    Chicken -- broiler or fryer
           JUDY GARNETT PJXG05A-----
 
  In a 3 1/2 to 6 quart crockery cooker place cabbage wedges, onion and
  mushrooms.  Sprinkle tapioca over vegetables. Place FROZEN chicken
  pieces atop vegetables. Pour spaghetti sauce over chicken. Cover;
  cook on low-heat setting for 10 to 12 hours.  Transf Makes 6 servings.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jambalaya     (Btvc62a)
 Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 lb Pork -- cut into narrow
           Stri
      1    Onion -- chopped
      1    Green pepper -- sliced
      1    Red bell pepper -- sliced
      4 oz Mushrooms -- thickly sliced
      1 c  Rice -- uncooked long-grain
      2 c  Chicken stock
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
      4 oz Sausage -- smoked  sliced or
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
      4 oz Shrimp -- peeled deveined
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  Heat oil and butter or margarine in a large
  heavy saucepan.  Add pork strips; saute until well browned.  With a
  slotted spoon, transfer browned pork to a 3-quart casserole.  Add
  onion and green and red peppers to fat remaining in sk Recover
  casserole; bake 10 minutes longer or until liquid has been absorbed
  and meat is tender. To serve, garnish jambalaya with whole shrimp and
  tomato wedges. Makes 4 servings. Rita in Scottsdale   09/22 03:15
  P.M. FROM: RITA TAULE (BTVC62A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Low-Cal Spanish Baked Fish
 Categories: Ethnic, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fish fillets
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Green pepper -- cut in
           Rings
      1    Tomato -- sliced
      1    Onion -- sliced
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Olive oil
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
      2    Lemons -- *see note
 
  Cut the 2 lemons into wedges. Cut fish into serving-sized pieces.
  Place in oven-proof baking dish. Sprinkle with salt, paprika and
  pepper. Top with green pepper rings, tomato slices and onion slices.
  Mix lemon juice, oil and garlic. Pour over the fish fillets. COVER
  and bake 15 minutes at 375 degrees.      UNCOVER and bake about 10-13
  minutes longer or until fish flakes easily. Serve with lemon wedges.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Pasta
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      5    Sticks butter or light
           Margarine
      1 c  Olive oil
     15    Roma tomatoes; seed -- cut
           -in strips
      2 bn Green onions -- chopped
     24    Artichoke hearts -- chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley -- chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh basil -- chopped
    200 ml Garlic -- sliced
      4 ts Salt or to taste
      1 ts Black pepper or to taste
      1 ts Cayenne pepper or to taste
      5 lb Shrimp; cook -- peel
           Pasta
 
  This makes about 1 gallon of sauce. Heat margarine and oil in heavy
  pan. Add onions, herbs and garlic and saute briefly. Add shrimp and
  seasonings and heat; then add artichoke hearts and tomatoes and heat.
  Do not cook for long; tomatoes should remain firm
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandel-Halbmonde (Almond Crescents)
 Categories: Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Butter Or Margarine
  2 1/2 c  Flour -- Unbleached
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Almonds -- Ground
      1 ts Vanilla Extract
           Confectioners' Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Almond Extract
 
  Beat together butter and sugar until very light and fluffy.  Blend in
  extracts.  Mix in flour and almonds.  Using about 1 T of dough for
  each, shape into logs and bend into crescents.  Place on greased
  cookie sheet. Bake 12 to 15 minutes at 350 degrees F until light
  brown.  While warm, roll crescents in confectioners' sugar.  Cool on
  racks and store in a tightly sealed container. Makes 3 dozen cookies.
  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.10
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandeltorte
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Pastry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
      3    Eggs
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Double-acting baking powder
      1 c  Shelled almonds -- ground
      1 ts Almond extract
    1/4 c  Raspberry jam
      2 tb Powdered sugar -- sifted
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
 
  Have 1/2 cup butter at room temperature.  Sift together flour, baking
  powder, and 1/3 cup sugar.  Cut the 1/2 cup butter into dry
  ingredients with a pastry blender until mixture resembles cornmeal.
  Beat one egg and stir into flour mixture.  Pat into a 9" Soften
  remaining 1/2 cup of butter and beat remaining sugar into it.  Beat
  in two eggs, one at a time, beating well between each.  Stir in
  almonds and extract. Pour over pastry. Bake at 350 degrees for 30
  minutes. Remove from oven and cool one hour. Spread jam over torte.
  Mix powdered sugar with enough lemon juice to form a spreadable
  icing.  Use a pastry bag fitted with small hole to pipe icing in a
  design over top of torte.
  
  Recipe By     : Elizabeth Powell
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mashed Potato Soup
 Categories: Side dish, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Onion -- diced
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/8 ts Pepper
     30 oz Cans chicken broth
      2    Bay leaves
 
  2-3 ea cloves; minced garlic 3-4 T chicken; or bacon fat 1/2 to 1 c
  water 4-5 ea med russet potatoes* 1-2 ea chicken bouillon cubes** 1-2
  T white vinegar 2-3 T cornstarch*** 3-4 Tsour cream***  *peeled and
  diced **(optional) ***dissolved in 1/4-1/3 cup co Immediately add
  chicken broth and 1/2 to 1 cup water to fill pot half full. Add
  peeled and diced potatoes and bring to boil. Add salt, pepper, bay
  leaves and 1 or 2 bouillon cubes to suit taste. Reduce to medium heat
  and cook for 30 to 40 minutes. Take out bay leaves. Remove pot from
  heat and use a hand masher to mash potatoes in LISA HLAVATY (FDGN81A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave New England Boiled Dinner
 Categories: Ethnic, Microwave
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  3 1/2 lb Corned beef brisket
      1    Bermuda onions -- thinly
           Sliced
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      2    Bay leaves
           Black pepper -- to taste
      3    Potatoes -- sliced
      4    Carrots -- sliced
      1    Cabbage head
           Hungarian paprika --
           Optional
 
  1. Place the brisket in a 3-quart casserole dish; add 3 cups water.
  Lay slices of onion over top; add garlic, bay leaves and black
  pepper.      2. Cover and microwave on highpower for 10 minutes.
      3. Turn brisket over and cover again. Microwave on low 4. Add
  sliced potatoes and carrots to broth. Cut cabbage into 6 wedges and
  arrange in a circular design on top of meat. Add a dusting of
  Hungarian paprika to potatoes and cabbage if you prefer.      5.
  Cover and cook at high temperature for 25-30 minutes,
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Middle Eastern Sandwiches
 Categories: Ethnic, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pita pocket
    1/4 c  Hummus
    1/3 c  Tabouli
      2 tb Feta cheese -- crumbled
      1    Leaf
    1/4 ts Tomato -- chopped
    1/4 c  Alfalfa sprouts
      1 tb Greek olives -- chopped
           Lemon dill dressing (see
           Recipe)
           Romaine lettuce
 
  Cut top 1/4 from pita pocket and reserve for another use*.  Open
  pocket and spread one side with hummus.  Spoon in tabouli.  Add
  remaining ingredients, drizzling salad dressing over all.  This
  serves one, but is easily multiplied for many. * Broiled pieces of
  pita bread are excellent for dipping extra hummus.
  
  Recipe By     : Elizabeth Powell
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mochiko Chicken     (Xpst31a)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken cleaned*
      1 tb Chinese Oyster sauce
      2 tb All Purpose flour
      2    Eggs
      4 tb Cornstarch
           MSG -- Optional
      4 tb Mochiko**
           Chopped green onions
      4 tb Granulated Sugar
      7 tb Seasame seeds -- to taste
      5 tb Soy sauce
 
  *boned and cut up in bite sizes. **(Sweet flour made from glutinous
  rice) Mix all of the ingredients with the cut up chicken in a large
  bowl, stir well to coat all of the chicken.Marinate for two or three
  hours. Fry in a large skillet as you would with no Drain on paper
  towels and serve hot. This basic recipe is from the Honpa Hongwanji
  Buddist Temple Cookbook published in Honolulu in 1973. That same
  Buddist temple has since then published an additional four or five
  cookbooks. All of them I am told are ver .....Aloha..."Kapena" FROM:
  THEODORE SEDGWICK (XPST31A) 02/18/92 0:19 AM
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moussaka Di Mare (Eggplant And Tuna)
 Categories: Ethnic, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Eggplant
      6 tb Margarine
      1    Onion -- chopped
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
           Tomatoes, canned -- 16-oz
           Can
     14 oz Tuna, canned -- two cans
      3 tb Tomato paste
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Black pepper
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 c  Milk
      3 lg Eggs -- beaten
    2/3 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Use tuna packed in water if you prefer, or 1 can of each type of
  tuna. 1. Wash, then slice the eggplant into 1/2-inch slices. Sprinkle
  slices with salt and let stand 15 minutes. Pat the slices dry, then
  place on an oiled baking sheet. 2. Melt 2 tablespoons margarine in a
  skillet, add about 2 tablespoons oil then brush eggplant with half of
  this mixture. Bake the eggplant in PREHEATED 350-degree oven for 10
  minutes. Remove and set aside. 3. In the same skillet, saute the
  onion and garlic until limp and tender. Add the drained tomatoes,
  tuna, tomato paste, cinnamon, 1/4 teaspoon salt and pepper. Mix well.
  Heatfor 3-4 minutes,stirring often. 4. Melt remaining margarine in a
  saucepan; stir in flour and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Cook for 1 minute. Add
  milk slowly and stir until the mixture boils and thickens. Gradually
  pour the hot sauce into the 3 beaten eggs, stirring constantly, then
  add the cheese 5. Arrange half the eggplant slices in a shallow
  2-quart baking dish. Cover with tuna mixture then top with remaining
  eggplant slices.  Pour the cheese mixture on top. 6.Bake in preheated
  350-degree oven 40 minutes or until golden brown.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Delhi Spiced Chicken
 Categories: Ethnic, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Ground turmeric
      1 ts Curry powder
      1 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/8 ts Chili powder -- * pure
           Black pepper -- to taste
      3 tb Butter -- or margarine
      4    Boneless skinless chicken
           Breast halves -- cubed
      2    Onions -- chopped fine
      2    Tomatoes -- chopped
      2    Green bell peppers --
           Chopped fine
      1    Celery stalks -- chopped
           Fine
      3    Parsley sprigs -- minced
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
    1/3 c  Seedless raisins
      1 tb Dry sherry
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
 
  * Pure chili contains only chili powder. There are no other spices in
  it. Strengths vary from mild to fiery hot. If you cannot find pure
  chili for this recipe, try regular chili.
  
  1. Heat two tablespoons butter or margarine in a large skillet. Place
  first six ingredients in skillet (all the spices), brown for 1 minute
  over high heat. 2. Have the chicken breasts boned, skinned and cut
  into bite-sized cubes. Place chicken in skillet with browned spices;
  stir to coat well then brown 1 minute longer or until chicken has
  turned white on the inside. (Cut a piece to check) Remove from pan an
  3. Add remaining butter to pan and saute onions over high heat until
  limp. Add remaining ingredients, including browned chicken, and cook
  over medium heat until celery is tender but still slightly crisp.
  Vegetables will give off some juciness as they cook Serve over brown
  rice.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oahu Plaintain Bake
 Categories: Ethnic, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Plantains -- semi-ripe
      1 tb Honey
      1 tb Margarine
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  * Select large plaintains that are ripening but not completely.
  Should not be mushy. In a saucepan, bring 2 cups water to a boil. Add
  1/4 teaspoon salt. Immediately add the plaintains which have been
  washed, cut into 4 pieces each, unpeeled. Cook until tip of sharp
  knife will pierce skin easily, about 7-9 minutes. Transfer to
  colander to drain and let cool briefly. Peel plaintains and place
  into blender. Add margarine, honey, cinnamon and nutmeg. Puree
  coarsely, not completely smooth. Divide among 4 serving dishes, top
  with sour cream and sprinkle with more fresh ground nutmeg if
  desired. This recipe can be doubled.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old New England Boiled Dinner
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Corned beef brisket
      6    Carrots
      2    Turnips -- * see note
      6    Onions
      6    Potatoes
      1    Cabbage head
 
  * Substitute rutabagas for turnips if desired. Cut meat into serving
  sized pieces, cover with water and bring to a boil. Lower heat and
  simmer for 3-1/2 hours approximately. Remove meat and keep warm.
  Scrub the vegetables and cut into quarters or cubes. Cut the cabbage
  into 6 wedges. Bring the broth to a boil; add carrots, turnips,
  onions and potatoes. Cook for 15 minutes. Add cabbage and cook for
  15-20 minutes longer. Arrange meat on serving platter and place
  vegetables around the meat in an attractive pattern. Sprinkle all
  with fresh ground black pepper.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old-Fashioned Filled Cookies
 Categories: Ethnic, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
           Phillip Bower- FHMN87A
  3 1/2 c  Unbleached flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Butter -- softened
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
      2    Eggs
    1/3 c  Milk

MMMMM-----------------------RAISIN FILLING----------------------------
      1 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 c  Raisins (may need 1 3/4 c)
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ds Salt
      1 tb Cornstarch
  1 1/4 ts Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts

MMMMM------------------------DATE FILLING-----------------------------
      1 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Flour
      1 pn Salt
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Chopped dates
      2 ts Grated orange peel
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
  Prepare the cookie dough first. Sift the flour, baking powder, and
  salt together; set aside. In a large bowl, cream the butter and sugars
  thoroughly. Add the eggs, milk and vanilla; beat at high speed for 2
  min. Lower the speed and add the flour mixture g Refrigerate for at
  least 3 hours. To prepare the raisin filling, grind the rasins. You
  should have 1 cup of ground raisins. In a medium saucepan combine
  raisins,brown sugar, water,
  5:28 PM  lemon juice. Bring to a b Combine the 2T of water and
  cornstarch, use to thicken the raisin mixture. when cool stir in the
  nuts. To make the date filling combine the ingredients in a saucepan,
  bring to a boil and cook for 3 minutes breaking the dates with a
  spoon. Remove from heat, cool then add the nuts. Roll out the dough
  on a floured surface until thin (1/8 in).Cut into 2 3/4 in Bake at
  350 F. for exactly 8 minutes. The cookies will be pale yellow. Allow
  cookies to remain on cookie sheet until almost cool. From Cooking
  from Quilt Country by Marcia Adams.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Grilled Chicken
 Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Boneless skinless chicken
           Breasts
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      2 ts Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Rice wine
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 tb Scallions -- chopped
      1    1/2" slice ginger root,
           -chopped
 
  Cut chicken breasts in half.  Mix remaining ingredients together in a
  shallow pan large enough to hold breasts in one layer.  Place breasts
  in marinade, turning to coat and rubbing marinade into breasts.
  Marinate at least one hour and as long as overnigh Grill chicken over
  hot coals or under broiler.  Strain marinade, bring it to a boil, and
  serve it with chicken.
  
  Recipe By     : Elizabeth Powell
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Our Crockpot Spaghetti Sauce
 Categories: Crockpot, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Judy Garnett pjxg05a
  1 1/2 ts Dry mustard
      2 lb Ground beef
      3 tb Quick tapioca (Heaping)
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
      2 ts Oregano -- crushed
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      1 ts Basil
      1 cn Mushrooms -- drained
      1 ts Salt
      1    Green pepper -- chopped*
     30 oz Tomato sauce
     28 oz Can crushed tomatoes
 
  * The green pepper is optional. Brown meat. Drain all grease and then
  blot with paper towels. Spray Pam in crockpot. Add onion, garlic,
  crushed tomatoes, tomato paste, salt, oregano, basil & mushrooms.
  Cover crockpot and turn heat to LOW.  Cook for approx Converted by
  MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven Baked German Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Karen Thackeray
      1 pn Salt
           Pancakes
           Toppings
      6    Eggs -- slightly beaten
           Syrup -- your choice
      1 c  All-purp flour
           Confectioners sugar
      1 c  Milk
           Brown sugar
      3 tb Butter -- melted
           Fruit mixed with yogurt
 
  Preheat oven to 450F. Grease well a 13x9x2-inch baking dish. Combine
  eggs and flour in bowl. Add milk, butter, and salt; mix well. Pour
  into prepared dish. Bake for 15-20 min or until puffed. Cut into
  serving pieces. Serve with desired toppings. Source: Apron Strings
  This is really easy to do! Hope it helps.
  
  Karen in S.CA
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paella Deluxe
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 lb Chicken -- cut into pieces
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Chopped onions
      2    Garlic cloves
      3 tb Margarine
      2 c  Rice
      1 pn Saffron
      4 c  Chicken broth
      2 c  Green peas
      1 lb Cooked shrimp
      1 c  Chopped ham
      1    Italian sausage -- sliced
     24    Cherrystone clams -- in
           Shells
 
  Prepare all ingredients before beginning assembly. Scrub clams well.
  Cook shrimp or buy already cooked. Slice sausage and chop the ham.
  Cut chicken into serving sized pieces.Cook green peas until barely
  tender. Chop onions and bruise garlic; mince if you 1. Use a very
  heavy skillet to heat the olive oil. Add 4-5 pounds of cut-up skinned
  chicken pieces. Brown well on all sides then add 1/2 cup water. Cover
  tightly and cook until chicken is tender, about 30-35 minutes. 2.
  Remove chicken from pan and se 3. In a medium saucepan, melt
  margarine then add uncooked rice and a pinch of saffron; do not use
  too much saffron. Stir over low heat for 5 minutes. Add 4 cups broth
  or broth and water mixed. Bring to a boil, cover, and cook on low
  heat for 17-18 minutes 4. Stir the rice mixture into the pan with the
  onions and garlic. Add green peas and blend well. 5. Use a 4-quart
  casserole or a paella pan to finish preparations.  Layer the rice,
  chicken, shrimp, ham and sausage in pan. Bury some of the clams
  partially into the mixture. Place rest of clams on top. Bake at 350
  degrees until paella is heated through and clams are open. Discard
  any clams that do not open.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paraguayan Corn Bread
 Categories: Ethnic
      Yield: 10 servings
 
           JUDI M. PHELPS (BNVX05A)
      2 c  Cream-style corn (16 oz)
           All-purpose flour
      1 ts Salt -- preferably coarse
      2 md Onions -- chopped fine
      1 c  Milk
      8 tb Margarine -- divided
      2 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 lb Farmer or cottage cheese
      6    Eggs -- separated
    1/2 lb Muenster cheese -- shredded
        pn Ground anise seed
           (optional)
           Coarse
 
  Grease 13x9x2-inch baking pan and sprinkle with 1 tablespoon flour.
  Shake to remove excess.  In skillet saute onions in 4 tablespoons
  margarine. Add farmer cheese; blend thoroughly. Add Muenster cheese,
  onions corn salt, milk and cornmeal; mix thoroughly. Serve hot, cut
  in squares.
  
  NOTE:  For a pleasant variation and slightly different texture, cut
  some of the Muenster into tiny cubes to measure 1/2 cup and stir into
  batter at last moment. SOURCE: Women's Day 365 Money-Saving Menu and
  Recipes, Number 2.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pastitso (Greek Pasta Supreme)
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CREMA--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      8 tb Flour
           Salt
      4 c  Milk
           White Pepper
      4    To 6 Egg Yolks

MMMMM--------------------------PASTISTO-------------------------------
      8 oz Macaroni (2 c raw) -- cook
           And
      1 tb Olive oil
           Drain

MMMMM------------------------MEAT FILLING-----------------------------
      1 oz Butter
           Salt
      1 lg Onion -- finely chopped
           Freshly ground Black Pepper
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Tomato paste
    1/2 c  Dried breadcrumbs
    3/4 c  Dry Red Wine
  1 1/2 c  Grated Kefalotiri OR
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
           Parmesan Cheese
 
  Preheat oven to 350~. Melt 1 oz of butter in large skillet and saute
  onion til soft and transparent. Add the meat, cook until browned. Mix
  tomato paste with wine and add to meat. Continue cooking, adding
  nutmeg, salt, pepper, and cinnamon. Cook about 15 m To Assemble:
  Grease a baking dish (LIKE A LASAGNA PAN) and sprinkle it with
  breadcrumbs. Spread half the cooked pasta over the bottom of the dish
  and sprinkle it with 1/4 c reserved cheese. Spread all of the meat
  over the pasta. Pour half the sauce over t
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Persian Chicken And Peaches
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           JUDI M. PHELPS (BNVX05A)
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1 cn Peach slices (29 oz size)
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
      3 tb Flour
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
    1/2 ts Oregano
      1 c  Celery -- minced
      1 ts Salt (optional)
    3/4 c  Carrots -- shredded
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 cn Tomato sauce (8 0z)
      1    Broiler-fryer (3-1/2 lb)
  1 1/2 tb Brown sugar
           Cut into small pieces
      1 tb Tarragon vinegar
      3 tb Oil
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
 
  Drain peaches reserving one cup syrup.  Combine flour, oregano, salt
  (optional) and pepper.  Dredge chicken in flour mixture, brown in oil
  and place in a casserole. Saute onion, garlic, celery, and carrot in
  remaining oil.  Blend in remaining ingredients
  
  Source:  Chicken Recipes, Merit Publications Converted by MMCONV
  vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizella-Small Eggplant Pizza
 Categories: Vegetables, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Eggplant
           Dried oregeno
           Mozzarella cheese
      1 c  Thick tomato pasta
           Sliced thin
           Sauce with spices
           Salt
           Grated parmesan chese
           Dried Basil
 
  Cut the eggplant crosswise into 3/8" slices. Then cut each slice into
  quarters. Salt lightly on each side and set on paper towels for 20
  minutes.Then pat dry pieces and arrange them on a PAMed cookie sheet.
  Brush lightly with olive oil and sprinkle pieces Serve immediately.
  FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/20 1:54 AM  TO:
      RUTH BURKHARDT (KKBG35A) FROM: RUTH BURKHARDT (KKBG35A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM PIZZA MEGA
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza With Tuna, Basil, And Pine Nuts
 Categories: Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Active dry yeast
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
    3/4 c  Lukewarm water
      2 cn Tuna fish -- 6-oz each
  1 1/2 c  High-gluten flour
           Drained
        pn Salt
           Coarse salt -- to taste
  1 1/2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
           Ground pepper -- to taste
  1 1/2 lb Fresh tomatoes
      8 tb Pine nuts -- lightly
           Toasted
      3 tb Extra virgin olive oil
           Fresh basil
      1    Onion -- thinly sliced
 
  Pizza Dough:  Combine the yeast with 1/4 cup of water. cover and leave
  until double in volume.  If the mixture does not rise, throw it away
  and use a fresh package of yeast. If using a food processor, fit the
  bowl with a steel blade and put the flour, sal Pizza: Preheat oven to
  400 degrees. Peel the tomatoes either by placing them in boiling
  water for a few minutes or by charring them over a gas flame or under
  a broiler. Slip off the skins while the tomatoes are still warm. Heat
  2 tablespoons of the oil in Sprinkle with the basil and serve. FOOD
  AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/20 1:55 AM  TO:      RUTH
  BURKHARDT (KKBG35A) FROM: RUTH BURKHARDT (KKBG35A) SUBJECT: R-MM
  PIZZA MEGA
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pollo Criollo Con Ajo - Chicken With Garlic
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Green peppers -- chopped
      1 c  Canned tomatoes
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Oil
      2    Onions -- chopped
      2 ts Oregano -- crushed
    1/2 c  White wine
      7 lb Chicken -- in serving
           Pieces
     10    Gloves of garlic -- crushed
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
 
  Season chicken pieces with salt and pepper. Heat oil in a large
  flameproof casserole and saute chicken until browned all over. Remove
  chicken and set aside. Add to the casserole the onions, garlic,
  peppers and 1 tsp of salt and saute until the onions are Thicken
  sauce with 2 Tbsp of flour if a thicker sauce is desired.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polynesian Pork Centennial
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Pork chops
      1 cn Pineapple chunks in juice
      1    Onion -- chopped
    1/4 c  Celery leaves -- minced
      1    Garlic clove -- minced
     12    Prunes -- pitted
      2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Marjoram
      1 c  Celery -- sliced diagonally
      1 c  Rice
      1 ts Ginger
 
  1. Trim excess fat from chops; lightly grease heavy skillet wtih fat
  from 1 chop. Brown chops on both sides; drain off excess fat. Season
  lightly with salt and pepper. 2. Drain pineapple (medium can, use
  sweetened or in its own juice as you desire). Combine the juice,
  onion, celery leaves, garlic, prunes, soy sauce and marjoram. Pour
  over chops. Simmer, covered, for 20-30 minute (depending on thickness
  of chops). 3 Prepare rice according to package directions; add
  ginger, stirring to blend. Serve pork over rice.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poulet Au Champignon-Perdue
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           The Perdue Chicken Cookbook
      1    Perdue chicken,cooked --
           Chunks
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1 sl Bacon -- cut into small
           Pieces
      2 oz Fresh mushrooms
      1    Onion -- chopped
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Flour
      2 tb Chicken stockj or water
      1 tb Brandy
      1 tb Chopped tarragon leaves
 
  Melt butter or margarine in fry pan. Brown bacon in butter or
  margarine, add chicken, mushrooms, onion, salt and pepper and brown
  lightly. Add flour and stir. Add chicken stock and stir. Add brandy
  and tarragon leaves.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prudhomme Spice Mix
 Categories: Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Cayenne pepper -- plus
  1 1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 tb Salt
  1 1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
      1 tb Black pepper
      1 ts Onion powder
      2 ts White pepper
 
  This is the spice mixture which Paul Prudhomme recommends for
  hamburgers in "The Prudhomme Family Cookbook."
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puerto Rican Rice
 Categories: Ethnic, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  White rice
      1 lg Can of tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Diced ham
      1 ts Paprika
      2 tb Sofrito
      1 c  Peas
      1 ts Oregano
      3 tb Capers
  1 1/2 c  Water
           EILEEN LAMPARELLI
           CGDR39A-----
 
  In a skillet fry dry rice with ham; add sofrito, oregano, tomato
  sauce, paprika and water.  Cover and let simmer until rice is almost
  tender. Add peas and capers. Heat another 5 minutes and serve.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Real Southern Chess Pie
 Categories: Ethnic, Pie/tart
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    8-inch pastry shell --
           Unbaked
      1 c  Packed brown sugar
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Flour
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Margarine -- melted
      1 c  Pecan halves
 
  Mix the sugars and flour. Thoroughly beat in the eggs, milk, vanilla
  and margarine. (Don't use soft margarine.) Fold in the nuts.  Halves
  are traditional but you can use chopped pecans. Pour into an unbaked
  pie crust and bake in preheated 375-degree oven for 40-50 minutes.
  Best served slightly warm with whipped cream.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Creole - Gwhp32a
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      3 c  Rice -- hot/cooked
      2 tb Shortening
      2    Onions -- sliced
      4    Celery -- stalks/chopped
      1 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  Tomatoes; cooked -- chopped
      2 c  Peas
      1 tb Vinegar
  1 1/2 c  Shrimp -- cooked
      2 ts Chili powder
      1 c  Water
 
  Cook the onions and celery until brown in the shortening.  Add flour,
  seasonings and slowly add the water. Cook 15 minutes, then add the
  tomatoes, peas, vinegar, sugar and shrimp.Continue cooking about 10
  minutes more, or until shrimp are heated through. Serve over the
  cooked rice.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Fried Chocolate Pies
 Categories: Chocolate, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour -- fat
           Removed
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable shortening --
           Solid
    1/3 c  Water -- cold
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Cocoa powder -- unsweetened
      1    Stick margarine -- cold
           Oil
 
  * Use peanut, safflower or solid vegetable shortening for frying. 1.
  For crust: sift flour and salt together; cut in the shortening with a
  pastry blender or 2 knifes, until mixture resembles coarse cornmeal.
  2. Add ice water, a little at a time while tossing with a fork, until
  dough holds together. Do not get too moist. 3. Roll out dough to 1/8
  inch thick. Cut into circles about five inches in diameter. 4. Mix
  cocoa powder with the sugar. Place 2-3 tablespoons of this mixture
  onto one half of the circle and place 3 very thin slices of cold
  margarine on top. Fold opp 5. Pour oil to a depth of about 1/2 inch
  in a heavy skillet. Heat over medium-high heat until very hot. Place
  pies in a single layer in oil and fry, turning to brown each side. An
  iron skillet works best. Serve hot, warm, or cold.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Style Gumbo
 Categories: Ethnic, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2    Onion
      2    Celery stalks
    1/2    Green bell pepper
      3    Tomatoes
      2 tb Margarine
      1 cn Chicken broth -- 10.75
           Ounces
      1    Bay leaves
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
           Salt -- to taste
     12 oz Crab meat -- canned
           Rice, cooked
 
  1. Slice onion, celery, green pepper and tomatoes into uniform size
  slices. 2. Melt margarine in a large saucepan. Saute sliced
  vegetables until tender. Add chicken broth, bay leaf, thyme and
  cayenne pepper. Simmer for 30 minutes. 3. Remove bay leaf and stir in
  thawed crabmeat and salt. Heat only to warm crabmeat. Serve over hot
  rice.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southwest Cornbread
 Categories: Breads, Ethnic
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Cornmeal
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Black pepper
      2 ts Double-acting baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      2    Eggs -- beaten
      1 c  Buttermilk
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
  8 3/4    Creamed corn
    1/3 c  Yellow onions -- minced
      2 tb Hot chili peppers -- minced
      1 tb Green peppers -- minced
      1 tb Pimientos -- minced
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
 
  1. Combine the cornmeal, flour, sugar, salt, pepper, baking soda and
  baking powder. Combine the remaining ingredients and add to the first
  mixture. Blend only until mixed, donot overmix. 2. Place mixture in a
  10-inch greased baking pan. Bake in an iron skillet if you have one.
  Bake in a preheated 350-degree oven for 35 minutes or until golden
  brown.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Fresh Fruit Frappe
 Categories: Beverages, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Watermelon -- diced
      1 c  Cantaloupe -- cubed
      1 c  Pineapple -- diced
      1 c  Mangos -- sliced
      1 c  Strawberries -- halved
      1 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Sugar
 
  Mix all the ingredients. Fill blender 1/2 full of mixture and fill to
  the top with crushed ice. Cover and blend on high speed until a
  uniform consistency is achieved. Repeat with remaining mixture. Serve
  immdiately, garnishing with fresh fruit if desired. Yield: about 7
  cups. This can be doubled or tripled.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Paella - Gwhp32a
 Categories: Ethnic, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Fryer -- cut up
    1/4 c  Flour -- all-purpose
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2    Carrots -- pared/sliced
           Lngthws
      2    Onions -- peeled/quartered
      1    Celery -- rib with leaves
      2 c  Chicken broth
      1    Garlic clove
    1/4 c  Pimiento -- chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Oregano -- ground
    1/4 ts Saffron -- ground
    2/3 c  Rice -- long-grain
      9 oz Artichoke hearts --
           Frzn/thawed
    3/4 lb Shrimp -- cleaned/shelled/ra
     12    Clams -- small in shells
 
  Coat the chicken with mixture of flour, 1 tsp. salt and a dash of
  pepper. In a heavy skillet, brown the chicken in hot oil about 20
  minutes.  Place in a large kettle.  Add the next 10 ingredients.
  Cover and simmer 30 minutes.  Add artichoke hearts, shrim
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced German Pot Roast  Grdg72b
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Shortening
      1 ts Salt
      4 lb Beef chuck roast
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Catsup
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Vinegar
      2    Garlic cloves -- crushed
 
  H-------------------Gravy Melt shortening in a large skillet, or
  large pan you can bake in. Brown meat over medium heat about 15
  minutes. Season with salt and pepper. Reduce heat;add water to
  skillet or baking pan, and cover tightly . Place in 325 degree Place
  meat on warm platter; keep warm while making gravy. Serve gravy with
  meat. 6-8 serv. Spicy Gravy Pour drippings into bowl, leaving brown
  particles in pan. Let fat rise to top of drippings; skim off fat,
  reserving 1/4 cup. Place reserved fat in pan.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Salmon With Lomi-Lomi Relish
 Categories: Ethnic, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------LOMI-LOMI RELISH---------------------------
      2    Tomatoes -- chopped
      1    Bell pepper -- seeded and
           Chopped
      3    Green onions -- sliced thin
    1/2 c  Yellow onions -- chopped
      3 tb Green chiles -- chopped
      2 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 ts Salt

MMMMM---------------------------SALMON--------------------------------
      2 lb Atlantic salmon
      2    Bay leaves
      1    Lemon -- thin sliced
    1/2 ts Peppercorns
           Lettuce leaves
           Lemon wedges
           Lomi-Lomi relish: --
 
  1. Combine chopped tomatoes, the chopped green pepper, green onions,
  yellow onions, canned green chilies, lemon juice and salt. Blend;
  cover tightly and chill. 2. For salmon, have ready a large heavy pan
  with a steamer rack or a wok with steamer rack. Place a double layer
  of cheesecloth on the rack. Have the salmon cut into serving sized
  pieces (either 4 or 6 servings). Place the salmon on the cheesecloth
  (cut s To serve, place lettuce leaves, attractively arranged, on
  serving dish. Place a serving of salmon, and to the side, a serving
  of lomi-lomi sauce.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Chicken And Broccoli
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Broiler-Fryer Chicken
           Thighs -- boned
    1/4 ts Ground Ginger
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 tb Peanut Oil
      1 bn Fresh broccoli -- sliced
           -thin crosswise
      1 c  Sliced Green Onion -- white
           -and green parts included
    3/4 c  + 2 T Chicken Broth --
           Divided
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan Cheese
 
  Whole Wheat croutons (recipe follows)  Chop chicken into bite-size
  pieces. Sprinkle ginger and pepper over chicken.  In a large fry pan
  or wok, pour oil and heat to high temperature. Add chicken and
  stir-fry 3 minutes or until brown. Push chicken to side and add
  broccoli and onion. Stir-fry 3 minutes more. Mix together 3/4 cup
  broth, salt and sugar and stir into fry pan. Reduce heat to
  medium-high, cover and cook 2 minutes. Add cornst
  
  SOURCE: *Oneida Daily Dispatch SHARED BY: Jim Bodle 2/93  Recipe
  courtesy of:  Jim Bodle, 01 Mar 93  03:41:07  Converted by MMCONV
  vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-Dried Tomato Cream Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           OLIVIA EVANS (VPRJ01A)
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Onion -- chopped
     28 oz Crushed plum tomatoes in
           Puree
    1/2 c  Sun-dried tomatoes --
           Chopped
    1/4 c  Wine
           Pepper
    1/3 c  Heavy cream
           Parsley
           Parmesean cheese
 
  Serve over tortellini or ravioli. Heat olive oil in skillet. Add
  onion and saute over medium heat for 3-4 minutes. Add tomatoes in
  puree, sun-dried tomatoes and wine. Bring to a boil and lower heat.
  Simmer for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add pepper
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tabbouleh With Raisins
 Categories: Ethnic, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Bulgur
    2/3 c  Scallions -- sliced
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley -- lightly
           Packed
  2 2/3 tb Fresh lemon juice
    3/8 c  Seedless raisins
  1 1/3 tb Corn oil
  1 1/3 tb Sesame oil
           Black pepper -- to taste
 
  1. In a large mixing bowl, pour boiling water over bulgur just enough
  to cover. Let set for 20 minutes until water is absorbed and bulgur
  is tender. 2. Drain excess water from bulgur and squeeze out any
  remaining water, using your hands. 3. Add sliced scallions, chopped
  parsley and fresh lemon juice to bulgur. Mix well, then add remaining
  ingredients and blend.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Chicken Fettuccine Salad
 Categories: Salads, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Picante sauce
    1/4 c  Chunky peanut butter
      2 tb Honey
      2 tb Orange juice
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      6 oz Fettuccine; cook, drain --
           Hot
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      3    Chicken breast halves
           -boneless, skinless, cut
           -into 1" pieces
           Lettuce leaves (opt)
    1/4 c  Cilantro -- coarse chopped
    1/4 c  Peanut halves
    1/4 c  Red pepper -- thin strips
           -cut in halves
           PATTI - VDRJ67A-----
 
  Combine picante sauce, peanut butter, honey, orange juice, soy sauce
  and ginger in a small saucepan. Cook and stir over low heat until
  blended and smooth. Reserve 1/4 cup of sauce mix. Place fettuccine in
  large bowl. Pour remaining sauce over fettuccine; toss gently to
  coat. Cook chicken in oil in skillet over medium-high heat
  untilbrowned and cooked, about 5 minutes. Add reserved 1/4 cup
  picante sauce mix; Top with chicken mixture. Sprinkle cilantro,
  peanut halves and red pepper strips over top. Refrigerate until
  cooled to room temperature. Serve with additional picante sauce.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: That Chop Suey Dish
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Chicken -- cubed
      2 c  Pork -- cubed
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 c  Celery -- peeled, julienned
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Water -- or broth
  1 1/2 c  Waterchestnuts, canned --
           Sliced thin
  1 1/2 c  Bamboo shoots -- julienned
           Almonds -- sliced
           Chinese noodles OR
           Cooked rice
 
  * Use cooked, cubed chicken and pork.
  
  1. Cube raw chicken and pork; add to peanut oil which has been heated
  in a heavy skillet. Stir over low heat until meat is white (about 10
  minutes). 2. Add 1/2 cup chicken broth, celery which has been cut in
  julienne strips, soy sauce, sugar and salt to taste. Cover and cook
  on low heat until celery is tender but still crisp. 3. Mix 1 teaspoon
  cornstarch with 1/2 cup water or broth. Stir into the meat mixture;
  bring to a boil, then add water chestnuts and bamboo shoots which
  have been julienned. Cover and simmer for a few minutes. Add salt and
  pepper if you think it needs more Serve over Chinese crispy noodles
  or over hot steamed rice. Add the almonds at serving time if you are
  using them.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tortilla Stack
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Shirley Ferguson -- mhrh24b
      1 cn Cheddar cheese soup --
           Undilut
  1 1/2 lb Lean ground beef
      1 pk Taco seasoning mix -- dry
           Corn tortilla -- cut into 6
      3 md Tomatoes -- chopped
           Wedges

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1    Red bell pepper -- chopped
      2 c  Lettuce -- shredded
      1    Avacado, peeled -- chopped
    1/4 c  Green onions -- chopped
 
  Crumble one-fourth of ground beef into bottom of slow cooker. Top with
  one-fourth of tortilla wedges. In small bowl, combine soup and taco
  mix. Spread one-fourth of soup mixture over tortillas in pot.
  Sprinkle with one-fourth of tomatoes. Repeat layering until all
  ingredients are in pot. Cover and cook on LOW 4-5 hours. Spoon onto
  indiviual plates. Top each serving with sour cream, shredded lettuce,
  green onions, bell pepper and avocado.  1 serving contains: Cal 372;
  Prot 21g, Carb 25g, Fat 23g, Chol 67mg, Sodium 387mg. Source: Mable
  Hoff
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: West Indian Shrimp
 Categories: Ethnic, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp, cooked -- drained
           And peeled
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Angostura bitters
      1 ts Dried chervil
    1/2 ts Marjoram
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Cumin seed
    1/4 ts Saffron
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  In an ovenproof skillet, heat olive oil until smoking. Quickly saute
  shrimp. Sprinkle with bitters and herbs. Top with Parmesan cheese and
  broil until lightly browned.
  
  Recipe By     : Elizabeth Powell
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Western Style Jalapeno Cornbread
 Categories: Breads, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Cornmeal
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 tb Sugar -- optional
      2 ts Double-acting baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      2 lg Eggs -- beaten
      1 c  Buttermilk
    1/3 c  Onions -- minced
      1 c  Creamed corn -- 8 ounce can
      2 tb Green peppers -- minced
      2 tb Jalapeno peppers -- chopped
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
 
  Combine dry ingredients in mixing bowl. In a separate bowl add the
  beaten eggs and all the remaining ingredients, blending well. Add the
  two mixtures together and stir only until moistened. Use a heavy cast
  iron skillet if available; if not, use a 9-inch square baking dish.
  Grease the skillet or dish, pour in the mixture and bake in a
  preheated 350-degree oven for 30-35 minutes or unitl golden brown.
  Cool slightly and serve immediately.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Pizza    Bdgm08b
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Denise Bradshaw
      2 oz Feta cheese -- crumbled
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
      1 oz Parmesan/Romano cheese --
           Grtd
    1/4 c  Butter -- melted
      1 ts Olive oil
           Dough or pizza shell
    1/2 ts Oregano
      4 oz Cheddar or swiss cheese --
           Grtd
           Red hot pepper -- to taste
      4 oz Mozzerella cheese -- grtd
 
  Ssaute garlic in butter until light brown.  Spray bottom of pizza pan
  or cookie sheet w/non-stick oil; knead dough to fit, or place shell...
  Sprinkle cheese on top; drizzle w/olive oil, sprinkle oregano & red
  pepper (if desired) on top.  Bake @425 until golden brown.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: % Sausage, Beef, And Ribs With Rigatoni
 Categories: Italian, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      3 c  Water
      2    Onions -- chpd
      2 c  Dry red wine OR water
      8    Cloves garlic -- minced
      6 oz Tomato paste
  1 1/2 lb Boneless chuck -- cut 1"
           Cubes
      2 tb Fresh basil -- chpd
      1 lb Italian sausage -- sliced
    1/2    "
      1 lb Cooked rigatoni
      6    Beef short ribs
           Parmesan cheese
  1 1/2 c  Marinara sauce
 
  In a large pan, saute onions and garlic in oil until tender. Remove
  and set aside. Add chuck to pan, brown on all sides, then remove to
  onion dish. Add sausage and brown, Return all to pan. Add ribs,
  mainara sauce, water or wine, tomato paste and spices a
  
  This is absolutely excellent. I made my spaghetti sauce in place of
  marinara sauce. Next time, change the ribs and beef and substitute
  round steak.  The wine makes it! Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aioli.      (Kfnr49b)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Thick slice French bread
    1/8 ts Salt
           Milk
      1 c  Olive oil
      4    Cloves garlic
      1 tb Boiling water
      2    Egg yolks  /
           Lemon juice
 
  I find a recipe in my Encyclopedia of Cooking by JoAnna Morris for
  aioli. Here it is: Remove the crusts from bread and soak in milk.
  Squeeze dry. Place in large mortar with garlic & mash with pestle
  until a fine paste. Add the yolks & salt & mash in. Drop by drop
  pound in olive oil. When the sauce becomes thick; the remaining oil
  may be beaten in. Thin with water & lemon juice to taste. FROM: PAM
  HOUGLAN (KFNR49B)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bagna Cauda With Vegetables (Fdgn81a)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Condiments
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 cn Anchovy fillets (2oz)
           Thinly sliced
      1 c  Olive oil
      1 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Butter
           Assorted vegetables
     20    Cloves garlic -- peeled and
 
  Bagna Caude (Anchovy and Garlic Sauce): Drain and dry anchovies.
  Place in HEAVY saucepan and add oil, butter and garlic. Cook over
  very low heat for about 1 hour. Sauce should barely bubble during
  this time. Add cream and simmer 5 more minutes. Serve warm
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Ziti With Three Cheeses     (Drwn11a)
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      6 oz Ziti
      1    Clove garlic -- minced
     15 oz Ricotta cheese
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      8 oz Mozzarella cheese --
           Shredded
        pn Ground nutmeg
      1    Egg -- lightly beaten
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
 
  Cook pasta following package directions; drain. Preheat oven to 350F.
  Grease 2-quart casserole.  In lg bowl, blend ricotta, 1 cup
  mozzarella, egg, parsley, garlic, pepper & nutmeg; stir in ziti.
  Spoon into prepared casserole & sprinkle with remaining mozzarella &
  Parmesan. Bake until top is golden, about 30 min. Makes 8 ser
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basil-Scallop Linquine (Part 1 Of 2)
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 md Cloves garlic
           Crushed
      2    Shallots -- minced
      2 tb Minced fresh basil or
      2 ts Dried basil leaves --
           Crushed
      2 tb Minced Italian parsley
           Salt
    1/4 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
    1/8 ts Ground black pepper
      1 cn (16 oz.) whole tomatoes
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 pk (8 oz.) whole wheat
           Linguine or spaghetti
      1 lb Sea scallops
      1 pk (9 oz.) frozen artichoke
           Hearts -- thawed
      2 tb Pine nuts
           Fresh Italian parsley
           Or basil (optional)
 
  Directions are in part 2 of this two-part recipe set. ENJOY!
  
  Recipe By     :
                        -INGREDIENTS
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basil-Scallop Linquine (Part 2 Of 2)
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Dottie Cross TMPJ72B
 
  1. In a 3-qt. saucepan over medium heat, heat 1 tablespoon olive oil.
  When oil is hot, ad garlic and shallots. Cook, stirring constantly
  with a wooden spoon until garlic and shallots are tender but not
  brown. Remove from heat. 2. Add basil, parsley, 1 tsp Remove from
  heat and set aside. 6. Drain cooked linguine thoroughly. Place on a
  large serving platter. Spoon tomato mixture over pasta. Toss gently
  until thoroughly combined. Sprinkle with toasted pine nuts and
  garnish with fresh Italian parsley. Makes 6 servings. Nutrient
  AnalysisPer Serving: 307 calories, 6 grams fat, 25 mg cholesterol,
  315 mg sodium. Source: The New McCall's Cooking School Reformatted
  by: CLM, HCPM52C
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef And Bacon Over Pasta (Fgkg27a)
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           UNFORMATED
 
  Chop about 6 slices bacon and saute' until crisp. Remove. Add minced
  garlic, 1/2 chopped onion and 1/2 chopped green pepper, lightly
  saute' in the bacon grease. Stir in about 2 tablespoons flour, stir
  until smooth. Slowly stir in 1 to 1 1/2 cups beef stock. Add sage,
  salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Add leftover rare beef (bite size)
  and 1 can black eyed peas and bacon. Simmer and serve over warm pasta
  with Parmesan cheese. Good with chipped beef too. Converted by MMCONV
  vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braccioli--(My Recipe)
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Sprigs chopped parsley
  1 1/2 lb Round steak
      3    Cloves minced garlic
      1    Whole beaten egg
    1/2 c  Dry bread crumbs
      2 tb Flour
      1 tb Parmesan cheese -- grated
    1/4 c  Oil or vegetable oil
      2    Whole hard-cooked diced
           Eggs
    3/4 c  Water
      1    Onion -- small/finely
           Chopped
           Spaghetti sauce (opt)
      1 tb Dried basil
      2    Strips diced bacon
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
    1/4 ts Oregano
 
  A GOOD MEAT RECIPE TO SERVE WITH LASAGNE OR PASTA MEALS Place parsley,
  garlic, bread crumbs, cheese, onion, hard-cooked eggs, diced bacon,
  pepper, and a pinch of oregano in a bowland mix well. Pound the steak
  on both of its sides and lay it flat on a tabl Fold edges in and
  roll. Tie securely with string. Dip rolled and tied steak in beaten
  egg, then in flour. Heat oil in a skillet, saute steak on all sides
  until golden brown. Place in a roasting pan. Add water and roast in a
  350F. oven for 45 minutes. Cut into 1-1/2 inch slices and serve as
  is, or pour spaghetti sauce over the steak, if desired. Source: Mama
  D's, revised over the years.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Braciole Balsamico
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------FOR THE BEEF ROLLS--------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Top round -- VERY thin
           Sliced
    1/2 c  Fresh basil -- minced
      2    Roasted red peppers --
           Diced
      4 tb Parmesan -- fresh grated
      2 tb Parsley -- minced
           Salt and pepper
      6 sl Proscuitto -- very thin

MMMMM----------------------FOR THE MARINADE---------------------------
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Parsley -- minced
    1/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
      2 tb Pepper -- black fresh
           Ground
      2    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Minced
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           ALYCE MANTIA (KRBS41A-----
 
  Place beef slices on counter or flat surface. (Get your butcher to
  slice them; he can do it so much neater than we can!) Sprinkle with
  the red peppers and parsley. Cut proscuitto to fit each beef slice
  and place over peppers.  Sprinkle with basil leaves,
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli-Pasta Toss  Cgdr39a
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Broccoli flowerets
      4 oz Fettuccine -- broken up
      1 tb Oil -- cooking
      3 tb Parmesan cheese -- grated
      1 ts Sesame seed -- toasted
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
 
  PER SERVING: 168 cal., 6g Pro., 24g carbo., 5g fat, 3mg chol., 72mg
  sodium . In a large saucepan cook broccoli and pasta in a large
  amount of boiling water for 6-8 minutes or justuntil tender, stirring
  once or twice. Drain. Add oil to pasta mixture and toss. Add cheese,
  sesame seeds, garlic, and pepper to taste. Toss gently to coat. Serve
  immediately. BETTER HOMES AND GARDENS Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cannoli Filling
 Categories: Desserts, Italian
      Yield: 25 servings
 
      2 lb Ricotta
    1/2 c  Citron
  1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Orange peel -- candied
      4 ts Vanilla
      4 oz Chocolate -- sweet
 
  Process ricotta, powdered sugar and vanilla in food processor until
  smooth. Add citron, peel, and broken up chocolate and process with
  short bursts just until chopped. Use to fill cannoli shells,
  garnishing ends with finely chopped almonds or other nuts.
  Variations: Fluffy Riccota Filling: Fold in 1 cup heavy cream, beaten
  until Garnish ends of filled shells with chopped pistachio nuts.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts W/ Tomato & Garlic
 Categories: Poultry, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------CHICKEN BREASTS---------------------------
      2 tb Olive Oil
      3 c  Tomatoes -- Peel/ Seed
      2    Whole Boneless Breasts --
           Half
      1    Bay Leaf
      4    Cloves Garlic -- Minced
      1 ts Thyme
    1/2 c  Onions -- Finely Chopped
           Salt and Pepper
    1/2 c  Dry White Wine
           WALDINE VAN GEFFEN
           VGHC42A-----
 
  Salt and pepper chicken.  Saute in oil for 3 to 4 minutes on each
  side. Add garlic, onions, wine, tomatoes, bay leaf and thyme (if you
  don't like thyme, use rosemary or basil). Bring to a boil, reduce
  heat and simmer for 15 minutes, un- til chicken is don Discard bay
  leaf before serving.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Marsala #1 (Bgmb90b)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Chicken; cutlets --
           Skinless
      3 tb Olive oil
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
           Salt & pepper
    1/2 c  Marsala wine
 
  In a hot no-stick pan Dust chicken cutlets w/flour and saute in oil
  until golden brown on both sides. Do it quickly and lightly. Remove
  from skillet and set aside. Add 1/2 cup dryMarsala wine to the pan
  and scrape up the brown bits that are on the bottom. Converted by
  MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Parmesan...Prego
 Categories: Main dish, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Italian style dry bread
           Crmb
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
      2    Boneless chicken breasts
      1    Eggs -- slightly beaten
    1/4 c  Salad oil
 15 1/2 oz Prego
      1 c  Mozzarella cheese --
           Shredded
 
  DIRECTIONS --  COMBINE BREAD CRUMBS AND CHEESE. FLATTEN CHICKEN
  BREASTS WITH FLAT   SIDE OF KNIFE TO 1/2" THICKNES. DIP IN EGG THEN
  IN BREAD CRUMB MIXTURE. IN SKILLET, BROWN CHICKEN IN OIL, DRAIN IN
  ABSORBENT TOWELS. PLACE IN2 QUART SHALLOW BAKING DISH (12X8X2) ; TOP
  WITH SAUCE, SPRINKLE WITH CHEESE
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Tetrazzini (Fdgn81a)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      7 oz Uncooked spaghetti
      1 tb Fresh parsley -- chopped
      8 oz Fresh mushrooms -- sliced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      3 tb Flour
      1 ds Pepper
      2 c  Chicken broth
      3 c  Chicken; cooked -- cubed
    3/4 c  Half and Half
    3/4 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
      3 tb Dry sherry -- if desired
           Fresh parsley -- for
           Garnish
 
  Cook spaghetti to desired doneness as directed on package. Drain;
  rinse with hot water. Keep warm. Heat oven to 350F. In dutch oven or
  large saucepan over medium heat, saute mushrooms in margarine until
  tender. Reduce heat. Stir in flour. Cook 1 minute until smooth and
  bubbly, stirring constantly. Gradually stir in chicken broth. Cook
  over medium heat until mixture boils and slightly thickens, stirring
  constantly. Remove from heat. Stir in half and half, sherry, parsley,
  salt, nutmeg and pepper. Add chicken and cooked spaghetti; toss with
  sauce. Place in ungreased 13x9 baking dish; sprinkle with parmesan
  cheese. Bake at 350F for 30 to 35 minutes or until thoroughly heated.
  Wednesday June the 9th at 04:47 pm FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD
  SOFTWARE TIME: 06/09 5:01 PM TO: IRWIN SOLOMON (JJGF65A) FROM: IRWIN
  SOLOMON (JJGF65A) SUBJECT: R-MM ITALIAN RECIP.
  
  <pro-util menu> FI  Unexpected end of recipe Converted by MMCONV
  vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Costolette Di Vitello Al Cartoccio (Fsts86a)
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 lb Mushrooms -- thinly sliced
           To taste
      2 c  Tomatoes; peeled -- diced
      4    Loin veal chops -- 1" thick
    1/2 c  Prosciutto ham -- julienne
           Cut
      4 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Parsley -- minced
           Salt to taste
 
  Melt butter in saucepan; saute mushrooms for 3 minutes. Add tomatoes,
  ham, wine salt and pepper to taste and bring to a boil, lower heat
  and cook for 5 minutes. Season chops with salt and pepper to taste.
  Heat 2 T. olive oil in skillet; brown chops on bot Converted by
  MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crockpot Chicken & Sausage
 Categories: Crockpot, Italian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           Meats
 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method Recipe By
  :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Diabetic Ground Beef Pizza
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -
      1 lb Lean ground beef
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Canned tomatoes -- well
           Drain
      2 tb Parsley -- chopped
      2 tb Onion -- finely chopped
    1/2 c  Low-fat process American
  2 1/2 ts Italian seasoning
    1/4 ts Allspice
           Cheese -- shredded
           NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-----
 
  1.  Combine ground beef, salt and pepper. 2. Pat meat into 9-inch
  nonstick pie pan. 3. Spread tomatoes over meat. 4. Combine remaining
  ingredients; sprinkle over tomato-meat mixture. 5. Bake at 350
  degrees for 20 minutes. 6.  Cut into 6 equal wedges to se 6 servings
  Each serving: 1 wedge Each serving may be exchanged for: 2 Medium-fat
  Meat Source: Cookbook for Diabetics and their families
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Cacciatore
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           PAT MULDROW
      1 cn Tomatoes
    1/2 c  Parsley -- minced
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Salt
     10 ml Garlic -- minced
    1/4 ts Pepper
           (DCGM11B)
 
  To every 3 lbs chicken:  cook in enough oil to brown. Brown chicken
  in oil and remove from pan; slice an onion and cook in drippings
  until soft. Then add the above listed ingredients to the pan. Put
  chicken back in pan and let it simmer for about 40 min uncovered,
  turning the chicken once in a while.
  
  Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; October, 1993 Posted November, 1991
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Macaroni Salad I.E.S.Jjgf65a
 Categories: Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 5 servings
 
           -
      1 c  HELLMAN'S REAL MAYO.(Best
           Ma
           PEPPER
      8 oz COOKED ELBOW MACARONI --
           DRAINE
      1 ts SUGAR
      2 tb VINEGAR
      1 ts SALT
      1 c  SLICED CELERY
    1/4 c  CHOPPED ONION
      1 tb PREPARED MUSTARD
    1/4 ts PEPPER
      1 c  CHOPPED GREEN OR RED
           PHILLY INQUIRER-----
 
  IN A LARGE BOWL,STIR MAYONNAISE,VINEGAR,MUSTARD,SUGAR,SALT,AND PEPPER
  UNTIL SMOOTH.ADD MACARONI,CELERY,GREEN PEPPER,AND ONION;TOSS TO COAT
  WELL.COVER.REFRIGERATE AT LEAST TWO HOURS TO BLEND FLAVORS.MAKES FIVE
  CUPS
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettuccine Alla Panna     (Pkfr67a)
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  FRESH grated parmesan
           Cheese
    1/2 c  Cream
 
  Put butter and cream in wide shallow serving bowl in warm (200 degree)
  oven.  When butter has melted stir in 2/3 of the cheese. When pasta
  is al dente, toss with sauce, sprinkle with remaining cheese.
  Delicious. FROM: MONICA DEBIASE   (PKFR67A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettuccine W/Cream, Basil, And Romano  Sss
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Sherilyn Schamber
    2/3 c  Fresh basil -- chpd
        sl Bacon
      1 lb Fettuccine
           Green onions -- chpd
           Salt and pepper
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Additional cheese
      1 c  Romano or parmesan --
           Grated
 
  Cook bacon, remove and crumble.  Add green onions to skillet, and stir
  until softened, about 1 min.  Add cream and simmer until beginning to
  thicken.  Mix in 1 cup cheese and basil. Meanwhile, cook fettuccine;
  drain. Add sauce and stir to coat.  Season with salt and pepper. Pass
  additional cheese when serving. Source: Bon Appetit Converted by
  MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettucine Pie
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese -- divided
           Onion -- chopped
      3    Eggs
     16 oz Crushed tomatoes
      2 tb Butter -- melted
      1 ts Oregano leaves -- crumbled
           Parsley -- chopped
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 c  Mozzarella cheese --
           Shredded
      4 oz Fettucini
 
  Brown meat and onion in skillet. Stir in tomatoes, oregano, salt and
  pepper. Bring to boil. Simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, 20
  minutes. Remove from heat and add mozzarella and 1/4c parmesan. Let
  stand 9-12 minutes. Meanwhile, cook fettucine. Bea Let stand 5
  minutes. Turn out on round platter.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettucine Pie Kjcd19b
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese -- divided
           Onion -- chpd
           Eggs
     16 oz Can crushed tomatoes
      2 tb Butter -- melted
      1 ts Dried oregano leaves --
           Crumble
           Parsley -- chpd
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 c  Mozzarella cheese --
           Shredded
      4 oz Fettucini -- about 2 3/4c
 
  Brown meat and onion in skillet.  Stir in tomatoes, oregano, salt and
  pepper.  Bring to boil.  Simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, 20
  mins. Remove from heat and add mozzarella and 1/4c parmesan. Let
  stand 9-12 mins. Meanwhile, cook fettucine.  Beat egggs, stir in
  remaining parmesan, butter, parsley and garlic powder. Stir into hot
  noodles. Spoon onto tomato mixture.  Cover. Cook over low heat, 15
  mins oruntilset. Let stand 5 mins. Turn out on round platter.
  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Focaccia (Italian Flatbread) Abm
 Categories: Breadmaker, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour -- bread
      1 tb Dried rosemary leaves
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 tb Yeast
      3 tb Oil -- olive
 
  (60 min left), (H)elp, More?       1 c  Water; hot Oil, olive  Mix 1
  1/2 cups of the flour, the rosemary, salt, and yeast in a large bowl
  thoroughly. Add 3 tablespoons oil and thehot water. Beat on low speed
  30 seconds, scraping bowl constantly.  Beat on Knead 5 to 8 minutes
  or until smooth and elastic.  Place in greased bowl; turn greased
  side up. Cover and let rise in warm place about 1 hour or until
  double. (Dough is ready if indentation remains when touched.) Punch
  down dough. Brush 12-inch pizza pa (60 min left), (H)elp, More? Heat
  oven to 400 degrees.  Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until golden brown.
  Brush with additional oil.  Serve warm.
  
  *If using quick-acting yeast, omit first rise.  After kneading, cover
  dough and let rest 10 minutes.  Press dough in pan and continue as
  directed.
  
  High altitude directions (3500 to 6500 feet): Rising times may be
  slightly shorter.
  
  Food & Wine RT [*] Category 2,  Topic 29 Message 173       Mon Nov
  09, 1992 M.GOLDSTEI15 [D.O.M.]        at 21:10 EST  (60 min left),
  (H)elp, More? From the recipe files of Sylvia Steiger, GEnie
  THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253, GT Cookbook echo moderator a
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Francese
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 lb Chicken -- veal or fish
           -cutlets or fillets
      1 c  Water
      2    Pks bouillion
      2 lg Eggs -- beaten
           Juice of 1 lemon (fresh)
    3/4 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Fresh chopped parsley
 
  Slice cutlets thin and pound to tenderize (except for fish, just slice
  thin). Melt butter in iol and bring to med heat. Dip cutlets in
  flour, then egg and sautee on both sides until golden. Remove from
  pan and place on warm serving platter and keep warm. Converted by
  MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frutta Al Forno Con Amaretti (Baked Fruit)
 Categories: Italian, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4    Peaches; freestone -- ripe
      1 tb Amaretto liqueur
      1 tb Butter
      1    Egg yolk
    1/4 c  Brown sugar -- packed
      8    Italian macaroons
           (Amaretti)
    1/4 c  Almonds -- finely chopped
           -crushed
 
  Cut peaches in half from stem to root end (don't peel). Twist to free
  from pit.  Place peach halves, cut side up, in a 10" well-buttered
  baking dish. Combine remaining ingredients.  Beat with a fork to
  blend well. Stuff each peach hollow with almond mixture. Bake in
  preheated 350 oven for 20 minutes, or until peaches are soft but
  still hold their shape. Serve warm. This can also be done with pears,
  apricots, nectarines or apples. All are very good.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fusilli W/Broccoli & Garlic     Susan (Pstt79c
 Categories: Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Broccoli flowerttes
      6 c  Garlic -- thinly sliced
    1/3 c  Olive oil
           Salt & pepper -- to taste
 
  Saute garlic in olive oil until JUST beginning to brown. DO NOT allow
  garlic to brown. At the FIRST sight of browning the garlic is
  finished. Any more cooking will make the garlicbitter. Add broccoli &
  toss to coat, then add this mixture to the hot, drain Season w/salt &
  pepper to taste & enjoy! SUSAN FROM: SUSAN AARONSON (PSTT79C)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Pasta (Jnwg16a)
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2    Stick butter
      1 lb Pasta, any shape -- *
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
      2    Cloves garlic
 
  * I prefer rotini or macaroni. Melt 1 tbsp of butter in small
  skillet. Add almonds and toast them. Add minced garlic and saute
  together. Cook pasta according to package directions. After draining
  pasta, pour pasta over remaining butter. Stir until butter Converted
  by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grandpa's Gravy I.E.S.Jjgf65a
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     30 oz CAN TOMATO PUREE
      1 md ONION CHOPPED
      1    WHOLE BAY LEAF
      3 lg CLOVES GARLIC -- CRUSHED
     30 oz CAN WHOLE PLUM TOMATOES
      2 c  HOPPED MUSHROOMS
           HAND SQUASHED
      1 ts SUGAR
      2 ts DRIED OREGANO
      2 lb PORK CHOPS WITH BONES
      2 ts DRIED BASIL
      1 pn RED PEPPER
      6 oz CAN TOMATOE PASTE
      1 c  DRY WHITE WINE
      1 ts GARLIC POWDER
           SALT AND PEPPER TO TASTE
 
  COMBINE ALL INGREDIENTS IN A LARGE COVERED POT.SIMMER OVER LOW HEAT
  FOR THREE HOURS FOR DESIRED THICKNESS.IF TO THICK ,THIN WITH A LITTLE
  WATER;IF TO THIN,LET THE SAUCE COOK UNCOVERED OVER VERY LOW HEAT FOR
  30 TO 45 MINUTES LONGER. SEAFOOD VERSION: OMIT PORK ADD THREE OR FOUR
  MEDIUM,FRESH CLEANED BLUE CRABS TO THE LAST HOUR OF SIMMERING.LET
  REST 30 MINUTES AND SHAKE SAUCE OF CRAB AND DISCARD THE CRAB. SERVE
  WITH FAVORITE PASTA COOKED AL DENTE,LOTS GRATED PARMESAN
  CHEESE,ITALIAN BREA
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Beef Parmesan ( Manzo Alla Parmigiano)
 Categories: Meats, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 ts Monosodium glutamate
      1    Egg -- well beaten
      2 ds Pepper
      1 md Onion -- chopped
      6 sl Mozzarella cheese
      1 ts Salt

MMMMM-------------------TOMATO-CHEESE MIXTURE------------------------
      6 oz Tomato paste
      1 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Mix thoroughly ground beef, egg, onion, salt monosodium glutamate and
  pepper. Shape meat mixture into a large square about 3/4" thick. Cut
  into 6 equal portions. Arrange portions on broiler rack. Set
  temperature control of range at broil. Place in broiler
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Pasta Primavera    (Pstt79c)
 Categories: Main dish, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Heavy cream
           Reggiano Parmesan -- grated
           Butter
           Salt black pepper to taste.
 
  Mix all the ingredients together in a saucepan until melted and
  smooth. Taste, adjust seasonings pour over hot angel hair or linguine
  that has been tossed with steamed-----> vegetables (sliced carrots,
  broccoli, cauliflower, zucchini, yellow squash (seeds removed), snap
  peas, snow peas, red bell pepper--you name the vegetable It makes a
  stunning presentation. I serve this as an appetizer in a large
  scallop shell.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Green Beans (Fdgn81a)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Frozen french sliced
      3 tb Italian style bread crumbs
           Green beans (9oz)
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
 
  Cook green beans according to package. Drain. Toss with butter.
  Sprinkle with crumbs and garlic powder and toss again. Place in
  shallow casserole, sprinkle with parmesan cheese and bake, covered,
  at 350 degrees for 20 to 30 minutes, or until cheese melts
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Meat Sauce     Jo
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Tomato puree
  1 1/2 c  Onion -- finely chopped
      1 c  Red wine
      1 c  Carrots -- grated
  3 1/2 c  Beef broth
    1/2 c  Celery -- finely chopped
           Salt -- to taste
  2 1/2 c  Mushrooms -- finely chopped
           Pepper -- to taste
      2 ts Parsley -- finely chopped
           Oregano -- to taste
      2 lb Lean ground beef/hamburger
           Garlic -- to taste
 
  Combine butter and oil in large frypan and heat.  Add onions and
  saute' for one minute.  Add carrots, celery, mushrooms and parsley;
  cook, stirring frequently for 5 min.  Crumble in ground beef and
  cook, stirring frequently until lightly browned. Sprinkle flour over
  the ground beef and stir until well blended. Stir in puree. Add wine
  gradually, stirring constantly. Add the broth and season with spices
  as desired. Simmer, stirring occasionally, for about 1 hour or until
  thickened. Serve with past
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Potatoes     (Gjdv08b)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 lb Butter -- (melted)
      1 tb Heaping parsley
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 ts Crushed red peppers
      2    Cloves -- minced garlic
    1/4 c  Parmeson cheese
      1 md Onion -- chopped
 
  3-4     ea potatoes; (cut in quarters) In casserole add butter, oil,
  garlic, onions and potatoes. Stir ingredients Sprinkle parsley,
  peppers, cheese and salt Bake 1 her at 350, might take longer.
  Potatoes should be crispy.  Good luck! FROM: JEANNIE BAUER
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Sausage And Tortellini Soup
 Categories: Italian, Sausage
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Sweet Italian sausage or
      1 lg Carrot -- thinly sliced
           Chorizo sausage -- casings
      1 md Green bell pepper -- diced
           Removed
    1/2 c  Dry red wine (op.)
      1 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Dried basil
      2 lg Garlic cloves -- sliced
      2 tb Dried oregano
      5 c  Beef stock or canned broth
      8    To 10 ounces purchased
      2 c  Chopped tomatoes (about 3/4
           Fresh cheese tortelli
        lb )
           Parmesan cheese -- freshly
      1 cn (8-oz) can tomato sauce
           Grated
      1 lg Zucchini -- sliced
 
  Saute Italian sausage in heavy Dutch oven over medium-high heat until
  cooked through, crumbling with back of spoon, about 10 minutes. Using
  slotted spoon, transfer sausage to large bowl.
  
  Pour off all but 1 tablespoon drippings from Dutch oven. Add onion and
  garlic to Dutch oven and saute until translucent, about 5 minutes.
  Return sausage to Dutch oven. Add stock,tomatoes, tomato sauce,
  zucchini, carrot, bell pepper, wine, basil and oregan Bring to simmer
  before continuing.) Add tortellini to soup and cook until tender,
  about 8 minutes. Season soup to taste with salt and pepper. Ladle
  soup into bowls. Sprinkle with Parmesan and serve. 6 Servings.
  
  SOURCE:  Bon Appetit, October 1993  Posted on GEnie's Food & Wine RT
  by J.APPLEBURY [AppleDebbie] on 9/27/93  MM by QBTOMM and Sue Woodward
  (S.WOODWARD/GEnie; 72772,2247/CIS; SWOODWARD/NVN)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Stuffed Zucchini With Tom.Sauce Xwcg89
 Categories: Casseroles, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Zucchini -- medium-size
      1    Egg -- beaten
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    2/3 c  Bread crumbs -- fine
    1/2 c  Onion -- minced
    2/3 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
      1    Carrot,medium-size --
           Minced
      1 ts Oregano
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
           Salt to taste
    1/2 lb Ground beef -- lean
           Pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Ham -- ground
  1 1/2 c  Tomato sauce
 
  1. Wash and dry zucchini; cut in half lengthwise and hollow out
  centers carefully, leaving shells 1/4-inch thick. Reserve pulp. 2.
  Heat olive oil in a large skillet; saute onion, carrot and garlic in
  oil until limp. 3. Coarsely chop zucchini pulp and add to sauteed
  mixture; cook a few minutes. 4. Put vegetable mixture into a bowl. 5.
  Cook beef in the same skillet until it loses its pink color. 6. Add
  ham and vegetable mixture; mix well. 7. Add egg, bread crumbs, 1
  tablespoon Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper to taste and oregano; mix
  well. 8. Stuff zucchini shells with meat-vegetable mixture, mounding
  tops. 9. Pour tomato sauce into the bottom of a large ovenproof dish;
  arrange stuffed zu oven 30 to 40 minutes, or until tender. Uncover
  during last 10 minutes of baking time to brown tops. 03/28/92 12:53 PM
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Tortellini Soup  Sss
 Categories: Soup/stew, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Sherilyn Schamber
      1 sm Green pepper -- diced
      4 cn 14 1/2 oz beef broth
      1 md Zucchini -- sliced
      7 c  Water
      1 sm Red onion -- chpd
      1 lb Sweet Italian sausage --
    1/2    "
      1 md Tomato -- diced
           Pieces
      1 tb Fresh basil -- chpd
      9 oz Box tortellini
           Salt and pepper
      9 oz Box spinach tortellini
           Parmesan -- opt
    1/2 lb Cabbage -- shredded
 
  Combine first 11 ingreds in lg pot. Season with salt and pepper.
  Bring to slow boil. Simmer until vegs are tender, about 15 mins.
  Ladle soup into bowls. Pass Parmesan if desired. Makes 5 qts,
  servings estimated. Source: Bon A Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italienne Corn Bowl
 Categories: Snacks
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Butter
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Parsley -- minced
      1 ts Italian herb seasoning
    1/2 ts Garlic salt
      2 tb Parmesan -- up to 3T
      3 tb Buttery Flavor Popcorn Oil
    1/2 c  Unpopped popcorn
 
  Melt butter in small saucepan over low heat. Add herb seasoning,
  parsley, garlic salt, and cheese. Blend well. Keep mixture warm while
  preparing popcorn. Empty popcorn into a large serving bowl. Stir
  seasoned butter mixture, pour over pepcorn, toss lightl
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Judy's Spaghetti Sauce     Sgnx25a
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     56 oz Italian peeled tomatoes
           Salt &  pepper
     16 oz Tomato sauce
    3/4 c  Red wine
     12 oz Tomato paste
      1 lb Sausage -- ( sweet and/or
           Hot
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
           Meatballs
      2 c  Garlic -- minced
      1 lb Ground beef
           Oregano -- (to taste)
      2 lg Eggs
           Rosemary -- (optional)
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
           Parsley -- (to taste)
      1 c  Italian bread crumbs
 
  Put tomatoes through food mill.  Simmer onion and garlic in oil until
  translucent.   Add cut up sausage. Cook until brown, stirring often.
  Add sieved tomatoes, sauce and paste, rinsing tomato paste cans with
  a little water to pick up any residue. Bring slowly to a soft boil.
  Add bay leaves, basil, oregano, rosemary, parsley, salt pepper and
  wine. Simmer. To make meatballs:  mix ground beef with eggs. Mixture
  should be quite wet. Add cheese and bread crumbs. Form into
  meatballs. (If you moisten your hands with water prior to rolling
  between palms, it's  much easier!) Bake at 350 F.  on cookie Drain.
  Add to sauce and heat through. Enjoy! Ron/MA FROM: RON SECOR, JR.
  (XGNX25A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb Chops With Gorgonzola (Pjxg05a)
 Categories: Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 9 servings
 
     18    Lamb chops
      8 oz Gorgonzola -- room temp. *
           -
      8 oz White wine
           Salt & pepper -- to taste
      6 oz Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      8 oz Butter -- room temp.
           SAUCE-----
 
  * Or any fine blue vein cheese of your choice. Toss lamb chops with
  salt, pepper and olive oil. Wrap exposed bones with aluminum foil so
  they do not burn. Grill to desired temperature. For sauce: Add wine
  to a sauce pot and reduce by half. Add heavy cream Whisk in cheese
  and then butter until incorporated. Salt and pepper to taste. This is
  served with Fresh Horseradish Mashed Potatoes (recipe listed under
  that title). Recipe from Chef Trey Cleveland, 411 West Italian Cafe,
  Chapel Hill, NC (HOME OF THE TARH Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lasagne
 Categories: Pasta, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -
      1 lb Lasagne noodles
      1 tb Parsley
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 ds Cinnamon
      2 lb Ricotta cheese
      1 ds Nutmeg
      2 c  Mozzarella cheese -- grated
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
      3    Eggs
      1 qt Spaghetti sauce
           PATTI - VDRJ67A-----
 
  Cook lasagne as directed. Brown meat and chill. Mix ricotta, parsley,
  nutmeg, cinnamon and eggs. Alternate in baking pan; first, layer of
  sauce. Then a layer of cooked lasagne. Spread ricotta, sprinkle with
  some of the meat and mozzarella cheese. Repeat layers until all the
  lasagne is used. Make sure top layer is lasagne. Top with remaining
  sauce and sprinkle with parmesan cheese. Bake at 375~F for 30 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linguine Alle Vongole     (Btvc62a)
 Categories: Main dish, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Hard-shell clams -- small
           In
    1/2 lb Linguine or spaghetti
           Salted water
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Onion -- finely chopped
      3 c  Garlic -- minced or pressed
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
           Salt and pepper
    1/2 c  Parsley -- chopped fresh
 
  Place clams and 1/4 cup water in a large heavy pan. Cover and simmer
  just until clams pop open (5 to 10 minutes). When cool enough to
  handle, remove clams from shells and set aside (save a few clams in
  shells for garnish, if you wish). Strain clam broth through a piece
  of dampened muslin to remove grit; re RITA TAULE (BTVC62A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linguine W/Bacon, Sun-Dried Tomatoes, Cream  S
 Categories: Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Sherilyn Schamber
      1 lb Linguine
           Bacon slices
    1/2 c  Romano or parmesan --
           Grated
           Green onions -- chpd
           Salt and pepper
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Additional cheese
    1/2 c  Sun-drd toms,oil pkd --
           Sliced
 
  Cook bacon, drain fat.  Add gr onion and stir 1 min. Add cream, and
  bring to boil.  Turn off heat and add tomatoes. Meanwhile, cook
  linguine; drain. Add sauce and 1/2 cup cheese and stir to coat.
  Season. Pass additional cheese when serving.  Source: Bon Appetit
  Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Linguine With Italian Sausage
 Categories: Italian, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -
    3/4 lb Linguine
      2 c  Tomato sauce
      2 tb Butter or liquid Butter
           Buds
           Salt to taste
      1 tb Olive Oil
           Pepper to taste
    3/4 lb Italian Sausage -- medium
      2 ts Butter or liquid Butter
           Buds
           Spicy; skin removed --
           Chop*
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
    3/4 c  Red wine
           NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-----
 
  Cook pasta as directed. Heat butter and oil in a skillet; add chopped
  onion and saute' until soft. Cook chopped Italian sausage until done;
  about 5 minutes. Add wine; tomato sauce; salt and pepper; butter and
  cook approximately 10 minutes or until thick. Converted by MMCONV
  vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lyons Spaghetti
 Categories: Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           DICK KATHRIEN BVXV78A
      1 cn #2 tomatoes Italian style
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
      1 lb Fresh mushrooms sliced or
      1 lb Ground beef lean
      1 cn Condensed mushroom
      1    Box 7 oz macaroni
           Soup
      2 md Green peppers minced
      1 lb American cheese
      1 lg Onion minced
 
  Brown meat, onions, green peppers and cooking oil. Cook macaroni. Then
  combine all the rest of ingredients and pour in 9 X 13 pan. Bake at
  350 for about 1 hour. From the cookbook ASK YOUR NEIGHBOR 1970
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroni Salad I.E.S.Jjgf65a
 Categories: Salads, Pasta
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Cooked elbow macaroni --
           Chilld
      2 tb Diced pimento
      1    Hard cooked egg -- fine
           Chopped
      1 tb Chopped scallion
    1/4 c  Plain low fat yogut
      1 ds Pepper
           PHILLY INQUIRER-----
 
  In medium mixing bowl,combine all ingredients,mixing well.Cover and
  refrigerate until flavors blend.At least 1 hour.Makes 2 servings....
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Manicotti Rita Taule  Btvc62a
 Categories: Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  All purpose flour
      2    Eggs
    2/3 c  Water
      1 tb Melted butter
    2/3 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  ~-----CREPES FOR MANICOTTI Place all ingredients in a blender and
  process until smooth. Cover batter and let stand for 1 hour or more;
  stir well before using.  Into a well-oiled 6to 7 inch crepe pan or
  other flat bottom frying pan over medium heat, put 1
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinara Sauce    (Fggt98b)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      1    (46-ounce) can tomato juice
           Or 2 teaspoons fresh
           Low sodium
    1/2    Teasp dried whole oregano
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms -- sliced
           Or 1 teaspoon fresh
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 cl Garlic -- chopped
    1/4 c  Chopped red pepper
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Dried whole basil
 
  SERVE OVER SPAGHETTI, RICE, OR NOODLES, OR AS A POTATO TOPPER Combine
  all ingredients in a large Dutch oven, simmer, uncovered for 45
  minutes. Remove bay leaf. YIELD: 3-1/2 cups (1/2 cup per serving)
  Calories 48/ Protein 16%/ Carbohydrate 79%/ Fat 5%/ Sod
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mashed Potatoes With Lemon  I.E.S.Jjgf65a
 Categories: Vegetables, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -
      6 lg Potatoes suitable for
           Fresh ground pepper to
           Taste
           Mashing
      2 tb To 4 tbs.unsalted butter
  1 1/4 c  Milk
           Grated zest of 1 large
           Lemon
  1 1/4 c  Water
           Or 2 smaller ones
           Salt to taste
           PHILLY INQUIRER-----
 
  Peel the potatoes and cut them into equal sized pieces.Put them into a
  sauce pan and cover with the milk and the water.Add a large pinch of
  salt.Bring to a boil and simmer them gently until soft. Drain all the
  excess liquid and mash carefully with a fork,then push through a
  potato ricer to make really smooth puree.Stir in the butter,the lemon
  zest and pepper to taste.Serveat once,or reheat the puree briefly
  just before serving.Makes 6 to 8 serving
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orlando's Sicilian Baked Sausage (Gscf27a)
 Categories: Main dish, Casseroles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Red bell pepper --
           Julienned
           Diced with juice
      1    Green bell pepper --
           Julienned
  1 1/2 lb Italian sausage
      2    Onions -- sliced
           Cut into 2" pieces
      2 md Potatoes -- diced in
      2 tb Dried basil
        lg Chunks
           Salt and pepper to taste.
     28 oz Canned tomatoes (3 cups)
 
  Combine all ingredients in large covered casserole and bake in a 350F
  oven for 1 1/2 hours. Do not add any water. I use the hot sausage.
  Enjoy Converted by MMCONV vers. 1.00
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orzo/Fresh Tomato Sauce  Philly.Inq. Jjgf65a
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Water
    1/2 lb Ripe tomatoes,peeled --
    1/2    "cub
      1    Salt to taste
      1    Fresh ground pepper to
           Taste
    3/4 c  Orzo
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Fresh basil,shred -- loose
           Pack
      1 ts Garlic -- finely minced
 
  Bring water to a boil in a saucepan and add salt to taste.Add orzo and
  cook,stirring briefly,10 minutes or until tender.Do not over
  cook.Drain. Meanwhile,heat oil in a sauce pan and add garlic.Cook
  stirring.Do not brown.Add tomatoes and sprinkle with salt,pepper and
  pepper flakes.Stir and bring to a boil.Add orzo and basil.Stir to
  blend,and serve.Makes 4 servings...
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pass The Pizza
 Categories: Italian, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Olive or vegetable oil
     20 ml Garlic -- minced
      1 md Eggplant -- peeled & cubed
      1 c  Spaghetti or pizza sauce
      1 lg Green pepper -- cut in
           Strips
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
      1 md Onion -- sliced
      1 pk Refrigerated pizza crust
      1 sm Zucchini -- sliced
      1 c  Mozzarella cheese --
           Shredded
 
  1. Preheat oven to 425. 2. In a 10" skillet over medium heat, in hot
  oil, cook the eggplant, pepper, onion, zucchini and garlic under
  pepper is tender-crisp, stirring occasionally.  Stir in spaghetti
  asuce and Parmesan cheese. 3. Unroll and gently strech 4. to serve:
  Carefully invert onto serving platter. Sprinkle with Mozzarella
  cheese and let stand for 5 minutes. FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD
  SOFTWARE TIME: 06/20 1:46 AM TO: RUTH BURKHARDT   (KKBG35A) FROM:
  RUTH BURKHARDT (KKBG35A) SUBJECT: R-MM PIZZA MEGA
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 2pungent Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Olive oil
      6    Cloves garlic -- chopped
      1 c  Onion -- minced
      1 c  Green pepper -- minced
      1 c  Tomatos peeled and chopped
      2    Stalks celery -- minced
      2 tb Red win vinegar
      2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Basil
      1 tb Chili powder
    1/4 c  Parsley -- chopped
      1 c  Red wine
      1 c  Beef stock
      1 c  Tomato puree
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  Saute the garlic in the oil until browned and almost crisp. Add the
  onions and cook until tender but not browned. Add green pepper,
  tomatos, celery, basil, chili powder, stock andvinegar. Cover and let
  simmer for 40 min., then run the mixture through a bl
  
  To serve this sauce can be used either hot or cold for basting or
  serving on the table. Makes 5 1/2 cups and can be stored in the
  refrigerator covered.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arkansas Bbq Sauce (2gal)
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 qt Water
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 c  Worcestershire sauce
  1 1/2 c  Yellow mustard
      1 qt Catsup
    1/2 c  Black pepper
    1/2 c  Dried red pepper flakes
      3 qt Red wine vinegar
      1 qt White wine
  1 1/2 c  Salt
 
  Bring to boil and then simmer for about 1/2 hour. do not cook or
  store in aluminum store in glass. Makes 2 gallons.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Arkansas Bbq Sauce (Small)
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      3 oz Brown sugar
      3 oz Worcestershire sauce
      3 oz Yellow mustard
    1/4 c  Catsup
    1/8 c  Black pepper
    1/8 c  Red pepper flakes
    3/4 qt Red wine vinegar
    1/4 qt White wine
      3 oz Salt
 
  Bring to boil and then simmer for about 1/2 hour. Do not cook or
  store in aluminum, store in glass.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Beef Buns
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 c  Cooked Beef Strips -- 2 X
    1/4    "
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      1 c  Ketchup
      4 ts Prepared Mustard
    1/2 c  Cider Vinegar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter Or Regular Margarine
    1/4 ts Chili Powder
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Black Pepper
      2 md Onions -- Thinly Sliced
    1/2 c  Water
      2 sl Lemon
      8    Hamburger Buns
 
  Combine all of the ingredients, except the hamburger buns, in a
  4-quart Dutch oven.  Cook over hig heat until the mixture comes to a
  boil. Reduce the heat to low and simmer for 25minutes or until the
  mixture thickens. Remove the lemon slices.  Pour into a container,
  cover and refrigerate.
  
  TO SERVE:
  
  Warm over medium heat and serve in the hamburger buns.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Spare Ribs (Without Bones)
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Mcdougall Program
           American
           Prepared Ahead Recipes
           Tofu
           Freezer
           Barbecue
 
  Amount  Measure       Ingredient -- Preparation Method Recipe By
  :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Spareribs #2
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Spareribs
           Salt
           Sugar
      3 tb Honey
  1 1/2 ts Soy sauce
  1 1/2 c  Soy sauce
      2    Cloves garlic
      5    Quarter sized slices ginger
           Crushed
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Sherry
 
  Before marinating the ribs may be rubed with salt and sugar and left
  for 1 hour.
  
  To prepare the marinade combine the crushed garlic, ginger, soy,
  sugar and sherry. Rub the marinade into the ribs and coat them well,
  put the ribs into a shallow pan, and pour theremaining marinade over
  them. Let stand for 2-4 hours at room temp. basting Remove ribs from
  marinade, drain into pan and reserve for basting later. Heat your
  oven to 375 and place the ribs on an oven rack. over a roasting pan
  with water. Roast the ribs for about 45 mion., basting often and
  turning once at about the halfway point. When you turn the ribs you
  may glaze them with the honey-soy mixture.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Steaks
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Top round steak
      4 tb Mustard -- prepared
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  1. Pound steak on both sides with a wooden mallet or the edge of a
  heavy plate. 2. Combine lemon juice and mustard and spread over both
  sides of steak. Allow to stand 4-5 hours at room temperature. 3.
  Broil steaks about 4 inches above glowing coals on barbecue grill for
  4-5 minutes on each side, or until desired degree of doneness is
  achieved. You won't taste the lemon juice or mustard as such - just a
  very good and flavorful steak.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbeque Beef Short Ribs
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Mary Wilson  BWVB02B
      1 ts Pprika
     20    Milliliters
    1/2 ts Chili powder
      3 tb Fat
      1 tb Brown sugar
      3 lb Short ribs -- cut in rib
      1 c  Beef stock *
           Chunks
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Ketchup
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      1 ts Curry powder
           Garlic -- minced
 
  Heat oven at 350~F.  Heat the 3 tablespoons fat in a heavy skillet.
  Add the minced garlic and short ribs and brown well on both sides.
  Transfer meat and dripping to a large casserole or Dutch oven.  Slice
  up the onion and to meat.  Mix all the remaining
  
  Cover very tightly and bake in oven 1-1/2 hours or until meat is very
  tender when pierced with a fork. To serve, place short ribs on a large
  platter and pour sauce over the meat. Serves 4.
  
  * Beef bouillon dissolve in a cup of boiling water.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbeque Sauce With Beer Robert
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Meats
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 ea 14-oz bottles catsup
      2 tb Black pepper
      1 ea 12-oz bottle chili suace
      1 ea 5-oz bottle steak sauce
    1/2 c  Prepared mustard
    1/2 c  Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Salt
      1 ea 12-oz bottle beer
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar -- firmly
           Packed
      2 ts Mince garlic
 
  Combine all ingredients, except garlic, in saucepan and simmer 30
  minutes over medium heat.  Add minced garlic before using.  Baste
  meat during last 15 minutes of grilling time.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Hawaiian Ham Steaks
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -
      1 c  Pineapple juice
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Onion salt
      1 ts Fresh garlic -- minced
      2 ts Soy sauce
      2    3/4"-thick smoked ham
           Steaks
           Serves 2
      8 oz Can sliced pineapple rings
           Optional
           CAROLE ROCK TSTW72B-----
 
  Combine first six ingredients and heat till boiling, then turn down
  and simmer covered for about 10 minutes. Cool, and marinate the ham
  steaks in this for an hour or so. Grill thehame slices till heated,
  and look good - remember, they are already cooked.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Rum Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Spareribs
    1/4 c  Ketchup
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 c  Dark rum
      2    Cloves garlic -- crushed
      1 c  Brown sugar -- packed
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
        ds Pepper
 
  Wrap ribs in double thickness of foil and bak for 1 1/2 hours at 350.
  Unwrap and drain drippings. Combine all ingredients and pour over
  ribs. Marinate at room temperature for 1 hour. Bake at 350 for 30
  min., basting with sauce, or grill 30 min., turning and basting.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Sauce #3
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Coffee
    1/2 c  Ketchup
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Vinegar
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Onion -- grated
 
  Mix all the ingredients in a small bowl. Brush mixture on meat with a
  pastry brush.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Sauce #4
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Beer
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      2 ts Dijon mustard
      1 ts Dry mustard
      5    Red chiles -- crushed
      3    Cloves garlic -- crushed
  1 1/2 c  Ketchup
      4 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Basil -- crushed
      2 tb Olive oil
           Ground pepper -- to taste
 
  Combine vinegar, bee, worcestershire, in saucepan over med heat add
  brn sugar & stir to dissolve, add all the rest and bring to a boil.
  Simmer 20 min.Heat uncovered just before use. If using pork, parboil
  for 10 min., then then bake till almost done, brus
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Sauce #5
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Pork drippping
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/2    Bottle
      2 tb Red pepper -- crushed
    1/4 c  Chili powder
    1/2 ga Ketchup
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 tb Pepper
      1 tb Garlic salt
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
     57    Sauce
 
  Combine all ingredients and simmer until thick. When you use this
  remember it's really a glaze not a sauce. This recipe makes about 1
  gallon. You can
   thin it out with beer beforeuse.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbq Sauce 2
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Chili powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 c  Tomato sauce
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Paprika
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes -- to
           Taste
    1/4 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 c  Ketchup
 
  Combine everything and simmer for 15 min.  Refrigerate overnight, if
  possible. Serve on side with ribs.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbqed Chile-Marinated Pork Spareribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Racks Pork spareribs
      8    Dried New Mexican red
           -chiles, seeded
    3/4 c  Hot water
    1/2 c  Ketchup
      2    Cloves garlic
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
      3 tb Brown sugar -- firm packed
      2 ts Salt
      3 tb Tequila
    1/2 c  Veg. oil
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/8 ts Allspice
 
  In a large kettle combine the spareribs with water to cover, bring the
  water to a boil and simmer the ribs skimming the froth as necessary,
  for about 50min. Drain the ribs well and pat them dry.
  
  While the ribs are simmering, in a blender puree the chiles,water,
  ketchup, garlic, vinegar, brown sugar, salt, tequila. oil, cumin and
  the allspice. In a jelly roll pan or on a tray  coat the ribs
  generously with some of the chili sauce, reserving the re Let the
  ribs stand at room temp. for 1 hour and grill them on an oiled rack
  set 5-6 over heat source for 6 min. on each side In a small saucepan
  simmer the reserved chile sauce for 3 min. and serve it with the ribs.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Back Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Pork ribs
      3 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 tb Garlic powder
      2 ts Oregano
      2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Combine all seasonings and dust all surfaces of ribs with mixture.
  Prepare medium-hot coals in covered grill, banking coals when hot.
  Grill ribs over indirect heat 1 to 1 1/2 hours, turning every 15
  minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caltex Chili Powder
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Toasted cumin seed --
           Ground
      2 tb Toasted coriander seed --
           Ground
      2 tb Paprika
      1 tb Toasted teicherry black
           Peppercorns -- ground
  2 1/4 ts Chipotle chilies -- ground
  1 1/2 ts Pequin chiles with seeds --
           Ground
    3/4 ts Dried cascabels with seeds
           Ground
    1/2 ts Ginger -- grond
      1 ts Cloves -- ground
 
  Sift all the ingredients together and store in a tightly sealed jar.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cantonese Spareribs
 Categories: Main dish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           HGSK65A
    1/3 c  Worcestershire sauce
      4 lb Pork spareribs -- cut up
      1 ts Salt
      1    Lemon
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1    Onion
      2 ds Tobasco sauce
           MSG (optional -- of course)
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Catsup
           Hot steamed rice
 
  Place ribs in shallow pan, meaty side up. Sprinkle with MSG. Slice
  lemon and onion. Place slice each of lemon and onion on each brace of
  ribs. Place in oven preheated to 450F and cook for 30 minutes.
  Combine remaining ingredients. Bring to boil and pour over ribs.
  Reduce oven to 350F and continue cooking 1 1/2 to 2 hours, basting
  every 15 minutes. If sauce gets too thick, add more water. Serve with
  steamed rice. VARIATION: Omit brown sugar and add 1 t. chili sauce.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicago Style Bbq Ribs (Oven)
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Ketchup
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  BBQ sauce
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 ts Paprika
      2 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Msg
      2 lb Country-style back ribs
 
  Bake ribs at 450 for 20 min. Pour off fat. Reduce oven to 300 and
  cook 30 min. more. Meanwhile, mix sauce and simmer over low heat for
  30 min. Drain ribs and cover with sauce. Cook another hour, basting
  every 15 min.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Barbecued Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           NORMAN FRIEDMAN
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 lb Spareribs -- in 1 pc.

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 tb Rice wine
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Hoisin sauce
      1    Clove garlic -- minced
      2 tb Chicken broth
      2 tb Honey
 
  PREPARATION: -Trim excess fat from ribs. -Place ribs in long; shallow
  pan. -Mix marinade.  Pour over ribs.  Baste thoroughly. -Marinate at
  least 3 hours at room temperature or 6 hours in refrigerator.
  Overnight is OK. Turn regularly. COOKING: -Put large shallow pan of
  water on bottom of oven. -Pre-heat oven to 375F. -As if hanging a
  hammock, suspend ribs from the uppermost rack of oven. -Roast
  undisturbed for 45 minutes. -Raise temperature to 450F. Roast 15
  minutes longer or until crisp and deep golden brown. -Cut into
  individual ribs. >>> You might want to check the ribs after the first
  45 minutes and see how well done they are. Depending on the size of
  the ribs, sometimes the extra 15 minutes isn't necessary, or not at
  450.
  
  Formatted by Elaine Radis
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dehydrator Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Onions dehydrated
    1/4 c  Sweet peppers dehyrated
    1/4 c  Parsley -- dried
    1/2 c  Honey
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Liquid Barbecue Smoke
      1 c  Ketchup
      2 tb Louisana hot sauce
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ts Mint -- dried
      1 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Vinegar
      1 c  Water
 
  Put all dried ingredients in a pot and add water. Let set a little
  while. Add the wine and the erst of the ingredients. Cover and cook
  for several hours.
  
  Recipe By     : Justin  Wilson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deviled Short Ribs
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -
    1/4 c  Onions -- finely chopped
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice --
           Strained
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      3 tb Prepared mustard
      1 ts Garlic -- finely chopped
      2 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      3 lb Lean short ribs of beef
        ea 4 to 5 inches long
           BEV CPVM71A-----
 
  Combine the onions, lemon juice, oil, mustard, garlic, salt and a
  liberal grinding of pepper in a deep bowl and mix them well. Add the
  short ribs and turn them about with a spoon until they are evenly
  coated. Then let the ribs marinate at room temperature
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dry Rub 2
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Thyme
      1 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts White pepper
    1/2 ts Curry powder
      1 ts Paprika
 
  Mix and sprinkle mixture liberally over the fat side of the ribs. Let
  stand for 1 hour.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dry Rub Masion Bbq Spice
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Paprika
      1 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Cumin
      1 ts Coriander
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Cayenne
 
  mix all ingredients together and use as desired to rub on meats before
  grilling.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eastern North Carolina Style
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Cider vinegar
      2 tb Salt
      2 ts Red pepper -- ground
      1 tb Red pepper flakes
      2 tb Brown sugar -- packed
 
  Combine all ingredients, mix well and let stand several hours before
  using. Mix with meat chopped from the cooked pig and serve extra on
  the side.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eugene's Nc Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -
      1 ga Vinegar
      2 tb Black pepper
      3 oz Texas Pete Sauce
      8 oz Brown mustard
      1 pt Honey
  1 1/4 oz Chili powder
      1 tb Red pepper
    1/2 c  -salt
      1 oz Tabasco sauce
     32 oz Bottle tomato ketchup
      1 c  Sugar
      3 ts Garlic powder
           LINDA SKEEN XFSW87D-----
 
  Combine all ingredients and mix well.  MM Format Norma Wrenn npxr56b
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Galveston Grilled Chicken
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 sm Chickens 21/2- 3 pounds cut
           Into peices
      1    Lemon -- cut in half
      6    Cloves garlic -- crushed
      1 tb Cayenne
      2 tb Paprika
           Veg oil
           Salt -- to taste
 
  Rub the Chicken pieces with the lemon halves. In a small bowl, mash
  the garlic with the cayenne and paprika to form a paste. Rub over the
  chicken pieces. Place the pieces skin side up on a rack in a shallow
  pan. Let stand in a cool place (do not refrigera Preheat the grill.
  If using presoaked wood chips or chunks (chips for gas), or other
  flavorings, spinkle over the hot coals or lava rocks. Brush the grill
  lightly with oil.
  
  Place the dark meat of the chicken on the grill and cover-cook with
  the vents open over hot or high heat, turning once for 15 min. Add
  the white meat to the grill and continue to cover-cook, turning once,
  until both meats are crisp and the juices run yell with a fork, 15 -
  20 min. longer . Sprinkle with salt and pepper before serving.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Steak Sandwiches
 Categories: Snacks, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Green bell peppers --
           Seeded
           Cut into strips
      2    Red bell peppers -- seeded
           Cut
           Into strips
      1    Very large onion -- chopped
           In small pieces
      6    Cloves garlic -- minced
      1    Flank steak about 2-1/2 lb
      8    Crusty sandwich rolls
           (about
      6    " long)
           Butter
           CAROLE ROCK TSTW72B-----
 
  Saute the peppers, onion,garlic and 2 tablespoons of the butter over
  low heat till browned, about 20-30 minutes. Grill the flank steak
  about 7 minutes per side for rare. Cut rollsin half, lengthwise, and
  spread with butter, grill till toasted. On a board,
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golden Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Prepared mustard
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 ts Rosemary leaves
 
  Mix all ingredients. Baste meat during the last half of cooking
  period. Just before serving, top meat with remaining sauce.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Great Aunt Marty's Bbq Sauce.
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           WARINNER
      1 md Onion
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 cn Tomato sauce
      3 tb Worcestershire
    1/2 ts Mustard
    1/2 c  Celery -- chopped
    1/8 ts Red pepper
      2 tb Butter
      4 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Water -- (I use less)
      1 ts Salt
           (TPBD20B)
 
  Chop onion and brown in butter.  Combine wint vinegar, b.sugar, lemon
  juice, tomato sauce worc. sauce, water, celery, salt and red pepper.
  
  Simmer for 1/2 hour For ribs: place ribs in baking pan bake in oven
  at 375 for an hour. Start brushing on sauce and trning ribs, cooking
  until tender, another hour or so.
  
  Posted on PRODIGY, 2/92; formatted by Elaine Radis; PRODIGY, BGMB90B;
  GEnie, E.RADIS
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grill Chicken With Havana Sauce    Vfxr40b
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     28 oz Plum tomatoes -- drained
           And
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  White wine
      2 ts Celentro -- minced
      1 tb White vinegar
      8 ea Chicken ; breasts -- skin
           Re
      3 ea Green onions  -- chopped
           Ground pepper
      4 c  Garlic -- minced
 
  In lg. bowl combine all the ingredents for the sauce. Mix well, cover
  and refrigerate over night. Heat an outside grill and let the sauce>
  come to room temp. Sprinkel the chicken with lime juice and with salt
  and pepper, as you like. Place on grilland cook for about 6 min per
  side or until brown. brush the sauce on the chicken throughout the
  grilling and top each with more sauce when serving. FROM: KAT
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Chicken Breast With Garlic Lemon Marinade
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Chicken breast halves
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
      2 tb Lemon juice -- strained
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Ground cumin -- optional
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Place chicken in shallow dish. Combine all ingredients, pour over both
  sides of chicken. Cover and refrigderate, fish up to 2 hours and
  chicken overnight if you wish. Grill covered or broil about 10 min.
  each side until done, serve immediately.
  
  Variation:
  
  Garlic-herb marinade for chicken or fish: Prepare marinade as above,
  omitting cumin and using only 1/2 teaspoon black pepper. Add 1
  teaspoon dried leaf thyme or 1 teaspoon oregano and 1/2 teaspoon
  minced fresh rosemary.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Garlic Chicked
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Chicken cut into serving
           Pieces
      2    Heads garlic
    1/2    Bottle
      3    Sprigs thyme
      1 c  Olive oil
           Pepper -- to taste
           Red wine
 
  Peel 10 cloves of garlic and chop them roughly. Marinate the chicken
  in red wine with the garlic and the thyme for 2-4 hours in the
  refrigerator. Spread the remaining cloves of garlic with skins on in
  a small baking dish in one layer and cover with 1 cup of olive oil.
  Sprinkle with salt and pepper and bake for 1 1/2 hoursoruntil garlic
  is completly soft. Puree the garlic through a food mill when it is
  done . discard the skins and reserve the puree. When BBQ is ready,
  remove the chicken from the marinade, pat the peices dry and salt and
  pepper them . Cook the chicken on the grillslowly for about 35 min.,
  turning frequently. Spread the garlic puree over the chicken and heat
  it in a 375 oven for 5 min
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    11 ounce
      1 lb Plain yogurt
      1    Clove garlic -- to taste
      1    Inch ginger root -- peeled
      4    Whole serrano chiles,
           Stemmed and seeded
    1/2 bn Cilantro
      1 tb Ground cumin
           Red food coloring
      3 lb Lamb ribs
           Oil
           Jar tandoori paste
 
  Combine tandori paste, yogurt, garlic, ginger root chiles, cilantro
  and cumin in a blender and blend until pureed. Add a few drops red
  food color ( enough to make bright red). Pierce rib meat with fork.
  Coat with marinade, cover and refrigerate overnight.
  
  Drain ribs from marinadeand place meaty side on grill rack about 4
  inches from heat. grill up to 10 min. brushing with oil as ribs cook.
  Turn ribs and cook 5 min. more. Note: For spicier taste, patak's
  bottled curry paste can be added to marinade.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jamaican Ribs Or Chicken
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Ribs or 1 chicken cut up
    3/4 c  Onions -- chopped
      4 lg Clove
           Peppers SEE DIRECTIONS
      2 tb Allspice
      1 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Salad oil
      1 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Salt
     12    Bay leaf soaked in hot water
      1    Hour
           Garlic -- minced
 
  PEPPERS: You can control the heat with the type of peppers you use.
  Between the marinade and the cooking, a lot of the heat will be lost,
  so dont be afraid to throw a couple of whatever hot peppers you have
  on hand. I use 2 large cayennes, 2-4 chilies, an The preperation:
  combine everything except the bay leafs and the meat in a large zip
  lock bag. Add meat and thouroughly mix. Let marinate in the fridge at
  least 2 hours preferably until the next day. Fire up the bbq. Remove
  meat fromthe bag wiuth as much as the marinade as possible still
  clinging to it. Place half of the bay leafs on the meat. Dump the
  remaining marinade or use it as insect repellant. Cook very slowly
  over medium heat turning often. I After 1/2 hour remove the bay leaf,
  turn meat, place the remaining bay leaves on the meat and cook till
  done (About 1/2-3/4 hours more depending on the heat). Eat. Break out
  the beer. You'll need it.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Korean-Style Grilled Beef Short Ribs And Scallions
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    2" thick
      5    Cloves garlic -- minced
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      3 tb Oriental sesame oil
      2 ts Fresh ginger root -- minced
      3 tb Sugar
      2 ts White vinegar
      2 ts Sesame seed
      1 ts Pepper
     18    Scallion -- trimmed
           Beef short ribs
 
  Cut through the meaty side of each short rib to the bone at 1/2 inch
  intervals, leaving the meat attached to the bone. In a bowl whisk
  together well the garlic, soy sauce, oil, ginger root, sugar,
  vinegar,sesame seeds, pepper and coat each thoroughly with
  
  Grill the ribs, and the marinade discard, meaty side down on a oiled
  rack set 4-5 inches over glowing coals for 8 min., turn them and
  grill them for 6 min. more for medium-rare. Grill the scallions for 4
  min. or until they are just brown.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lexington - Piedmont Style Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Ketchup
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Combine all ingredients in saucepan. Bring to boil, ten simmer and
  stir until sugar is dissolved. Cool and serve on meat. 1 pint.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Beef Short Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  3 3/4 lb Beef short ribs cut in 1/2
           Inch slices
           Salt, pepper
    1/8 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Crushed red pepper
    1/4 c  Hoisin sauce
      3 tb Plum sauce
      2 tb Oyster sauce
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Sesame oil
      1 tb Honey
      1 tb Chili paste
      1 tb Pureed garlic
      1 tb Ginger -- grated
      1 bn Cilantro -- roughly chopped
      1 bn Green onions
 
  Season ribs to tastewith salt and pepper. Place on rack in roasting
  pan and bake at 350 for 1 hour.
  
  Combine water, lemon juice and crushed hot pepper inj a small bowl.
  Brush over top side of ribs and bake for an additional 10 min. Turn,
  brush again and bake 10 min. longer. let cool.
  
  Combine hoisin, plum, oyster, soy sauces with peanut oil, sesame oil
  chili paste, garlic, ginger, cilantro and green onions in a large
  bowl. Add roasted ribs and toss to coat. Cover with plastic wrap and
  refrigerate at least 4 hours or upto 24 hours.
  
  Grill or place under broiler 2 min. per side and serve immediately
  with spicy cold soba noodles and chopped tofu with parsly if desired.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Flank Steak     (Nxdm05b)
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Consomme -- or
    1/2 c  Green onions -- sliced
      1 c  Beef bouillon
      1 c  Garlic -- minced
      1 c  Red wine
      2 tb Lime juice
    2/3 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Brown sugar
 
  Score steak on both sides in 1-1/2" squares. Marinate in other stuff
  8 hrs. in refrigerator. Grill to desired degree of doneness. Slice
  across grain into thin slices.  -->        Katie in Colorado FROM:
  KATIE KINGSTON (NXDM05B)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Memphis Style Bbq Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Baby back ribs
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Pepper -- coarsely crushed
           Apple juice for basting
      1 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 c  Onion -- chopped
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
    1/4 c  Mustard
    1/2 c  Brown sugar -- packed
    1/2 ts Louisiana hot sauce
      2 c  Ketchup
      2    Lemons -- thinly sliced
 
  Trim as much fat as possible from ribs. On bone side, work knife tip
  beneath membrane that covers bone until finger can be work under rack
  memebrane, loosening  enough to get firmgrip (try papper towel to hold
  membrane). Then peel membrane off rack. With Sprinkle ribs on both
  sides with even, light coat of salt and pepper. Place ribs, bone side
  down, on grill. Grill over low fire for 1 1/2 hours, turning every
  15-20 min. Baste with apple juice at every turn during the first half
  of cooking period, either by brushing on or simply sparying apple
  juice from sray bottle. If smo Combine vinegar, onion, garlic,
  mustard, sugar and hot sauce in blender and blend till smooth. Place
  in saucepan and add ketchup. Simmer 20min. Add lemon slices. Stir
  occasionally to keep from sticking. Use sauce as frequent baste for
  last half of cooking period. Becareful not to burn ribs (sugar has
  tendancy to burn. Serve remaining sauce on side.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Missouri Style Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cumin -- ground
      2 tb Pepper
      2 tb Chili powder
      4 tb Paprika
      2    Full
           Basting Sauce

MMMMM--------------------***BASTING SAUCE***-------------------------
  1 3/4 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Hot pepper sauce
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Fresh ground pepper
           Pork racks
 
  Combine salt, sugar, cumin, pepper, chili and paprika tomake bbq rub.
  Rub thoroughly with mixture. Place ribs on baking sheets and cook in
  180 oven 3 hours. Do not turn, slow cooking infuses spices. Remove
  from oven. (Ribs may be covered and refrigerated up to 2 day before
  grilling.)
  
  Use very low charcoal fire with rack set as high as possible. Grill
  ribs 5 to 30 min. per side depending on heat and temperature of ribs.
  Ribs should have light outer crust and beheated throughout. (longer
  cooking produces better ribs) If you prefer juicy ribs, coat with
  basting sauce just before removing from grill. Otherwise serve dry
  with sauce on the side. Remove from grill cut into serving size and
  serve. Basting sauce : mix all ingredients in a bowl. Recipe is
  easily halved or doubled. keep 2:1 proportion of sauce to rud.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Morgans Ribs Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Catsup
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Honey
      1 tb Prepared mustard
      2 ts Kitchen bouquet
      1 ts Tabasco sauce
        ds Garlic powder
    3/4 c  Molasses -- or more
      3 tb Brown sugar -- to taste
 
  Recipe By     : Morgan Keffer
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: N.C. Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Vinegar
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Ketchup
  2 1/2 tb Chili powder
      1 tb Pepper
  1 1/2 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Bring vinegar and water just to simmer. Add other ingredients and stir
  well. Bottle and refrigerate. Shake well before using.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: No Fail Bbq Brisket
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Beef brisket -- non rolled
           Pepper
           Adolph's regular meat
  1 1/2 ts Liquid Hickory Smoke
           Tenderizer
      2 ts Worchestershire sauce
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Water
    3/4    Garlic
      8 oz BBQ Sauce
 
  Trim off all fat from 3 lbs non-rolled beef brisket. Sprinkle
  liberally with Adolph's Regular Meat Tenderizer.  Add 1-1/2 tsp.
  salt, or 3/4 garlic and 3/4 regular or fresh garlic, pepper to
  personal satisfaction, 1 1/2 tsp. Liquid Hickory Smoke (Colgin).
  
  Cover top of brisket with onion rings.  Sprinkle with celery seeds.
  Wraptightly with foil and refrigerate approx. 12 hours. Remove from
  refrigerator, open foil and add 2 tsp. Worchestershire Sauce and 1/2
  cup water.
  
  Cover tightly with foil and place in heavy ovenware. Bake in 325 oven
  for 2 1/2 hours.  Remove from oven and open foil.  Add 8 oz open pit
  regualr BBQ sauce. Cover tightly with foil and return to 325~ F oven
  for 1-1/2 hours. Remove from oven and let stand 1/2 hour. Slice
  across grain. Spoon sauce over meat.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange-Soy Marinade For Chicken Or Veal
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Oil
      1 tb Honey
      1 ts Grated orange zest
    1/2 ts Grated lemon zest
      1 md Shallot -- minced
      1 ts Ginger
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
        ds Black pepper
      4    Chicken breast halves with
           Bone,sklin
 
  Mix together ingredients and add chicken, cover and refrigerate. Turn
  regularly.
  
  Grill meat as desired. Marinade can be reserved, brought to a boil in
  small saucepan and  serve as light sauce for grilled meat. makes
  about 1/3 cup, enough for 4 servings.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Bbq Ribs
 Categories: Main dish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------RIBS---------------------------------
      3 lb Pork spareribs

MMMMM------------------------FOR MARINADE-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Triple Sec
    1/2 tb Garlic -- minced
    1/2 c  Teriyaki sauce
           Minced
    1/4 c  Orange juice -- (freshly
           Black pepper to taste
           Squeezed is best)
      1 tb Ginger; peeled -- chopped
      2 ts Sesame oil
      1 tb Orange zest -- freshly
           Grated
      2 tb Cilantro or parsley --
           Chopped
 
  1. Combine marinade ingredients. Place spareribs in a shallow dish
  and pour marinade over top. Place in the refrigerator and let soak 6
  hours or overnight, turn- ing occasionally. 2. Preheat oven to 350.
  Place ribs with marinade in oven for 40 minutes, basting frequently.
  Meanwhile, prepare coals for grilling. 3. Remove ribs from oven and
  place on grill, 3 to 4 inches above hot coals. Grill for l5 or 20
  minutes, turning and basting, until ribs are cooked through. Serve
  hot.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Phoenix Brand Chamionship Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2    Onion -- minced
    3/4 c  Whiskey
    1/3 c  Vinegar
    1/2 c  Brown sugar -- packed
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Taomato paste
    1/3 ts Hot sauce -- to taste
      4    Cloves garlic -- minced
      2 c  Ketchup
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
    3/4 c  Molasses
    1/2 tb Salt
      2 tb Liquid Barbecue Smoke -- to
           Taste
 
  Combine onion, garllic and whiskey in a 3-quart saucepan. Saute until
  onion and garlic are tranlucent, about 10 min. Remove from heat and
  light mixture, flame for 20 seconds. Add all remaining ingredients.
  Bring to boil, then turn down mixture to a medium Makes 4 cups. This
  sauce get better with age so make it a day or two before use. Keep
  refigerated
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pit-Style Pork Roast Robert
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 ea 5-lb pork shoulder roast
      2 tb Hot chili peppers --
           Chopped
      1 ea Hickory chips
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 c  Cider vinegar
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 c  Prepared mustard
      1 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 ts Chili powder
 
  At least one hour before grilling, soak wood chips in enough water to
  cover. Drain wood chips. Prepare mustard sauce as directed below.
  
  In covered grill, arranged preheated coals around drip pan; test for
  low heat above pan. Sprinkle 4 cups of the wood chips over coals.
  Insert a meat thermometer into thickest part of meat, without
  touching fat or bone.
  
  On grill rack, place meat over pan but not over coals. Grill,
  covered, 3 hours or until well-done or 170 degrees F. (allow 35 to 40
  minutes per pound). Adjust vents and add more charcoal and wood chips
  as necessary. Brush often with sauce during the last hour.
  
  Prepare sauce by combining all ingredients in 1-quart saucepan.  Over
  high heat, heat to boiling.  Reduce heat to low; simmer, uncovered, 5
  minutes, stirring often.  Let stand atleast 1 hour before serving.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plantation Hot Sauce
 Categories: Meats, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Molasses
    1/2 c  Prepared mustard
    1/2 c  Viniger or lemon juice
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
      2 ts Tabasco sauce
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic powder opp.
 
  Blend molasses and prepared mustard; stir in remaining ingredients.
  Heat to boiling. Use for basting ribs or chicken.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pork And Bbq Sauce On Bun
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Cook pork -- thinly sliced
  1 1/2 c  Bbq sauce
      4 lg Hamburger buns -- buttered
           ***BBQ Sauce***
      1 md Onion -- sliced crosswise
      1    Clove garllic -- minced
      2 tb Butter
    3/4 c  Ketchup
    1/2 c  Dry white wine or sherry
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Mustard
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Stir sliced pork into bbq sauce. Cook over low heat until pork is hot.
  Spoon pork with bbq sauce into hamburger buns. Garnish with dill
  pickles and coleslaw.
  
  BBQ sauce. Saute onion and garlic in butter in heavy saucepan for 3-4
  min or until onion is soft, stirring constantly. Add remaining
  ingredients and heat to boiling. Simmer 5 min.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pungent Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Olive oil
      6    Cloves garlic -- chopped
      1 c  Onion -- minced
      1 c  Green pepper -- minced
      1 c  Tomatos  peeled -- chopped
      2    Stalks celery -- minced
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Basil
      1 tb Chili powder
    1/4 c  Parsley -- chopped
      1 c  Red wine
      1 c  Beef stock
      1 c  Tomato puree
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  Saute the garlic in the oil until browned and almost crisp. Add the
  onions and cook until tender but not browned. Add green
  pepper,tomatoes, celery, basil, chili powder, stock andvinegar. Cover
  and simmer for 40 min. then run the mixture through a blender
  
  To serve: This sauce can be used either hot or cold for basting or
  served on the table. makes 5 1/2 cups.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rotisserie Barbecued Leg Of Pork
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      1    Leg of pork -- 9-11#
      1 ts Mustard -- dry
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Cloves -- ground
 
  1. Insert rotisserie rod through center of meat, place on rotisserie,
  and cook over coals that have burned down to red and glowing ash. If
  using a meat thermometer, angling it so tip is in center of meat but
  but not resting in fat or on rod, and roast to 2. Combine remaining
  ingredients and brush on roast frequently for last 30 minutes of
  cooking.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Chicken Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Corn oil
  1 1/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Onion -- chopped fine
      2    Cloves garlic clove --
           Crushed/chopped
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
  1 1/2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
        ds Cayenne -- to taste
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Tabasco sauce
      1 tb Corn starch and water
        ds Liquid  Smoke opp.
 
  Combine all ingredients except corn starch, simmer 30 min.To thicken
  add slurry of corn starch and water, let cool. Marinate chicken 1hour
  and baste while bbqing. Serve chicken with sour cream.
  
  Recipe By     : Morgan Keffer
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Short Beef Ribs With Pioneer Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Beef short ribs
  1 1/2 c  Tomato puree
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Sherry
      1 ts Dry mustard
      3    Jalapeno -- seeded and
           Chopped
      2    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
    1/2 c  Onion -- finely chopped
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/4 c  Honey
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
      3 tb Water
 
  Season beef short ribs with salt and pepper and bake at 350 for 30
  min. Pour off any accumulated fat, set ribs aside to cool. Combine all
  ingredients except the cornstarch and water in a saucepan and bring to
  boil. Dissolve cornstarch in the water and stir into sauce. Cook and
  stir until mixture boils and is thick. Cook for 2 min. Place ribs on
  medium-low heated grill and cook for about 20 min. and then turning
  to cook 20 min. on other side. Begin basting with sauce and cook,
  basting frequently for 15 min. each side. For oven cooking
  : Dip cooled ribs into sauce and place in a baking pan. Pour about 1
  cup of the sauce over the ribs. Place in preheated 325 oven and bake
  1 hour or until ribs are tender.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Bbq Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Vinegar
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2 tb Shortening
    1/2 c  Butter
      3 tb Pepper
      2 tb Red pepper
  1 1/2 tb Salt
      8    Halves
           Chicken breast
 
  Combine all ingredients except chicken in saucepan, bring to boil and
  cook until shortening and butter melt. Remove from heat.
  
  Cover coals with soaked wood chips (Hickory or mesquite).
  
  Coat chicken wioth sauce and grill chicken over medium coals or heat
  45-55 min or until done, turning and basting every 10 min.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Spareribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Paprika (Hungarian)
      1 tb Season salt
      1 ts Season salt
      1 tb Pepper
      1 ts Dry mustard
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Celery seed
      3 lb Spareribs
    1/2 c  White wine vinegar
 
  Combine first 9 ingredients in a small bowl, and set aside. cut ribs
  into serving size pieces. Pour Vinegar into a spray bottle, and mist
  the ribs. Coat ribs with seasoning mixture. Grill about 5 inches
  from medium coals for 1 hour, misting with vinegar
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Texas Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Ketchup
    1/4 c  Lime juice
      1 ts Veg oil
  1 1/2 c  Onion -- chopped
      2    Cloves garlic -- fine chop
     12 oz Beer
    1/2 c  Brown sugar -- firm packed
      2 ts Red chiles -- to taste
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2    Jalapeno -- seeded and
           Chopped
     12 oz Tomato paste
 
  Heat all ingredients to boiling in a 2 quart pan, reduce heat to low.
  cover and simmer 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Makes 5 cups sauce.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiedis From Endicott
 Categories: Ethnic, Meats
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      6 lb Leg of lamb; boned --
           Trimmed
           Cut into 3/4" cubes (about
  4 1/2    Pounds)

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Oregano
      2 ts Whole thyme
    1/4 c  Parsley flakes
    1/4 tb Garlic -- minced
      1 tb Onion -- minced
      1 tb Unseasoned meat tenderizer
      1 tb Accent
      4 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 c  Vegetable oil

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      2 tb Oregano
      1 tb Garlic -- minced
      1 tb Onion -- minced
    1/4 c  Rosemary leaves -- chopped
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/3 c  Wine vinegar
     20 sl Italian bread
     20    Water-soaked baboo skewers
 
  Marinate lamb in refrigerator at least overnight (may be left for 2
  days); mix occasionally, insuring lamb is well coated. Mix sauce in a
  jar and shake well every day until lamb is cooked. Strain sauce into
  a shaker; put about 5 cubes of lamb on each skew
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tangy Sweet Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lg Onion -- chopped
      6 tb Butter
      6 tb Vinegar
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      6 tb Brown sugar
      6 ts Mustard
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      3 ts Chili powder
      3 c  Ketchup
  1 1/2 c  Water
           Salt -- to taste
           Tabasco sauce -- to taste
           Cayenne -- to taste
 
  Chop onions. Saute in butter until lightly colored Add all other
  ingredients and simmer 30 min. Makes about 7 cups.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Teriaki Grilled Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           ELAINE RADIS BGMB90B
      2 lg Chicken breasts -- boneless
           And skinless -- cut in half

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Teriaki sauce
    1/4 c  Dry Sherry -- Taylors is
           Good
        sl Fresh ginger -- crushed
        ml Garlic -- crushed
 
  Marinate for about 3 or 4 hours...turn every once in awhile.  Grill or
  broil...  Easy, moist and delicious..
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The Grilled Short Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 tb Oil
  2 1/2 lb Kosher cut short ribs
      1 c  Onion, celery, carrots --
           Cubed
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 c  Brandy -- optional
      2 c  Beef stock
      1 tb Arrowroot
           Salt , pepper -- to taste
      1    Onion -- julienned
      1    Turnip -- julienned
           Parsley -- chopped
 
  Heat 2 tablespoons of oil in large skillet. Add short ribs and saute 2
  min.on each side or until well browned. Remove from pan. Set aside.
  Add2 tablespoons oil to skillet and heat. Add cubed onion, celery and
  carrots and bay leaf and saute 5 min. or until browned. Place
  vegetables and short ribs in roasting pan. Bake at 450 15-20 min. to
  braise. Add brandy and beef stock. reduce oven heat to 350 and bake
  covered 1 to 2 hoursor until meat falls away from bone. Remove short
  ribs from pan and set aside. Discard vegetables. Strain pan juices.
  Heat 1 tablespoon oil in small skillet. stir in arrowroot until
  smooth and slightly thickened. Strain again. Season to taste with
  salt and pepper. Heat 1 tablespoon oil and add julienne onion and
  turnip and saute until lightly browned. place vegetables on top of
  short ribs. Pour sauce over vegetables and garish with parsley.
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wet Marinade/Beef    Nnbb09a
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Bourbon
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 tb Worshestershire sauce
    2/3 c  Soy sauce
      2 c  Water
      1 ea Cilantro -- chopped
      3 ea Thyme -- chopped
 
  Mix  all the ingredients together and marinade meat in refrigerator 8
  to 12 hours, rotating meat occasionally.FROM:    MIKE CROUCH (NNBB09A)
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ww - Chili Con Carne
 Categories: Main dish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Beef Broth Mix - WW
           Seeded and diced
     12 oz Beans, drained, canned
    1/2 c  Tomato puree
           Pinto or red kidney
    1/4 c  Onion -- diced
      8 oz Pork, cooked -- dice
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
      1 c  Tomatoes, canned -- crushed
      1 ts Oregano leaves
      1    Pepper, med. green bell
    1/8 ts Cumin -- ground
 
  In a small bowl combine broth mix with reserved liquid from canned
  beans and enough water to make 1 cup.  In a large saucepan combine
  broth mixture and remaining ingredients; simmer, stirring
  occasionally, about 4 minutes or until desired consistency.
  
  Each serving provides:  3 1/2 protein,  1 1/2 vegetable and 5
  optional cal.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carnitas (Little Pieces of Browned Pork)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Meats, Snacks
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Pork shoulder, skin and bone
           -removed *
           Cold water
      2 ts Salt, or to taste
 
  * There is no need for an expensive cut.  Shoulder, butt, or
  country-style spareribs are all suitable.
  
  Cut the meat, with the fat, into strips about 2 x 3/4 inches. Barely
  cover the meat with water, add the salt, and bring to a boil,
  uncovered.
  
  Lower the flame and let the meat continue cooking briskly until all
  of the liquid has evaporated -- by this time it should be cooked
  through but not falling apart.
  
  Lower the flame a little and continue cooking the meat until all of
  the fat has been rendered out of it.  Keep turning the meat until it
  is lightly browned all over, about 1 hour and 10 minutes.
  
  The meat will get more evenly cooked if the dish is rather large and
  shallow.  Do not add too much water at the beginning or the meat will
  fall apart at the frying stage.  If the meat is still fairly hard
  when the water has evaporated, then add a little more water and
  continue cooking. Choose pork that has a fair amount of fat or you
  will have to add some lard for it to brown properly.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
  
  "Certainly throughout the central part of Mexico, carnitas (literally
  'little meats') are the very favorite snack.  They can be crisp or
  juicy, with a little bone or without, and sometimes mixed with the
  soft rind and little bits of fat all chopped up together.  Whatever
  you choose, douse it well with a fresh sauce (Salsa Mexicano Cruda),
  Salsa de Tomate Verde Cruda, or Guacamole---and wrap it in a hot,
  floppy tortilla--the simplest and most delicious taco."
  
  [The Cuisines of Mexico; Diana Kennedy; ISBN 0-06-091561-7]
  
  Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CURRY POWDER MASTER RECIPE
 Categories: Curries, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Coriander seeds
     15    Dry red chili pods
           -(Optional, see note.)
  1 1/2 ts Cumin seeds
  1 1/2 ts Mustard seeds
  1 1/2 ts Fenugreek seeds
  1 1/2 ts Black peppercorns
     15    -20 curry leaves
           (dry or fresh,
           -OPTIONAL)
      3 tb Turmeric powder.
 
  Makes 1 cup.
  
  1. Mix coriander, chili pods, cumin, mustard seeds [use black mustard
  seeds if you can find them], fenugreek seeds, and peppercorns in the
  container of an elctric blender or spice mill and grind the spices to
  a fine poweder in several batches,  Pour into a bowl and combine
  well. 2. If you are using fresh curry leaves, dry them briefly (about
  4 to 5 minutes) in an ungreased frying pan over low heat.  Grind them
  in the blender and then add them to the spice powder in the bowl. 3.
  Stir in the turmeric. 4. Transfer the curry powder to an airtight
  jar, cover tightly, and store in a cool place for up to three months.
  NOTE: For mild-tasting curry powder, reduce or eliminate chili pods.
  [My note: this amount of chili pods will make a very hot curry!
  Reduce them according to your own taste for hot food. Don't worry
  about the curry leaves
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curry Powder
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Cumin seeds
      2 tb Fenugreek
  1 1/2 ts Mustard seeds
      1 tb Black peppercorns
    1/2 c  Coriander seeds
      1 tb Poppy seeds
      1 tb Ground ginger
  1 1/2 ts Hot chili powder
    1/4 c  Ground turmeric
 
  Using a blender, process cumin, fenugreek, mustard, peppercorns,
  coriander and poppy seeds. Add remaining spices; process. Store up to
  3 months.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Lemon Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Graham cracker pie crust
      1    Envelope unflavoured gelatin
    3/4 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs, separated
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
           Teaspoon grated lemon peel
      2    To 3 drops yellow food
           -colouring
    1/2 pt Red raspberries
 
  lemon slices
  
  In saucepan, mix unflavoured gelatin with 1/2 cup sugar. Blend in egg
  yolks that have been beaten with lemon juice and 1/2 cup water. Let
  stand for one minute. Heat, stirring constantly while gelatin
  dissolves. Add lemon peel and food colouring then chill, stirring
  occasionally, until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a
  spoon. Beat egg whites until foamy, add remaining 1/4 cup sugar and
  beat until stiff but not dry. Fold into gelatin mixture. Spoon into
  crust and garnish with raspberries and lemon slices if desired. Chill
  3 to 4 hours.
  
  From The Budget  June 19 th 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Freezer Raspberry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 qt Fully ripened red
           -raspberries
      4 c  Sugar
      3 oz Fruit pectin (1/2 bottle)
      2 tb Lemon juice
      4    Freezer containers with lids
           -(8 ounces each)
 
  1.  Crush the raspberries with a slotted spoon, one layer at a time.
  If desired, press half of the berries through a strainer to remove
  the seeds. In a large bowl, measure 2 cups of the crushed fruit; stir
  in the sugar until most of the sugar is dissolved.  Let stand for 10
  minutes. 2. In a small bowl, stir the pectin with the lemon juice
  until the mixture thickens; combine with the fruit mixture.  Stir for
  about 3 minutes to blend well. 3. Ladle the mixture into the
  containers, leaving 1/2-inch headspace; cover with the lids. Let
  stand at room temperature for 24 hours or until set. Freeze. NOTE:
  For use within 3 weeks, store in the refrigerator.
  
  [Raspberry Recipes from Larriland Farms, Lisbon, MD]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jambalaya Salad
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Salad dressing
    1/2 c  Green pepper, chopped
      1 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Rice, cooked
      6 oz Shrimp, tiny, cooked
      6    Bacon slices, crumbled
    1/2 c  Celery, sliced
    1/4 c  Onion, chopped
    1/4 ts Pepper, red, ground
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 c  Ham, cubed
      1 c  Tomato, chopped
 
  Combine first eight ingredients. Add remaining ingredients except
  bacon. Chill and add bacon just before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jambalaya Too
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry, Vegetables, Main dish
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      3    Chicken fryers, cut in small
           -pieces
      1 lb Sausage, country smoked
      4 md To large onions
      4 c  Long grain rice
      3    Chopped bell peppers
      1    Stalk copped celery
      1    Pod minced garlic
 
  Salt and pepper chicken pieces.  Cut sausage in 1/2 inch pieces.  Add
  small amount of cooking oil; add sausage and brown.   Remove from
  pan.  Brown chicken in sausage drippings, if needed add a small bit
  of oil.  Remove chicken from pot.  Brown onions, bell peppers, celery
  and garlic.  Stir periodically.  When cooked down, add water,
  chicken, sausage, parsley and bring t boil.  While still boiling, add
  rice; stir in and add salt as desired.  Place lid on pot; reduce heat
  and simmer 20 minutes.  If mixture is not dry, cook a little longer.
  From Susan Ford
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet & Sour Mock Crown Roast
 Categories: Spam, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------"ROAST"-------------------------------
      4 cn Luncheon meat (12 oz each)

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Light brown sugar
      1 tb Flour
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Malt vinegar
    1/2 c  Seedless raisins
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 cn Sweet corn (12 oz)
 
  Open cans of luncheon meat.  Cut each block of luncheon meat into
  four to within a quarter of an inch of the base of each piece to
  divide it into sections.  Make up the sauce by mixing all the
  ingredients together and bringing to the boil.  Pour the sauce over
  each piece of meat.  Bake in the pan for 15 minutes in a 350 F oven.
  
  TO SERVE: On a heated serving dish with the luncheon meat arranged to
  form a hollow square and the sauce from the pan poured over. Pile the
  heated, drained corn into the center of the "Crown Roast" and serve
  immediately garnished with parsley.
  
  Origin: Marguerite Patten recipe cards Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Beef Brisket, Texas Style
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 tb Fresh lime juice
  1 1/2 tb Madeira wine
      3 tb Olive oil [use extra-virgin]
      1    Whole beef brisket - 4 to 5
           -pounds
 
  Texas Dry Rub - see recipe
  
  Combine the rub, lime juice, Madeira and olive oil in a blender.
  Process until it becomes a smooth paste.  Or combine the ingredients
  in a small nonreactive bowl and stir into a paste.  Scrape the paste
  from the blender or bowl. With your hands lightly oiled, rub the
  paste into the brisket, coating both sides well.  Cover the brisket
  with clear food wrap and marinate for a minimum of 36 hours in the
  refrigerator. Remove the brisket from the refrigerator and let it sit
  at room temperature (for about 1 hour) before you begin to cook.
  
  TO COOK OUTDOORS, use a covered kettle grill or water smoker.  In a
  kettle grill, indriectly cook the brisket over a water pan containing
  a basting liquid of water, orange juice, wine or something similar
  for about 2 hours per pound, refreshing the coals with damp smoking
  chips every couple of hours.  The brisket should have a dark crust
  when finished. If you are using a water smoker, follw the
  manufacturer's instructions. Remove the brisket from the grill and
  let it stand for 10 minutes before slicing.
  
  TO COOK INDOORS, preheat the oven to 200F.  Put the brisket in a
  roasting pan and place in the center of the oven.  Roast for 2 hours
  per pound, undisturbed. Remove the brisket from the roasting pan and
  let stand for 10 minutes before slicing.  If you like, combine the
  pan juices with some warm barbecue sauce for serving.
  
  To serve, slice the brisket across the grain.  Place overlapping
  slices on a large platter, drizzle with barbecue sauce and garnish
  with grilled red onions rings.
  
  Yield:  10 to 12 servings.
  
  Author's note:  The trick behind a perfectly moist beef brisket is
  slow, even heat or smoke.  If you have a water smoker and access to
  mesquite chips or hard wood, Texas beef brisket takes on added depth.
  But you can get nice results indoors with your own oven.  The Texas
  Dry Rub becomes the basis of a smoky, savory paste.  Serve the
  brisket with your favorite barbecue sauce, a side of coleslaw and a
  garnish of sliced, grilled red onions.
  
  Note from me:  I used this recipe on a 3.25 pound eye of round roast
  and let it marinate in the refrigerator for 72 hours.  It was
  delicious! The rub was very hot, so I rubbed it off the roast before
  slicing so there was no overkill on heat.  We served two sauces on
  the side: homemade BBQ sauce and horseradish sauce. Great with baked
  beans and homegrown tomato salad!
  
  Source: "Marinades" by Jim Tarantino
  
  From: Michelle Bass
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mrs. Malsbury's Corned Beef
 Categories: Can/preserv, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Brisket
      1 oz Whole Black Pepper
      1 oz Whole allspice
      6    Buttons of garlic
      3    Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Salt Peter (Optional, it
           -makes the red color)
 
  Use enough Kosher or Pickling salt mixed with water to float an egg.
  Use only plastic or enamel coated containers.  Metal does something.
  
  Let meat stand in brine 24 hours.  Throw this brine away and add fresh
  water, salt (to float an egg) and spices.  Let stand 2 weeks in
  refrigerator turning over daily.
  
  Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy BBQ Shrimp
 Categories: Hot/spicy, Fish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter, or margarine
    3/4 c  Bottled hickory flavored
           -BBQ
           Sauce, or substitute your
           , own favorite sauce
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 lb Medium to large shrimp
           , unshelled
    1/2 c  Dry Sherry
           Cayenne pepper
           Black pepper
           Garlic Powder
 
  Instructions:
  
  1. Turn on broiler and melt butter in a 13x9-inch broiler pan, or
  other broiler-proof dish.
  
  2. Remove pan from oven and stir in BBQ sauce and lemon juice.
  
  3. Add shrimp and toss to coat. Spread out in pan.
  
  4. Sprinkle cayenne pepper, black pepper and garlic powder GENEROUSLY
  over the shrimp, remembering that the shell is on the shrimp and not
  all seasoning will be absorbed!
  
  5. Broil five inches from the heat source for four minutes. Turn
  shrimp. Add sherry and broil for four minutes longer.
  
  6. Let stand for a few minutes to absorb the spices (my dad's astute
  addition)
  
  7. Makes 4-6 servings, depending on your "hearty" appetite. I serve
  it with boiled potatoes in butter and parsley and some other veggie,
  depending on the season.
  
  8. Don't have too much wine while making this. I did one time and
  ended up with little fireballs that were even too spicy for me
  (amazing, but true!!)
  
  WARNING: This is a WONDERFULLY addictive recipe and VERY VERY VERY
  messy, as you have to peel the shrimp when done. NO white shirts or
  pants allowed (although SOME kind would be appropriate ;-) ) Enjoy!
  I've seen lots of requests for spicy food. My dad got this recipe out
  of the State Times in Baton Rouge about 6 years ago. The
  author/creator/goddess is Lynn Greeson Mitchell. It's VERY easy and
  quick.
  
  Source: Kristin Ringuest
  
  From: Mike Bowers <mikeb@radonc.ucdmc.ucdavis.edu> via Fidonet echo
  Chili-Head
  
  MMed by earl.cravens@mgmtsys.com
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoky Brisket > Southern Living
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 ts Garlic salt
      1 ts Onion salt
      1 ts Celery salt
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
  1 1/2 tb Liquid smoke
  2 1/2 lb Beef brisket
 
  Combine seasonings, and pour over brisket; marinate overnight.  Place
  brisket in a roaster.  Cover with aluminum foil; then place lid on
  roaster. Bake at 250 degrees for 5 hours.  Do not remove lid during
  baking. Let stand 15 minutes before slicing.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, December, 1976. Typed for you by
  Nancy Coleman.
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet And Sour Brisket > Randy Rigg
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 lb Single beef brisket
      2 lg Onions, sliced
      1 cl Garlic, minced
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Vinegar
      1 c  Catsup
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Place brisket in heavy skillet and brown on all sides, add onion and
  garlic and brown.  All other ingredients are now added simmered
  (covered) until meat is tender, about 2 1/2 to 3 hours. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Tea
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 7 quarts
 
      6 qt Water
      4 ea Quart-sized tea bags
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ea 12-ounce cans frozen
           -lemonade concentrate,
           -thawed & undiluted
           Fresh mint leaves (optional)
           Lemon slices (optional)
 
     Bring water to a boil; add tea bags. Remove from heat, cover and
  let stand 20 minutes.  Add sugar and lemonade concentrate, stirring
  until dissolved. Add mint leaves, if desired. Serve over ice; garnish
  with lemon slices, if desired.  Yield: about 7 quarts.
  
  Recipe from "Southern Living" July, 1982 Reprinted in _Southern
  Living 1982 Annual Recipes_ Oxmoor House, Inc. ISBN 0-8487-0537-8
  Typos by Jeff Pruett Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus Cooler
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 4 -1/2 qrts
 
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Water
     46 oz Can pineapple juice
     46 oz Can orange juice
  1 1/2 c  Lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Ginger ale
           Pineapple wedges (Optional)
 
     Combine sugar and water in a medium sauce-pan; bring to a boil,
  stirring until sugar dissolves. Pour sugar mixture into a 4-1/2 quart
  freezer container. Stir in fruit juice; freeze until firm.  Remove
  from freezer several hours before serving (mixture should be slushy).
  Stir in ginger ale. Garnish with pineapple wedges, if desired. Yield:
  5-1/2 quarts.
  
  Recipe by Billye Johnson; in July 1982 "Southern Living" Reprinted in
  _Southern Living 1982 Annual Recipes_ Oxmoor House. ISBN 0-8487-0537-8
  Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Generic Muffins and Variations
 Categories: Breads, Muffins
      Yield: 24 small muff
 
      2 c  Cake Flour [1]
    1/2 ts To 1 tsp salt
      2 tb To 4 T Sugar [2]
      2 ts Baking powder [3]
      1    Or 2 eggs [4]
      2 tb To 4 T melted butter [5]
    3/4 c  Milk [6]
 
  Sift flour and measure it. Resift with salt, baking powder and sugar.
  Beat the eggs in a separate bowl; add and mix the butter and milk. To
  mix add the optional ingredients to the flour mixture and then beat
  in the liquid ingredients to the dry ones with a few swift strokes...
  a minimum of strokes; ignore the last few lumps so as not to develop
  and toughen the wheat gluten.
  
  To bake fill a well greased [ or use cooking spray or teflon if you
  are seeking low fat recipes ] or cup-cake paper lined muffin pan
  about 2/3 full with water in any empty wells so to protect the pan
  and moisten the muffins while baking. Bake at once in a pre-heated
  400 deg oven for 20-25 min. Let muffins cool slightly before removing
  from pan.
  
  [1] Flours: Use 1 3/4 to 1 7/8 c All-purpose flour depending on
  liquids. or 1 c Whole grain or Graham flour + 1 c All-purpose flour.
  or 1 1/2 c flour + 1/2 c Bran. or 1 c flour + 1 c cooked porridge or
  rice. or 1 1/3 c flour + 2/3 c quick oat meal. or 1 1/2 c flour + 1/4
        ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ c ea bran and wheat
  germ. or 1 c flour + 1 c corn meal [+bacon bits]. or 1 c whole wheat
  flour + 1/2 c wheat germ + 1/2 c soy flour + 1/4 tsp extra baking
  powder [hi protein]. or 1/2 c  Whole Wheat Flour + 1/3 c Bran + 1/4 c
  Peanut Butter + 1/3 c Peanuts, chopped. or 1 c flour + 1 c All-Bran
  cereal.
  
  [2] Sugars: Use 2 tbl molasses + 1 to 2 Tbl white sugar. or 2 to 4 Tbl
  Orange marmalade or Pineapple jam. or 4 Tbl brown sugar. or 1/2 c
  molasses, reduce liquids and add all-spice. or 1/2 c honey, and
  reduce liquids.
  
  [3] Leavenings: If using an acid like sour cream or buttermilk reduce
  to 1 tsp and add 1/2 tsp baking soda.
  
  [4] Eggs: Substitute 2 egg whites for 1 whole egg to reduce fat.
  
  [5] Fats: Use 1 c sour cream/yogurt instead of butter and milk, with
  soda and less baking powder and perhaps extra sugar. or 2 to 4 Tbl
  liquid vegetable oil or melted shortening, margarine [ or lard/bacon
  fat if adding bacon]. or 1/3 c skim milk and 1 c apple sauce instead
  of butter and milk.
  
  [6] Liquids: Use 1 c Buttermilk with soda and less baking powder. or
  1/2 c milk + 1/2 c Apple juice and reduce sugar. or 1/2 c milk + 1/2
  c orange juice + 2 Tbl orange zest. or 1 c light cereal cream; omit
  the butter & 2nd egg.
  
  [7] Additions: Add 1/4 to 1/2 c chopped nuts, dried apricots, prunes,
  dates, figs, crushed pineapple, candied ginger or raisins. or 1/2 c
  chopped, dried apricots + 1/4 c walnuts + 2 tsp pumpkin pie spice. or
  1/2 c chopped pecans + 1/2 tsp cinnamon [and use brown sugar]. or 1/2
  c chopped pecans + 1/4 tsp nutmeg + 1/2 c mashed banana and reduce
  liquids by half. or 1 c shredded coconut. or 1/2 c chopped apples +
  1/2 tsp cinnamon + 1/4 tsp ea nutmeg and cloves. or 1/2 c chopped
  apples + 1/2 c grated sharp cheddar and garnish with apple slices. or
  2 Tbl grated orange peel. or 1 to 2 tsp grated lemon peel. or 1/2 c
  mashed pumpkin + 1/4 ts Ground cinnamon or 1 c grated carrot or diced
  zucchini. or 1/2 c mashed bananas [ and reduce liquids by half] +
  opt'l 1/2 tsp or more cinnamon. or 1 Banana + 1/2 c grated carrots +
  1 tsp Cinnamon. or 1/2 c chopped, fresh apricots + 1/4 tsp ea
  cardamon and ginger. or 1 c lightly floured or sugared blueberries or
                       ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  cranberries + opt'l 1/4 tsp cloves or 1 tsp cinnamon.
  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
  
  or 1 c lightly floured or sugared raspberries or sliced strawberries +
  opt'l 1 tsp grated lemon peel. or 1 c chopped rhubarb or half and half
  strawberries. or 1 c lightly floured or sugared cherries + opt'l 1/4
  tsp ginger. or 1/4 c cocoa + 1/2 c extra sugar + 1 tsp vanilla +
  opt'l 1/2 c chocolate chips, nuts or raisins. or 1/2 c butterscotch
  chips + 1 c chopped apple.
  
  [8] Stuffings: Pour half the batter and place a spoon of jam or an
  orange segment etc. and top off with more batter.
  
  [9] Toppings: Garnish batter top with a cherry or orange segment etc.
  before baking. or 1/4 c brown sugar + 1/4 c chopped pecans and 1/2 t
  ground cinnamon mixed and sprinkled on batter. or 1/4 c brown sugar +
  1 ts Cinnamon + 1/4 ts Ground cloves + 3 Tbl butter in a small
  saucepan, cover and steam over low heat for 2 min before spooning
  over batter.
  
  [10] For savory rather than sweet muffins reduce sugar to 1 Tbl and
  add: 1/4 to 1/2 c cooked, crumbled bacon or grated cheese. or 1/4 c
  parmesan + 1/4 c parsley. or 1/4 c chopped onion + 1 Tbl dill or 1
  tsp other green herb. or 1/4 c chopped chives. or 1 c diced zucchini
  + 1 tsp Italian seasoning. or 12 oz Can Green Giant Mexi-corn. or
  slice and serve corn meal muffins with 1/2 lb Smoked turkey breast,
  thinly sliced + cranberry relish or honey mustard.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brownies (Chocolate-Nut)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Fluffo shortening
  2 1/2    Squares unsweetened chocolat
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Melt shortening and chocolate together.Blend sugar and eggs and stir
  into melted chocolate mixture.Beat in combined dry ingredients.Stir
  lin nuts and vanilla.Pour batter into 9" square pan rubbed with
  fluffo and bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes or until toothpick
  inserted comes out clean.Cut into squares while warm.
  
  Note My aunt has tried these and has marked them good.
  
  Typed by G.Major           07\08\95 From a box of fluffo shortening
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gum Drop Squares
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 35 squares
 
      1 pk McCormick's baking gums,slic
      2 c  Flour
      4    Eggs
      1 tb Cold water
      2 c  Light brown sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Chopped pecan meats
 
  Mix baking gums with 1/4 c flour.Beat eggs with water.Beat in sugar
  until fluffy.Add remaining flour,salt and cinnamon sifted
  together.Add nuts and baking gums.Spread in buttered pan .Bake
  30minutes at 325 degrees.Cut into squares.Roll in powdered sugar.
  
  typed by G.Major From bag of McCormick's Baking Gums
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gum Drop Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 dozen
 
      1 c  Margarine
    3/4 c  White sugar
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
      2    Eggs,unbeaten
      2 c  Rolled oats
    3/4 c  Coconut
      1 pk McCorkmick's baking gums,cut
           Fine
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    3/4 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sifted flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Baking powder
 
  Combine margarine,skugars,eggs,lemom rind and vanilla and beat
  thoroughly.Sift floiur with salt,baking powder and soda.Add to
  margarine mixture and mix well.Add rolled oats,coconut,baking gums
  and nuts.Mix thoroughly.Drop by teaspoonfuls onto greased cookie
  sheet and bake at 350 degrees for 8-10 minutes.
  
  Typed by G.Major       07\08\95 From McCormick's Baking Gums
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Meatballs
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/4 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onions
      1    Egg,slightly beaten
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 cn Campbells Cream of Mushroom
           Soup
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Mex beef,bread crumbs,onion,egg and salt.Shape into 16 meatballs in
  frying pan ,brown meatballsl,pour off fat.Stir in soup,water and
  parsley.Cover.Cook over low heat 20 minutes.Stirring now and then.
  Typed by G.Major From label of Campbell's Cream of Mushroom Soup
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Favorite Tuna Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
    3/4 c  Milk
      2 cn Tuna,drained and flaked
      2 c  Cooked noodles or macaroni
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      2 tb Pimiento
      2 tb Buttered bread crumbs
 
  In a 1.5 casserole,blend soup and milk.Add tuma,noodlesl,parsley and
  pimiento.Bake in 350 degree oven for 30 minutes. Top with crumbs,bake
  5 minutes more.
  
  Typed by G.Major From label of Campbell's Cream of Mushroom Soup
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Double Chocolate Treasures
 Categories: Tasteofhome, Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Cocoa
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Butter, softened
    2/3 c  White sugar
    2/3 c  Light brown sugar, packed
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
      1 pk 10 oz large semisweet
           Chocolate pieces or 2 - 12
           Oz packages small pieces
    3/4 c  Chopped pecans or other nuts
 
  Preheat oven to 350F. In a small bowl, combine flour, cocoa, soda,
  and salt and set aside. In a large mixing bowl, cream butter with
  sugars, vanilla, and then add eggs. Mix flour mixture with butter
  mixture. Add chocolate and nuts.
  
  Bake on an ungreased cookie sheet for 9-12 minutes.
  
  Very rich and very good.
  Submitted By LINDA FIELDS   On   07-11-95 (1828)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three-Tomato Tart
 Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
      2    Egg whites
      1 c  Low-fat ricotta cheese
      2 cl Garlic, minced
      1 tb Fresh lemon thyme or thyme,
           -snipped
      2 lg Tomatoes, sliced
      5    Yellow or red cherry
           Tomatoes, sliced
      2    Red cherry tomatoes, sliced
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Fresh lemon thyme or thyme,
           -snipped

MMMMM----------------PASTRY FOR SINGLE-CRUST PIE---------------------
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Shortening or lard
      4 tb Cold water
 
  Prepare Pastry Dough: In a mixing bowl, stir together flour and salt.
  Cut in shortening until pieces are the size of small peas. Sprinkle 1
  tablespoon cold water over part of the mixture; gently toss with a
  fork. Push to side of bowl. Repeat, using 2 to 3 more tablespoons
  cold water, until all is moistened. Form dough into a ball. On a
  lightly floured surface, using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll
  pastry into a circle about 12 inches in diameter. Transfer to a
  10-inch tart pan; ease pastry into pan. Trim pastry even with rim of
  pan. Do not prick pastry. Line pastry shell with a double thickness
  of heavy-duty foil. Bake pastry in a 450F oven for 5 minutes. Remove
  foil. Bake for 5 to 7 minutes more or until pastry is nearly done.
  Remove from oven. Reduce oven temperature to 325F. Sprinkle tart
  shell with Parmesan cheese.
      Meanwhile, in a mixing bowl beat egg whites slightly. Stir in
  ricotta cheese, garlic and 1 tablespoon thyme; spread over pastry.
  Overlap large tomato slices in a circle around edges. Arrange yellow
  cherry tomatoes in a circle within tomato ring. Fill center with red
  cherry tomatoes. Stir together olive oil and 2 teaspoons thyme. Brush
  tomatoes with oil mixtures.
      Bake tart in a 325F oven for 25 to 30 minutes or until heated
  through and nearly set. Serve warm or at room temperature. Store
  leftovers in the refrigerator. Makes 10 to 12 appetizer servings.
  
  Typed by Roberta Thompson Source: Country Home Book of Herbs, Meredith
  Books ISBN 0-696-00083-0
  Submitted By CHAT CAT #2 @4203   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Pound Cake  Fbfj97a
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Butter
      8 oz Cream cheese
      3 c  Sugar
      6    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Almond extract
      3 c  Flour
 
       Cream butter and cheese; blend in sugar.  Add eggs one at a time
  and continue to blend.  Add extracts and flour and beat until smooth
  and light. Pour batter into greased and floured tube pan.  Bake in
  325 degree oven 1 1/2 hours.
       *****HONOLULU STAR BULLETIN*****
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Pound Cake or Chocolate Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3    Sticks butter, softened
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      3 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
      6    Eggs
      3 c  Cake or all purpose flour
      1    Dash salt
 
  Preheat oven to 325 degrees.  Cream butter and cream cheese.
  Gradually add sugar, salt and vanilla, beatting well. Alternately add
  eggs and flour until mixed together thoroughly. Pour batter into a
  well greased tube pan and bake for 1 1/2 hours.
  
  Note:  You can make a chocolate pound cake out of this recipe by
  substituting 1/2 cup of cocoa for 1/2 cup of flour.
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Egg Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      6    Hard boiled eggs
      2 ts Prepared mustard
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/4 tb Margarine
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Chopped pimento
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Crumbled fried bacon
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Halve eggs lenthwise; remove the yolks.  Mash yolks, mustard, 3
  teaspoons of sour cream and salt together.  Fill egg whites with yolk
  mixture. Melt margarine in a large skillet, saute green peppers and
  onion until tender. Remove from heat; stir in pimento, soup and
  remaining sour cream and bacon. Place half the soup mixture in a 1
  1/2 quart shallow baking dish. Pour remaining soup mixture over the
  top. Sprinkle with Cheddar cheese. Bake at 350 degrees for 20
  minutes, or until heat through. Cook uncovered. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Chezettes
 Categories: Snacks, Cheese/eggs, Meats
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/2 lb Grated American cheese
      1 cn Deviled ham
      1 ts Grated onion
    1/4 ts Salt
        ds Worcestershire sauce
 
  Combine all ingredients.  Spread between 2 slices of bread from which
  crusts have been removed.  Spread outside of bread with softened
  butter. Wrap in foil and store in refrigerator or freezer until ready
  to use. Place package on charcoal grill and toast 8 minutes per side,
  or remove from package and grill in a skillet. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Salmon Caper Spread
 Categories: Seafood, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/4 c  Parsley
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Capers,rinsed and drained
      1 c  Smoked salmon
 
  Combine cream cheese, lemon juice, milk and capers with 2/3 cup of
  salmon in food processor or blender. Mix until smooth. Add remaining
  1/3 cup salmon and mix until just stirred into the cheese mixture.
  Chill in small bowl lined with plastic wrap. Just before serv- ing,
  roll in chopped fresh parsley. Serve with crackers~ or breads for an
  appetizer. Carol Sturgulewski, Anchorage, Alaska Alaska Seafood
  Cookbook by The Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute and the Alaska
  Home Economics Association; downloaded from the Alaska Seafood
  Marketing Institute BBS Submitted By AMY WILSON   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mendenhall Crab Puffs
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Sifted flour
      4    Eggs

MMMMM------------------------CRAB FILLING-----------------------------
      2 c  Crab, drained
    1/4 c  Minced celery
      3 tb Grated onion
           Pepper to taste
      3 tb Miracle Whip salad dressing
 
  Bring to a rolling boil in saucepan over medium heat: 1 cup water,
  1/2 cup butter, or margarine. Stir in at once: 1 cup sifted flour.
  Stir vigorously over low heat, about 1 minute or until mixture leaves
  the pan and forms a ball. Remove from heat. Beat in thoroughly, one
  at a time, 4 eggs. Beat till mixture is smooth and velvety. Drop by
  spoon onto ungreased baking sheet, into about the size of a walnut.
  Bake at 400 for 30 to 35 minutes or until golden brown and dry. Cool
  thoroughly. Cut off tops with a sharp knife. Scoop out any filaments
  of soft dough. Fill with crab filling. Replace tops. Serve
  immediately or refrigerate, covered. Makes 18- 20 puffs. Filling:
  Combine all ingredients. Judy Haffner, Auke Bay, Alaska Alaska
  Seafood Cookbook by The Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute and the
  Alaska Home Economics Association; downloaded from the Alaska Seafood
  Marketing Institute BBS Submitted By AMY WILSON   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Halibut Bits
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2    -2 lbs. halibut, cut into1"
           Squares
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      3 tb Cooking oil
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
      1    Bay leaf
     16 oz Can whole tomatoes 1
        ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper margarine tabasco
           (optional) season to taste
 
  Nancy Waidron, Juneau, Alaska
  
  Lightly grease a 8':9" baking dish with margarine. Place cubed
  halibut in baking dish, cover and bake in a 350o oven for 20 minutes,
  or until fish flakes easily with a fork. While fish is baking,
  prepare the Creole sauce. Cook 1/2 cup chopped onion and 1 minced
  garlic clove in 3 tablespoons cooking oil until yellowed. Add 1/2 cup
  chopped green pepper, 1 bay leaf, 16 oz. can whole tomatoes (cut into
  bite-sized pieces), 1 teaspoon salt, 1/8 teaspoon pepper. Simmer
  uncovered for 20 minutes. May add tabasco, as desired. When fish is
  done, drain off excess liquid. Pour creole sauce over halibut and
  serve hot. Serves 4-6. Alaska Seafood Cookbook by The Alaska Seafood
  Marketing Institute and the Alaska Home Economics Association;
  downloaded from the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute BBS Submitted
  By AMY WILSON   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Halibut Delight
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Halibut, cut into chunks
      1 c  Flour
  5 1/2 ts Garlic powder
  5 1/2 ts Curry powder (or a bit less)
      1 ts Marjoram
      2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Lemon pepper
      2 c  Panko (Japanese potato
           Flakes)
      8    To 12 oz. flat beer
 
  Paula Harrison, Fairbanks, Alaska
  
  Combine flour, garlic powder, curry powder, marjoram, baking powder,
  and lemon pepper. Mix well. Slowly add enough flat beer to make a
  thick batter. Dip halibut in batter and then roll in Panko. Let stand
  for 2 minutes. Deep fry in 375  F fat until golden brown. Drain on
  absorbent paper and serve with a tartar sauce or a zesty tomato,
  horseradish sauce for dipping. Serves 3-4. Alaska Seafood Cookbook by
  The Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute and the Alaska Home Economics
  Association; downloaded from the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute
  BBS Submitted By AMY WILSON   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curry Halibut Stroganoff
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      1 ts Curry powder
      8 oz Halibut (cooked and flaked)
      1 cn Cream of Chicken soup
    1/2 c  Plain yogurt
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
 
  Gerry Baldeschwiler, Sitka, Alaska
  
  Saute chopped onion and curry powder in butter. Stir in can of chicken
  soup, yogurt, milk, lemon juice and halibut. Serve over rice or
  noodles. Garnish with tomato slices and parsley, or chopped unsalted
  peanuts, currants and chutney. Serves 4-6 (depending on serving
  portions). Alaska Seafood Cookbook by The Alaska Seafood Marketing
  Institute and the Alaska Home Economics Association; downloaded from
  the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute BBS
  Submitted By AMY WILSON   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elegant Baked Snapper
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Snapper fillets
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Seafood seasoning
      1 ts Dill weed
    1/2    -1/4 cup onion, finely
           Minced
    1/2 ts Pepper
    3/4 c  Grated cheddar cheese
 
  Marian Glenz, Myers Chuck, Alaska
  
  Place fillets in a baking dish and sprinkle with dill weed. Mix the
  sour cream, seafood seasoning, and pepper together and use a rubber
  scraper to "frost" the mixture over the fillets. Sprinkle with the
  chopped onion and the grated cheddar cheese. Bake at 400o F until
  lightly browned and the fish flakes easily with a fork when tested in
  the center. Serves 6.
  
  Microwave version: Prepare as above, cover and cook in the microwave
  on high for 8 minutes. Test and continue to cook until the fish
  flakes easily. Brown in the oven (lightly). Alaska Seafood Cookbook
  by The Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute and the Alaska Home
  Economics Association; downloaded from the Alaska Seafood Marketing
  Institute BBS Submitted By AMY WILSON   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Halibut Broccoli Pie
 Categories: Seafood, Pie/tart, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Sharp cheddar cheese, grated
  5 1/2 c  Flaked halibut
      1 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 pk Frozen chopped broccoli,
           Thawed and drained
  1 1/3 c  Milk
      3    Eggs
    3/4 c  Bisquick baking mix
    1/2 ts Lemon pepper
    1/4 ts Minced garlic
    1/8 ts Dried thyme
           Leaves
 
  Clint Potter, Sitka, Alaska
  
  Mix 2 cups cheese, halibut, onion and broccoli together and place in
  a 10" greased pie plate. Beat milk, eggs, Bisquick, lemon pepper,
  garlic and thyme. Pour over halibut-broccoli mixture. Bake 400o for
  25-35 minutes or until knife inserted in center comes out clean. Top
  with remaining cheese and bake 1-2 minutes longer to melt cheese.
  Cool 5 minutes and cut into wedges. Garnish with tomato and parsley.
  Alaska Seafood Cookbook by The Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute and
  the Alaska Home Economics Association; downloaded from the Alaska
  Seafood Marketing Institute BBS Submitted By AMY WILSON   On
   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Italianne
 Categories: Seafood, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Salmon fillet
           Mayonnaise to spread about
    1/3    " thick over salmon
           Ketchup to make a thin layer
           Over mayonnaise
      4    Strips bacon, cut in 1"
           Pieces
    1/2    -3/4 cup finely minced
           Onion
 
  Marcella Wisnewski, Ketchikan, Alaska
  
  Line baking pan with a sheet of tin foil. Cut salmon into about six
  pieces (each about 3".x3"). Cover the pieces with a thick layer of
  mayonnaise (about 1/3" thick)~ Cover the mayonnaise with a very thin
  layer of ketchup. Sprinkle minced onion over each serving and -
  divide the bacon, evenly over the fish. Bake at 400o F ' for 40 to 45
  minutes. Serves 6. ' Alaska Seafood Cookbook by The Alaska Seafood
  Marketing Institute and the Alaska Home Economics Association;
  downloaded from the Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute BBS
  Submitted By AMY WILSON   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Essence or Extract
 Categories: Meats, Soup/stew
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           Makes 2 cups
           -(reconstituted, about 8
           -quarts, or 1 cup of broth
           Per Tbsp. of essence.
      6 lb (or more) beef and veal
           -bones, sawed into pieces
           -by the
 
  butcher (try to have the pieces cut no more than 2 to 3 inches long or
  wide.) 3-1/2 to 4 pounds boneless shin of beef, cut into 1 inch cubes
  2 large, unpeeled onions, one sliced, the other left whole 2 large
  carrots, scrubbed and cut up coarsely Water as needed 2 ribs of
  celery, with leaves, cut up 1/2 tsp. dried thyme, crumbled 1 medium
  bay leaf 1 whole clove 2 ripe tomatoes, coarsely chunked 1 unpeeled
  clove garlic, left whole 2 or 3 sprigs parsley Preheat the oven to
  450 degrees. In one or two large, shallow roasting pans spread all
  the bones and half of the shin beef, reserving the other half in the
  refrigerator. Add the sliced onion and the cut up carrots.  Put the
  pan or pans into the oven and brown the ingredients for 40 to 50
  minutes, stirring and turning them from time to time; you want a good
  brown color. Pour off any fat and put the bones, meat, and vegetables
  into a very large stock pot. Pour 2 or 3 cups of water into the
  roasting pan(s), then set over direct heat and stir and scrape to
  dissolve all the brown bits.  Pour the deglazing liquid into the
  stock pot. Add enough water to cover everything by about 2 inches.
  Add the celery, thyme, bay leaf, the second onion (stuck with a
  single clove, tomatoes, garlic, and parsley. Bring the liquid to a
  boil, then adjust the heat so that the pot, partially covered,
  maintain a gentle simmer, with only an occasional bubble.  Skim off
  any foam at the beginning and cook everything for 7 or 8 hours,
  skimming occasionally (this is to achieve clarity in the finished
  essence).  The simmering can be interupted for several hours, or
  overnight; let the pot sit, uncovered, for up to 8 hours at room
  temperature, then resume cooking when convenient. (Refrigerate for
  longer times or if the weather is warm.) After you judge all possible
  flavor has been extracted from the solids in the pot, strain them all
  out, pressing on them with a spoon to extract all the juices. Skim
  all fat from the strained broth, which by now will amount to about 4
  or 5 quarts.  Strain the broth through a cheesecloth-lined strainer
  into the washed out pot (or into a smaller one) and add the remaining
  beef, which you have meanwhile chopped or ground to the fineness of
  hamburger. Resume simmering, skimming off fat and scum about every
  half hour. After cooking the stock with the beef for 1-1/2 hours,
  strain out the meat, pressing it to extract all possible flavor.
  Strain the broth through the cheesecloth again a begin the final
  reduction.  Resume simmering the stock, cooking the
  ever-strengthening essence gently as long as necessary for it to
  become a syrupy substance that will coat a cool metal spoon; this may
  take up to 2 hours. (For the clearest essence, skim frequently.
  However, the flavor of the finished product will be fine if you
  aren't too fussy about the skimming; just be sure to skim off any fat
  that appears. The essence is finished when it passes the metal-spoon
  test. Strain it through a fine meshed metal strainer into small jars
  or pots and let it cool, uncovered. Cover it closely and store in the
  refrigerator, or freeze it. If frozen, scoop out with a hot spoon as
  needed. Note: The exact yield wil depend on how much collagen was
  contained in the bones and meat++the more collagen, the sooner the
  jellying stage is reached.  The cooled essence will be firm, almost
  rubbery, and highly concentrated in flavor.  If any surface mold
  should eventually develop, remove it++it's harmless. From: Better
  Than Store Bought Shared By: Pat Stockett
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sylvia's Salmon Croquettes
 Categories: Breakfast, Fish, Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           "Croquettes for breakfast?
           -They're a favorite of the
           -breakfast crowd
           At Sylvia's.  These
           -croquettes can be made
           -entirely ahead of time and
           Pan-fried at the last
           -minute.  Serve them with
           -fried eggs and grits and
           Pass a basket of warm
           -biscuits."
 15 1/2 ea Ounce can pink salmon
      1 md Onion, diced
      1 md Green bell pepper, cored,
           -seeded, and diced
      2 lg Eggs
    1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
           Vegetable oil for cooking
 
  Drain the can of salmon and place the salmon in a large mixing bowl.
  Add the remaining ingredients and mix thoroughly.  The croquette
  mixture should be moist and not too chunky. Grease one or two large
  heavy skillets lightly with oil and heat over medium heat. (A
  seasoned cast-iron skillet is perfect.)  Use about 1/4 cup of the
  croquette mixture to form patties 3 inches across and about 1/2 inch
  thick. Cook the croquettes, turning them once, until golden brown on
  both sides, about 4 minutes. Serve hot. Serves 6 Note: You may have
  to cook the croquettes in batches. Keep the cooked ones hot on a
  baking sheet in a preheated 250 degree oven while cooking the rest.
  From: Sylvia's Soul Food++Recipes from Harlem's World Famous
  Restaurant Asbury Park Press 2/3/93 Shared By: Pat Stockett
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minute Rice Pudding
 Categories: Desserts, Rice, Puddings, Snacks
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      4 c  Milk
      1 ea Egg (well beaten)
      1 ea Sm pkg Jello Vanilla
           -Pudding and Pie Filling
           -(not instant)
      1 c  Minute Original Rice
    1/4 c  Raisins  (optional)
    1/4 ts Cinnamon (ground)
    1/8 ts Nutmeg  (ground)
 
  Gradually stir milk and egg into pudding mix in saucepan. Add rice and
  raisins. Stir over medium heat until mixture just comes to boil. Cool
  5 minutes, stirring twice. Pour into dessert dishes or serving bowl.
  Sprinkle with cinnamon and nutmeg; serve warm (For chilled pudding,
  place plastic wrap or wax paper on surface of hot putting.
  Refrigerate about 1 hour. Stir before serving; sprinkle with nutmeg
  and cinnamon.) Makes 5 cups or 8 servings. From Minute Rice insert.
  
  Submitted By GARY HARTFORD   MSG# 12155
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORK IN CARAMEL SAUCE
 Categories: Vietnamese, Meats, Main dish, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------THIT HEO KHO-----------------------------
      1 kg Boneless pork neck
    100 ea Sugar
  2 1/2 tb Fish sauce
      6 sl Of ginger
      4 ea Cloves of garlic, crushed
      1 ea Stalk of lemongrass, halved
           -lengthwise and cut in 5cm
           -lengths
           Lemon juice, to taste
      3 ea Vietnamese mint or
           -coriander leaves, or to
           -taste
           Pickled bean sprouts
           -(recipe follows)
           Green onion strips, for
           -garnish
           Starfruit slices
           -(optional), for garnish
           Extra caramel sauce
           -(optional), to serve
           -(recipe follows)
 
  Trim pork of fat and cut into 1.5cm pieces. Combine sugar with 2
  tablespoons water in a heavy saucepan and stir over low heat until
  sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil and cook, without stirring, until
  golden. Remove from heat, stir in fish sauce, ginger, garlic and the
  pork pieces, and season to taste. Add enough water to cover the pork,
  stir well and add lemongrass. Bring to the boil, skim surface and
  cook over medium heat for 40 minutes, or until pork is tender. Bring
  to a rapid boil and cook until the water evaporates and pork is
  caramelised but not dry. Season to taste with a squeeze of lemon
  juice and the Vietnamese mint. Serve topped with pickled bean sprouts
  and garnish with green onion strips and slices of starfruit. Pass the
  extra sauce separately. Serves 6. Pickled bean sprouts: Combine 1/2
  cup distilled white vinegar, 1 tablespoon salt and 1 litre water in a
  saucepan and bring to the boil. Cool. Pour over 250g bean sprouts and
  marin. ate for 1 hour. Drain and serve. Extra caramel sauce: Combine
  110g (1/2 cup) sugar with 2 tablespoons water in a saucepan and stir
  over low heat until sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil and cook,
  without stirring, until golden. Remove from heat and carefully add 2
  1/2 tablespoons of fish sauce and 1 tablespoon water. Return to heat
  and stir until well combined and smooth, adding a little extra water
  if sauce is too thick. Add 4 thinly sliced green onions and season to
  taste with pepper.
  
  Submitted By SHERREE JOHANSSON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Borsch
 Categories: Russian, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  7 1/2 c  Beef stock
  1 1/2 lb Spinach
      2    Carrots
    1/2    Small turnip
      1    Medium potato
      1    Onion
      2    Sticks celery
           Salt and pepper
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
      1 ts Sugar
      3    Hard boiled eggs
      6 tb Sour cream
 
  Remove the hard stems from the spinach and wash it thoroughly. Put it
  in a saucepan with a little salted water. Cover and boil for 15
  minutes or until cooked. Sieve  and transfer it to stock together
  with the water it has been cooked in. Peel and wash the rest of the
  vegetables and cut them into fine strips. Add them to the stock.
  Bring to the boil and season. Cover and simmer for about 20 minutes.
  Add the lemon juice and a little sugar and serve with one dessert
  spoon of sour cream and a little chopped hard boiled eggs to each
  plate. This is best when the spinach is young in the spring. Serve
  with rye bread.Frozen spinach does work also. Serves 6
  
  Inge
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Suggested Herb Mixes for Meat, for Fish and for Poultry
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------MEAT MIX-------------------------------
      1 ea Thyme 1  Basil
      1 ea Savory 1  Fennel
      1 ea Lavender

MMMMM--------------------------FISH MIX-------------------------------
      1 ea Fennel 1  Marjoram
      1 ea Savory 1  Sage
      1 ea Thyme

MMMMM------------------------POULTRY MIX-----------------------------
      1 ea Tarragon 1  Rosemary
      1 ea Marjoram 1  Basil
      1 ea Dill
 
  The above dry herb mixes can be prepared using equal amounts of the
  herbs or using more of one and less of another, to your individual
  taste. Combine the ingredients and store the mixes in airtight jars.
  
  TO SANDEE EVELAND  Submitted By LENORE LOCKEN  SUBJ RE HERBED OILS
    On 07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Butters (Instructions)
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Dips/spread, Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  One good technique for making fast summery sauces without the stove
  is to prepare various compound butters with fresh herbs.  Probably
  the best known is maitre d'hotel, which is seasoned with parsley,
  salt, pepper, and lemon juice.  A dollop of this is often served on a
  sizzling grilled steak. It is a superb combination.
  
  These butters can be made with almost any blend of fresh herbs and
  spices. Tarragon butter and sorrel butter go quite well with seafood.
  Basil butter is excellent with poultry and vegetables while coriander
  butter add an erotic touch to almost any grilled entree.  It can be
  fun to experiment with your own. The following is a simple technique
  for making herb butters that can be refrigerated and used when
  needed. Blend a half pound of softened butter with the desired herbs
  and spices in a small mixing bowl. Taste for seasoning and adjust if
  necessary. Cool the mixed butter slightly until it becomes firm
  enough to mold. Shape it into a rough cylinder and lay it in the
  center of an 8- by 6-inch sheet of waxed paper. Roll the butter,
  using both hands, and form into a cylinder about 5 inches long
  wrapped in the waxed paper.  When the butter is rolled, fold over the
  ends of the waxed paper to secure it; refrigerate. Open the package
  when needed and slice off disks of the herb butter. Reseal and
  refrigerate. Herb butter will last for weeks in the refrigerator if
  securely sealed. [ Pierre Franey in The New York Times, Aug 13, 1986 ]
  
  TO SANDEE EVELAND  Submitted By LENORE LOCKEN  SUBJ RE HERBED OILS
    On 07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carnitas a la Casera
 Categories: Meats, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 3/4 lb To 2 lbs Pork butt
    1/2 md Onion, cut in half
      1 lg Garlic clove
      1 tb Ground cumin powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Dried oregano leaf, crushed
           Salt or garlic salt
        x  Water
 
  Place meat in a 3-quart saucepan  Add water to cover, onion, garlic,
  salt, oregano and cumin.  Bring to a boil; reduce heat. Cover and
  simmer 2 hours. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.  Drain meat, reserving
  broth for another use.  Place meat in a baking pan. Sprinkle meat
  evenly with salt or garlic salt.  Bake 45 minutes. Remove from oven.
  While still warm, use 2 forks to shred meat. Makes about 4 cups of
  shredded meat. Serve with fresh flour tortillas.  Add condiments as
  you choose, e.g., diced tomatoes, diced onions, fresh cilantro leaves
  and shredded cheese. Or, whip up some Pico de Gayo (sp).  That is two
  tomatoes diced, one half medium onion diced, three tablespoons of
  chopped fresh cilantro, one fresh jalapeno pepper (seeds too) and the
  juice of one-half nice size lime (not lemon). Mix these ingredients
  together real well - best if you let it set in the refrig for a few
  hours, covered.  Place your meat in the warm tortilla, topped by a
  couple spoons of Pico de Gayo.  I always like the Carnitas best when
  I squeeze a little lime juice right over the meat, before I add the
  Pico de Gayo.  Course, if 'ya want to, you can go ahead and ruin the
  whole thing by mashing up a nicely ripened avocado, and zapping a
  couple dabs if it right on top of the meat before adding the Pico de
  Gayo. (By now you should have guessed that whatever, 'ya must top of
  with Pico de Gayo.) A side plate of fresh fruits, with fresh lime
  juice squeezed over them goes real well with Carnitas.  Like
  pineapple, mangoes, kiwi fruit, seedless grapes, cantaloupes, mush
  melons etc.  The key with the fresh fruit is the fresh lime juice.
  Then too, if 'ya really want to spoil things 'ya might whip up a
  batch of re-fried pinto or pink beans. Lordy be, do enjoy yourself
  Debbie, and all others who take a stab at Carnitas!
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By SAM THOMPSON  SUBJ WANTED - CARNITAS     On
   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MICROWAVE CHEESE FLAN
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  SUGAR
     14 oz CAN SWEETENED CONDENSED MILK
      7 ea EGGS
      1 ts VANILLA
      3 tb WATER
     12 oz CAN EVAPORATED MILK
      8 oz PKG CREAM CHEESE
    1/8 ts CINNAMON
 
  IN 2 1/2 QT MICROWAVE SAFE GLASS DISH OR CASSEROLE (NOT PLASTIC) MIX
  SUGAR AND WATER UNTIL BLENDED.  MICROWAVE ON HIGH 4 MINUTES. CONTINUE
  COOKING, CHECKING EVERY 60 SECONDS, UNTIL MIXTURE JUST STARTS TO TURN
  AMBER. PUT REMAINING INGREDIENTS INTO A BLENDER. BLEND UNTIL SMOOTH.
  POUR INTO PREPARED DISH.  PLACE ON MICROWAVE SAFE TRIVET TO INVERTED
  PLATE. MICROWAVE UNCOVERED ON MEDIUM-HIGH FOR 24 MINUTES, ROTATING
  EVERY 8 MINUTES COOK UNTIL CUSTARD STARTS TO SET AND SHRINK AWAY FROM
  SIDES. CUSTARD WILL BE LOOSE IN CENTER BUT WILL FIRM UP UPON
  STANDING. COVER LOOSELY AND LET STAND AT LEAST 30 MINUTES OR UNTIL A
  KNIFE INSERTED IN CENTER COMES OUT CLEAN. TO UNMOLD, RUN A THIN KNIFE
  BETWEEN CUSTARD AND EDGE OF DISH. INVERT ON SERVING PLATE, LIFT
  BAKING DISH SLOWLY TO LET SYRUP RUN OUT AND FORM A POOL AROUND
  CUSTARD.  12 SERVINGS.  290 CALORIES---15 GRAMS FAT (THIS IS GOOD WAS
  BUT EVEN BETTTER AND RICHER WHEN SERVED COLD) Submitted By MEG
  ANTCZAK   On   07-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curry Powder III
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           "Although purists are
           -correct in saying that
           -there is no such thing as a
           Standardized curry powder
           -in Indian cuisine, there
           -are several good mixtures
           Of spices sold outside
           -India as "curry powder."
           -This is one version of such
 
  seasoning.  It is obviously fresher and, by intention, more delicate
  than any store-bought version. Make a small amount and adjust it to
  your taste. If you prefer a hot curry powder, add as many tiny dried
  hot peppers as you like to the pan with the whole spices to be
  toasted (first removing all their seeds), then grind them with the
  other spices. "Don't make a very large amount of curry powder at
  once, as the spice flavors tend to fade or become acrid if kept too
  long." Makes 1/2 c Optional, although recommended: 2 1/2 ts fenugreek
  20 med cardamom pods, or enough to produce 1 ts seeds (smack the pods
  with a meat pounder or flat side of a cleaver to crack them and
  release the seeds) 3 Tbs coriander seeds 1 Tb cumin seeds 1 Tb
  mustard seeds 6 whole cloves 1 thin cinnamon stick (2 to 3" long),
  broken into pieces 1/4 ts ground mace 1/4 ts grated nutmeg big pinch
  cayenne pepper 2 Tbs ground tumeric Optional: Toasted dried hot red
  peppers (see note above) or more cayenne to taste Preheat oven to
  225F. Combine the fenugreek, cardamom, coriander, cumin, and mustard
  seeds, cloves, and broken cinnamon in a small pan and bake for 15
  min, shaking the pan a few times. Let cool. Combine the toasted
  spices with the mace, nutmeg, cayenne, tumeric, and optional toasted
  peppers in a spice mill and grind to a powder.  Store airtight. From
  "Better Than Store-Bought" by Hellen Witty and Elizabeth Colchie.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By CHRIS BRADLEY  SUBJ INDIAN SPICES & RECIPES    On
  07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frosted Walnuts
 Categories: Candies, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Walnuts or pecans
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Nutmeg
 
  Mix sugar, sour cream, and spices.  Bring to a full boil. Continue
  boiling for 5 minutes.  Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. Add
  nuts and stir until mixture sugars.  Pour on wax paper, separate, and
  let cool completely.  Place in an air-tight container. Will keep up
  to 3 months (if no-one knows they exist, otherwise they last about 2
  days). Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three Bean and Spam Salad
 Categories: Spam, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
      1 cn (7 oz.) Spam, cubed
      1 cn Yellow wax beans drained
           -1 can kidney beans,
    1/3 c  Chopped onions
    1/3 c  Cooking oil
    1/4 ts Pepper

MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS------------------------------
      1 cn Cut green beans, drained
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
      1 tb Stoneground mustard
 
  In medium bowl combine Spam, green beans, wax beans, kidney beans and
  onion.  In small bowl combine remaining ingredients.  Pour over Spam
  mixture.  Stir gently, mixing thoroughly.  Cover, refrigerate 2 to 3
  hours or until serving time.  Makes 6 servings
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By BILL SWISHER  SUBJ SPAM!    On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Fried Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Unpeeled medium-size fresh
           - shrimp
    3/4 c  Pancake mix
    3/4 c  Beer
           Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Flaked coconut
 
  Peel shrimp, leaving tails intact; devein, if desired. Combine
  pancake mix and beer in a small bowl; stir until smooth.
  
  Pour oil to depth of 2 inches into a Dutch oven; heat to 350. Dredge
  shrimp in flour, shake off excess. Dip shrimp into batter, dredge in
  coconut. Fry, a few at a time, 45 seconds on each side or until
  golden. Drain on paper towels.
  
  Source: The Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. Cookbook typed by Judi Matthews,
  7/95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp and Noodle Bake
 Categories: Seafood, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Water
      2 lb Unpeeled large fresh shrimp
      1 pk Medium egg noodles (8-oz)
    1/2 c  Sliced green onions
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
      2 tb Butter or margarine, melted
      2 cn Cream of mushroom soup,
           - undiluted
      1    Carton (8-oz) plain yogurt
    1/2 c  Shredded cheddar cheese
           - (2 oz.)
  1 1/2 ts Chopped fresh dill
           -or-
    1/2 ts Dried dillweed
    1/2 ts Ground white pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Bring water to a boil; add shrimp, and cook 3 minutes or until shrimp
  begin to turn pink. Drain well; rinse with cold water. Chill. Peel
  and devein shrimp. Chop half of shrimp, leaving remaining shrimp
  whole. Set aside.
  
  Cook noodles according to directions. Drain.
  
  Cook green onions and green pepper in butter in a Dutch oven over
  medium-high heat, stirring constantly, until tender. Add soup and
  next 5 ingredients. Gently stir in chopped shrimp and noodles. Spoon
  mixture into a lightly greased shallow 2 1/2-qt. casserole. Arrange
  whole shrimp on top of casserole.
  
  Bake, uncovered, at 350 for 35 minutes or until thoroughly heated.
  
  Source: The Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. Cookbook Typed by Judi Matthews 7/95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Millionaire Stuffed Shrimp
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12    Unpeeled jumbo fresh shrimp
      6 c  Water
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 md Green pepper, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Celery, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine, melted
           - and divided
      1 lb Fresh lump crabmeat, drained
      1 lg Egg, lightly beaten
    3/4 c  Crushed Saltine crackers
    1/2 c  Mayonaise
      1 tb Prepared mustard
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
           Paprika
 
  Peel and devein shrimp, leaving tails intact; cut a slit almost
  through back of shrimp, using a paring knife. Open shrimp, and
  flatten. Bring water to a boil. Add shrimp; cook 1 minute. Drain;
  place in a shallow pan.
  
  Cook onion, green pepper, and celery in 1/4 cup butter in a skillet,
  stirring often, until tender. Combine crabmeat and next 6 ingredients
  in a bowl, stirring gently. Stir in vegetable mixture. Top each
  shrimp with 3 tablespoons crabmeat mixture; sprinkle with paprika.
  Drizzle 1/4 cup butter over top. Bake, uncovered, at 350 for 20
  minutes. Broil 5 1/2 inches from heat (with electric oven door
  partially opened) 6 minutes, basting twice with pan drippings.
  
  Source: The Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. Cookbook Typed by J Matthews
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Alabama-Style Shrimp Bake
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Butter or margarine, melted
    3/4 c  Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Salt
      1 tb Coarsely ground pepper
      1 ts Dried rosemary
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
      1 tb Hot sauce
      3    Garlic cloves, minced
  2 1/2 lb Unpeeled large or jumbo
           - shrimp
      2    Lemons, thinly sliced
      1 md Onion, thinly sliced
           Fresh rosemary sprigs
 
  Combine first 9 ingredients in a small bowl; set aside.
  
  Rinse shrimp with cold water; drain well. Layer shrimp, lemon slices,
  and onion slices in an ungreased 13x9x2-inch baking dish. Pour butter
  mixture over shrimp.
  
  Bake uncovered, at 400 for 20 to 25 minutes or until shrimp turn pink,
  basting occasionally with pan juices. Garnish with fresh rosemary
  sprigs, if desired.
  
  Source: The Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. Cookbook Typed by J Matthews
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Quickie
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Unpeeled large fresh shrimp
      1    Bottle (8-oz.) Italian
           - salad dressing
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine, melted
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
 
  Peel and devein shrimp, leaving tails intact. Combine Italian
  dressing and remaining ingredients in a 13x9x2-inch baking dish. Add
  shrimp, stirring well. Bake, uncovered, at 325 for 25 minutes or
  until shrimp turn pink, stirring occasionally.
  
  Source: The Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. Cookbook Typed by J Matthews
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Dijonnaise
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    3/4 lb Unpeeled large fresh shrimp
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine, melted
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Dijon mustard
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      8    Garlic cloves, minced
 
  Peel and devein shrimp, leaving tails intact. Combine lemon juice and
  remaining ingredients in a shallow dish; add shrimp, stirring well.
  Cover and chill 4 hours.
  
  Place shrimp on a greased rack of a broiler pan. Broil 5 1/2 inches
  from heat (with electric oven door partially open) 4 minutes or until
  shrimp turn pink.
  
  Source: The Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. Cookbook Typed by Judi Matthews
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Pheasant with Rice
 Categories: Game, Main dish, Meats, Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Pheasants (2.5 lbs. each)
      1 tb Salt
  1 1/2 c  Long-grain rice
      3 c  ;Water
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Finely chopped celery
      3 tb Minced onion
    1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1 ds Crushed sage
      1 ds Crushed thyme
      1 ds Crushed savory
      1 tb Butter
    1/2    Glass of currant jelly
    1/2    Lemon; juice of
      1 ds Cayenne pepper
    1/2 c  ;Water
      3    Whole cloves
           Salt; to taste
    1/2 c  Port wine
           Melted butter
      6 sl Bacon
 
  Rub cavity of pheasants with 1 tb. salt.  Brown rice in a dry frying
  pan. Remove rice to a saucepan; add water and 1 tsp. salt and cook
  until tender.
  
  Melt butter in frying pan.  Add celery, onion and mushrooms and cook
  until slightly wilted.  Add to cooked rice; add herbs.  Stuff birds
  lightly; sew together and truss.
  
  Make sauce by combining 1 tb. butter, currant jelly, lemon juice,
  cayenne, 1/2 cup water, cloves and salt.  Simmer for a few minutes;
  strain and add wine.  Add meat drippings, if desired.
  
  Brush birds with butter; place strips of bacon across breasts.  Roast
  in a covered pan at 350 F. for about 2 hours, or until tender, basting
  frequently with sauce.
  
  Yield: 2 to 4 servings.
  
  From _Our Best Recipes_ by Lena E. Sturges, Food Editor.  Birmingham,
  AL: Oxmoor House, Inc., 1970.  Pg. 192.  Library of Congress Catalog
  Number 70-140493.  Electronic format by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with Ramps and Wild Mushrooms
 Categories: Game, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    2 1/4 lb. farm-raised or
           -wild, ready-to-roast
           -pheasant; split in half
     12    Ramps (both white bulbs and
           - green leaves)
      1 tb Butter; melted
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground black pepper
     10    Fresh morels or other wild
           -mushrooms
      2 ts Fresh thyme leaves or
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
    1/2 c  Dry white wine

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
 
  	   Fresh thyme sprigs with 	 -flowers (opt'l.)
  
  Heat oven to 350 F.  Rinse pheasant and pat dry.  Remove any excess
  fat from body and neck cavities.
  
  Thoroughly rinse ramps; pat dry.  Cut white bulbs from green leaves of
  ramps.  Slice green ramp leaves lengthwise; set aside.  Place bulbs
  in 8" baking pan.  Place pheasant halves, skin sides up, on top of
  bulbs. Brush with melted butter; sprinkle with salt and pepper. Roast
  40 to 50 minutes or until fork-tender.
  
  Remove pheasant from baking pan to 2 plates; keep warm.  Meanwhile, in
  small skillet, combine mushrooms and thyme with drippings from baking
  pan. Saute until mushrooms soften - 3 to 5 minutes.  Stir white wine
  and ramp leaves into mushroom mixture; cook 3 to 5 minutes.  With
  slotted spoon, remove mushroom mixture to plates with pheasant.
  Remove and discard any excess fat from liquid in skillet; serve
  liquid as sauce with pheasant. Garnish pheasant with thyme sprigs,if
  desired.
  
  Nutritional information per serving: 67 g protein; 33 g fat; 18 g
  carbohydrate; 3 g fiber; 721 mg sodium; 228 mg cholesterol; 677
  calories.
  
  Hayes writes: "Ramps (allium tricoccum) are wild leeks.  In early
  spring, their broad green leaves and oniony aroma permeate fields and
  forest floors in the eastern half of North America as far south as
  Georgia. Morels are one of the few mushrooms that have defied
  cultivation. As a result, they are available only from early spring
  through early summer and can be very expensive."
  
  From Joanne L. Hayes's "The Wild Things" article in "Country Living."
  April 1995, Vol. 18, No. 4.  Pp. 154, 156.  Electronic format by
  Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mediterran Tomato Soup with Pasta
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables, Vegetarian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Olive Oil
      1 lg Onion, minced
  2 1/2 lb Ripe tomatoes, cut in large
           Dice
      4 lg Garlic cloves, chopped
      2 c  Chicken stock or any broth
  1 1/4 c  Water
  1 1/4 ts Dried leaf oregano crumbled
           Salt and freshly ground
           Pepper to taste
      1 c  Small pasta, such as thimble
           Shaped ditali (salad
           Macaroni)
      2 tb Coarsely chopped fresh basil
           Bowl of freshly grated
           Parmesan cheese (for serving
           If desired)
 
  Heat olive oil in a large saucepan over medium-low heat.  Add onion
  and cook, stirring occasionally, about 12 minutes or until soft but
  not brown. Add tomatoes, garlic, stock, water, oregano, salt, and
  pepper; bring to a boil.  Cover and cook over low heat 45 minutes.
  
  Puree soup in a food mill; or puree in a food processor and strain,
  pressing so pulp goes through strainer.  (Soup can be kept, covered,
  2 days in a refrigerator.)  Return soup to saucepan and reheat.  If
  soup appears thin, simmer uncovered 2-3 minutes to thicken slightly.
  
  Bring a medium saucepan of water to a boil and add salt.  Just before
  serving add pasta and cook uncovered over high heat, stirring
  occasionally, 5-8 minutes or until tender but firm to the bite.
  Drain well. Add to soup.
  
  Stir in 1 tablespoon basil.  Taste and adjust seasoning.  Sprinkle
  with remaining 1 tablespoon basil.  Serve with parmesan cheese, if
  desired.
  
  NOTE: Made this only when you have very ripe tomatoes - they are the
  soul of this soup while the ditali, or pasta thimbles, give it body.
  The soup is relatively easy to prepare because there is no need to
  peel or seed the tomatoes.   After cooking, they are pureed in either
  a food mill or food processor.  A garnish of tomato slices nad basil
  sprigs looks very attractive.
  
  This recipe came from a friends pasta cookbook.  It is great!!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: JIM'S FAVORITE BBQ PORK SOAKIN' SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  White vinegar
  1 1/2 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Water
      1 lg Yellow onion; dice & saute
      4 lg Garlic cloves; mince & saute
    1/2 c  Brown sugar; packed
      2    Whole fresh lemon; sliced
           -with peel and pulp removed
      1 lg Bay leaf
    3/4 ts Red pepper flakes
    3/4 ts Ground black pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Vegetable salad oil
      4 tb Water
  1 1/2 c  Chili sauce
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Soy sauce; (optional)
      1 tb Dry mustard
 
    This sauce is added to boston butt pork right off the grill and
  shredded for BBQ sandwiches.  About 30 minutes before mealtime, add
  enough sauce to the pork for it to "puddle" slightly around the meat.
    Put all, except for last 5 ingredients, in a 3 quart covered sauce
  pan and simmer for 1 hour.  Remove pan from heat and add remaining
  ingredients. Mix well, recover, and set aside for at least 2 hours
  allowing flavors to blend.
   *If desired, some of the sauce may be prepared extra "spicy" for use
  at the table to enhance the BBQ sandwich flavor. Put 3/4 cup of the
  sauce in a separate saucepan, add an additional 1/4 ts red pepper
  flakes and simmer for 15 minutes.  Remove from heat and add another
  1/2 ts dry mustard (make a paste with a tad bit of cold water). Put
  in a small pouring pitcher and pass around table.  Be sure to have
  enough cold beer to go with this sauce.
   The sauces will stay fresh for 2 weeks under refrigeration - just
  long enough for seconds on that butt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED RED ONIONS
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4 ea Medium red onion
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Olive oil
    3/4 ts Pepper
 
  Cut 1/4-inch slice off top and bottom of each onion and discard. Cut
  onions in half crosswise.  Arrange onions in single layer in shallow
  dish. Whisk Worcestershire, vinegar, soy sauce and oil in bowl. Pour
  over onions and let stand at room temperature 1 hour, basting
  occasionally.
  
  Prepare barbecue (medium-high heat).  Arrange onions on grill. Cover
  grill and cook onions until brown, basting occasionally, about 4
  minutes per side.  Using large spatula, transfer onions to platter.
  Season with pepper. Recipe from the July 1992 issue of Bon Appetit.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MEMPHIS IN MAY BBQ SAUCE
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 tb Salt
      6 tb Black pepper
      6 tb Chili powder
      4 c  Ketchup
      4 c  White vinegar
      4 c  Water
      1 lg Yellow onion; diced
    1/2 c  Sorghum molasses
 
  BBQ SAUCE DIRECTIONS:
  
  Combine all ingredients in a large saucepan.  Bring to a rolling boil,
  reduce heat and simmer for 1-1/2 hours, stirring every 10 minutes or
  so. Pour into steralized jars, seal and let stand for 2 to 6 weeks
  before using.
   Makes 62 oz. sauce.
  
  1991 Memphis in May contest.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BBQ - WINNER 1991 WORLD BBQ COOKING CONTEST
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------DRY RUB-------------------------------
      4 ts Paprika
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Onion powder
      2 ts Ground black pepper
      1 ts Cayenne

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      6 tb Salt
      6 tb Black pepper
      6 ts Chili powder
      4 c  Ketchup
      4 c  White vinegar
      4 c  Water
      1    Large yellow onion; diced
    1/2 c  Sorghum molasses
 
  DRY RUB DIRECTIONS: Mix in jar, cover and shake well to mix. Sprinkle
  rub liberally on ribs.Allow to stand 20 to 30 minutes at room
  temperature until rub appears wet.
   RIB SMOKING DIRECTIONS: Prepare smoker for long, slow cooking using
  hickory chips for flavor. Cook ribs, bone side down at 230 degrees
  for 2 hours using indirect heat. Turn and cook 1 more hour.During
  last 15 minutes, baste with BBQ sauce diluted by 1/2 with water.
  Serve ribs with warm undiluted sauce on the side.
   BBQ SAUCE DIRECTIONS: Combine all ingredients in a large saucepan.
  Bring to a rolling boil, reduce heat and simmer for 1-1/2 hours,
  stirring every 10 minutes or so. Pour into steralized jars, seal and
  let stand for 2 to 6 weeks before using.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Elderberry Wine- Vin de Fleurs du Sareau
 Categories: Game, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ga Elderberries, ripe, washed
  2 1/2 ga Water
    1/4 lb Sugar
      1 ea Lemon, juice of
      1 ea Yeast, cake, or env dry
 
  Mash elderberries well in a large (5 gal) pot. Add water. Bring to a
  boil and simmer for 15 minutes. Slowly stir in sugar and lemon juice.
  After 15 more minutes at simmer, remove from heat and allow to cool
  enough to handle. Strain through collander, then through tea
  strainer, then through cloth into large container, a crock or
  plastic/glass water container. In a cup of LUKEWARM water dissolve
  the yeast. Pour into berries and cover well with cloth. Allow to
  ferment for 10 days. Next, carefully, so as to leave dregs on bottom,
  pour fermenting juice into gal. jugs. Cork tightly, store in cool,
  dark 3 months. Draw the wine from the sediment after 3 mos. No aging
  req'd. Source: Leon Soniat, New Orleans Times-Picayune 28 August 1980
  Recipe date: 08/28/80
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Dessert Wine
 Categories: Game, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 ea Oranges, Louisiana Naval
      2 ea Lemons
      5 qt Wine, dry white
      2 lb Sugar
      4 c  Brandy
      1 ea Vanilla bean
      1 ea Piece (1/2) orange rind, dry
 
  Grate the skins of the oranges and lemons and reserve. Quarter the
  fruit and place in a demi-john or other large container (crock or
  glass). Pour in the wine, then add the grated skins, sugar, brandy,
  vanilla bean and piece of dried orange rind. CLose off the jar and
  store in a cool dark place for 40 days. Strain through cloth and
  bottle. Serve chilled. Source: Leon Soniat, New Orleans
  Times-Picayune, 28 Aug 1980 Recipe date: 08/28/80
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aztec Punch *
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages
      Yield: 20 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 qt Tequila
  2 1/2 qt Grapefruit juice
      1 qt Dark tea
  1 1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Cinnamon
 
  When making strong tea for punch, it is better to use more tea bags
  than to let the tea steep longer. When tea steeps for a long time, it
  acquires a tannic acidity that may conflict with the other
  ingredients. Mix all the ingredients together. Serve over ice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Horny Bull *
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
  1 1/2 oz Tequila
      3 oz Orange juice
      1 oz Lemonade
    1/2 oz Grenadine
 
  Combine in a blender with ice and blend until firm. Garnish with
  orange wedge and cherry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Tea
 Categories: Beverages, Mixes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------SHARON MEHL - CFFM46A------------------------
      2 c  Sugar, granulated
      2 c  Tang
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Tea, instant
      6 oz Lemonade mix (powder)
    3/4 ts Cloves, powdered
 
    Put in jar and shake.
    Spoon about 1 1/2 to 2 teaspoons in mug and add hot water. Enjoy!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frosted Fruit Punch *
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Cinnamon stick
      3    Whole cloves
      2 c  Sauterne
     12 oz Apple juice
      1 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
           Orange sherbet
 
  Combine sugar, water, cinnamon and cloves. Bring to a boil, reduce
  heat and simmer, uncovered, for 5 minutes. Strain and cool. Mix all
  remaining ingredients except sherbet, with cinnamon mix. Chill well.
  Serve in glass topped with a spoonful of orange sherbet.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Knocker *
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
  1 1/2 oz Vodka
      2 tb Apple cider
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Strawberry liqueur
           Ice
 
  Combine all ingredients in a shaker; cover and shake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: No-hassle Wassail
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ga Apple cider
      2 qt Apricot nectar
      3 c  Dark rum
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar; firm pack
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      6    Sticks cinnamon; 3" each
      3 sm Oranges
  1 1/2 ts Whole cloves
 
  Combine cider, nectar, rum, brown sugar, lemon juice, and cinnamon
  sticks in a large Dutch oven. Bring to a boil; reduce heat, and
  simmer, uncovered, 1 hour. Stud oranges with cloves, and add to cider
  mixture. Serve hot. YIELD: 1-1/2 gallons
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old Virginia Wassail
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      2 qt Sweet apple cider
      2 c  Orange juice
      1 c  Lemon juice
      4 c  Pineapple juice
           Sugar to taste
      1    Stick of cinnamon
      1 ts Whole cloves
 
  Combine apple cider, orange juice, lemon juice, pineapple juice and
  sugar in stainless steel percolator. Place cinnamon and cloves in
  percolator basket; perk 18-20 minutes. YIELD: Serves 30 when using
  4-ounce cups of Old Virginia Wassail.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kahlua Party Punch *
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Kahlua
     12 oz Apple juice concentrate
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
     25 oz Apple juice
      1    5th Dry champagne
      1 qt Lemon-lime soda OR
           - Club soda
           Ice
           Lemon slices
           Orange slices
 
  Chill all ingredients well. Combine kahlua with undiluted apple juice
  concentrate and lemon juice. Pour over a small chunk of ice in punch
  bowl. Add sparkling apple juice, soda and champagne; stir gently.
  Garnish with thin lemon and orange slices. Makes 30, 1/2 cup servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Buttered Cider
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      7 c  Apple cider OR apple juice
    1/3 c  Brown sugar; packed
           4" stick cinnamon
      1 ts Whole allspice
      1 ts Whole cloves
      1    Lemon peel; cut into strips
  1 1/2 c  Rum
           Butter or margarine
           Thin apple slices
 
  Combine apple cider or apple juice and brown sugar in a large
  saucepan. For spice bag, tie cinnamon, allspice, cloves, and lemon
  peel in a 7 inch square of 100 percent cotton cheesecloth. Add spice
  bag to cider mixture. Bring cider mixture to boiling. Reduce heat and
  simmer, covered, for 15 minutes. Remove and discard spice bag. Stir
  in rum. Pour cider mixture into mugs. Float about 1/2 tsp butter or
  margarine on each. Top each serving with one or two thin apple
  slices. Makes about 10 (6-oz) servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Knockers
 Categories: Alcohol, Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3    Cinnamon sticks
      2 ts Whole cloves
    1/2 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 ga Apple cider
      1 c  Sugar
      2 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Brandy (any fruit flavor)
 
  Tie cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg in cheesecloth. Simmer cider and
  sugar with spices for about 15 minutes. Remove bag of seasonings. Add
  orange juice, lemon juice and brandy. Heat to bubbling and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: NEGRONI COCKTAILS+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Beverages, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Gin
      1 c  Sweet italian vermouth
      1 c  Campari
      6    Lemon-peel twists
 
  NORTH SCOTTSDALE RD., SCOTTSDALE   Place a dozen ice cubes in a tall
  pitcher. Add the gin, vermouth, and Campari. Stir and chill. Serve
  over ice in Old-Fashioned glasses; garnish with twists of lemon peel.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Juice Cooler - GBDP78B
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    6 1/2 oz Bottoed Water
      1    12 oz.Can-Peach Nector
    1/2 c  Orange Juice
    1/4 c  Grapefruit Juice
      2 tb Lemon Juice
 
   Combine all ingredients in a large pitcher ;mix well. Pour over Ice
  Cubes in Tall Serving Glasses . Serve right away. 68 calories per 1
  glass serving. GBDP78B . Enjoy ,John
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GLUEHWEIN
 Categories: Beverages, Aust/german, Alcohol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     32 oz Dry red wine
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Spiral orange peel
           Stick cinnamon
      4    Cloves
      8 tb Sugar
    1/3 c  Rum
 
  Combine wine, juice, peel, cinnamon, cloves and 4 Tbl sugar in
  saucepan. Simmer 8-10 minutes; strain into punch bowl. Heat rum
  slightly. Place remaining sugar in large metal spoon or ladle. Light
  rum with a match; pour over sugar. Pour burning sugar over punch.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Spice Tea ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Beverages
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 c  Warm Water
      3 ts Honey
      2    Slice Lemon
      2    1" Stick Cinnamon, Broken
      2    Tea Bag
           Lemon Slice (Opt.)
 
  In a nonmetal mug combine water, honey, lemon slice, and cinnamon.
  Micro-cook mixture, uncovered, on 100% power about 1 1/2 minutes or
  just till steaming hot.  Add tea bag.  Cover and steep for 4 minutes.
  Remove tea bag, lemon slice, and cinnamon.  Garnish with an
  additional lemon slice, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Buttered Rum ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Brown Sugar
      2 ts Butter Or Margarine,Softened
           Dash Ground Cinnamon
           Dash Ground Nutmeg
    3/4 c  Warm Water
      3 tb Rum
           Lemon Slices (Optional)
 
  In a nonmetal mug stir together the brown sugar, butter or margarine,
  cinnamon and nutmeg.  Stir in the warm water.  Micro-cook, uncovered,
  on 100% power for 1 to 1 1/2 minutes or till steaming hot.  Stir in
  the rum. Garnish with lemon slices, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGEADE
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Makes 1-1/2 Quarts
    1/4 c  Honey
      4 c  Water
      2 c  Orange Juice
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice
           Orange (Thinly Sliced)
           Ice Cubes
 
  Dissolve honey in water in a large pitcher.  Add orange slices.  Fill
  pitcher with ice cubes; stir.
  From Sheila Buff & Judi Olstein, "The New Mixer's Guide to
  Low-Alcohol & Non-Alcoholic Drinks." Published By HPBooks, Inc.,
  1986, ISBN 0-89586-458-4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC LEMONADE
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Makes 2-1/2 Quarts
      6    Lemons
      1 c  Sugar
      8 c  Ice Water
      1 c  Boiling Water
 
  Squeeze juice from lemons into a bowl.  Set lemon rinds aside; strain
  lemon juice into a large pitcher.  Add sugar and ice water; stir
  until sugar is dissolved.  Set aside.  Place lemon rinds in a bowl
  and add boiling water. Let stand until water is cold.  Discard rinds,
  add water to picher and stir well.  Refridgerate until well chilled.
  From Sheila Buff and Judi Olstein, "The New Mixer's Guide to
  Low-Alcohol & Nonalcoholic Drinks." Published By HPBooks, Inc., 1986,
  ISBN 0-89586-458-4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOUTHERN-STYLE ICED TEA
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 16 servings
 
           Makes 4 Quarts
    128 oz Water
     10 x  Teabags
           Cinnamon Stick
           Lemon (Sliced)
      4 c  Sugar
 
  Place water in a large saucepan.  Bring to a boil and add teabags,
  cinnamon stick and lemon slices.  Reduce heat to low, cover losely
  and simmer 20 minutes.  Remove from heat, add sugar and stir until
  sugar is dissolved. Remove teabags, cinnamon stick and lemon slices.
  Pour tea into a large jug and refridgerate until well chilled.
  From Sheila Buff & Judi Olstein, "The New Mixer's Guide to
  Low-Alcohol & Nonalcoholic Drinks". Published by HPBooks, Inc., 1986,
  ISBN 0-89586-458-4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ESPRESSO ROMANO
 Categories: Beverages, Italian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 c  Finely Ground Coffee
  1 1/2 c  Cold Water
      2    Strips Lemon Peel
 
  Fill filter section of a steamed-pressure coffeepot with water. Place
  filter in base and screw on top portion of coffeepot.  Heat over
  medium heat until coffee begins to bubble into top portion.  Reduce
  heat to low and simmer until bubbling stops.  Serve immediately.
  Garnish with lemon peel.
  From Sheila Buff & Judi Olstein, "The New Mixer's Guide to
  Low-Alcohol and Nonalcholic Drinks." Published By HPBooks, Inc.,
  1986, ISBN 0-89586-458-4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CITRUS TEA COOLER
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 ts Bags or 1 tbsp loose black
           -tea
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
      1    Bottle (28 oz) lemon-lime
           -carbonated beverage or
           -gingerale
           Chilled
    3/4    To 1 cup sugar
      1    Tray ice cubes
    1/2 c  Fresh orange juice
 
  From: Arizona Cookbook
  
  Place tea bags or loose tea in bowl. Pour boiling water over tea. Let
  stand 5 minutes. Remove bags or strain to remove leaves. Add sugar
  and stir until all is dissolved. Plae ice cubes in 2-quart serving
  pitcher. Pour hot tea, lemon and orange juice over tea. Stir briskly
  several seconds until mixture is cold. Stir in chilled lemon-lime
  carbonated beverage. Pour into glasses and serve at once. Makes 2 qts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spritzer
 Categories: Fruit, Beverages, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------LIZ VXRF36B-----------------------------
      2 c  Pureed peaches = 1 cup
           Crushed ice
      1    Bottle white wine; = 750 ml
     12 oz Lemon lime soda
 
  Divide peach puree among 4 tall glasses. Fill glass with crushed. Add
  wine and soda. Serve immediately. Yields 4 servings; each setving:
  200 calories.
  
  The Tampa Tribune, 07/15/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ha Rageel
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------VULCAN CARROT LOAF--------------------------
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
  1 1/2 c  Carrots; grated
      1    Grated rind & juice of lemon
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Dark brown sugar
      3    Eggs; large
      2 tb Water
      1 c  Golden raisins
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
           Confectioners sugar
 
  Note: It has never ceased to amuse Dr. McCoy that Mr. Spock, with all
  his logical training, cannot consider Ha Rageel a close equivalent to
  Tufeen Hushani. Actually, to the logical Vulcan mind, a ceremonial
  wedding cake is quite unrelated to an "everyday" dessert loaf. It is
  quite true that they contain many of the same ingredients and have a
  somewhat similar taste. But this no more makes them related than the
  same number of eyes and legs makes first cousins of horses and dogs.
  To a cook the difference is also important. Preparing the wedding
  cake requires time, attention, and care to avoid a minor disaster;
  with Ha Rageel you can hardly go wrong.
    Preheat the oven to 350. Grease a 2-quart ring mold with a little
  butter.
    Peel the carrots and grate them. Grate the yellow rind off the
  lemon, using the coarse set of teeth on your grater. Leave enough of
  the white inner rind so that you can squeeze the lemon for its juice
  when you are done grating.
    Cream the butter and sugar together until the mixture is somewhat
  light colored. Add the eggs, mix well, then add the carrots, lemon
  juice and rind, water and raisins.
    In a smaller bowl mix together the dry ingredients, exept the
  confectioners sugar, and add them to the liquid part a bit at a time.
  When it is well mixed, pour the batter into the greased mold. Bake
  for about 40 minutes, or until a knife or skewer stuck into it comes
  out clean. Let it cool for about 5 minutes, unmold on a serving plate
  and dust with confectioners sugar.
    Note: If you dust the plate with a little confectioners sugar
  before you unmold the cake onto it, the cake will tend to stick to it
  less.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Berena--Klingon Gingerbread
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Margarine
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Dark molasses
      1 c  Boiling water
  2 1/3 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Ginger
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Cloves
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda

MMMMM---------------------FOR WHIPPED CREAM--------------------------
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Lemon extract
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease and flour a ring mold or baking
  dish (9x9). Mix together the margarine and sugar in a large bowl. Add
  the egg and beat it in well. Next, stir in the molasses. Then measure
  the boiling water in the molasses measuring cup and add it to the
  mixture, stirring well. Measure all tahe dry ingredients into a small
  bowl, starting with the flour and ending with the baking soda. Stir
  all the dry ingredients together,then mix thoroughly into the liquid.
  Pour immediately into the prepared ring mold. Bake for 40 to 45
  minutes, or until a skewer stuck into the cake comes out clean. If
  you are using a ring mold, let the cake cool for about 5 minutes,
  then unmold onto a plate. To make the whipped cream, put the chilled
  cream in a small chilled bowl, add the sugar and lemon extract and
  beat with an electric mixer until stiff. To serve put a dollop of
  whipped cream over each slice of warm cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tufeen Hushani
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------VULCAN WEDDING CAKE (CARROT---------------------
      6 oz Ground almonds
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cloves
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      6 oz Grated carrots
      1 tb Vulcan bitter nectar*
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
      1 tb Lemon juice
      5 tb Margarine
      6 oz Sugar; a bit more than 3/4 c
      5    Eggs
 
  *Dark Jamaican rum may be used. To be made as a wedding cake, many
  rituals would have to be performed during the making of the cake.
  This is a nonritual version. Sift the ground almonds and flour
  together to make a very fine mixture. Add the salt, spices and baking
  powder and mix well. In a separate bowl put the grated carrots and
  the nectar. Add the lemon rind and juice. Cover and let stand. Cream
  the margarine and sugar together. Separate the eggs, putting the
  yolks in with the margarine and sugar and saving the whites for
  later. Beat the egg yolks in and then add the carrot mixture. Stir
  well and let sit for a few minutes. Beat the egg whites until soft
  peaks form, then set aside. Add the dry ingredients to the carrot
  mixture and mix well. You should have a thick batter. Now beat the
  egg whites a little more and fold the batter into the egg whites. Mix
  gently until it is just barely evenly mixed. Pour into a greased ring
  mold. Bake at 325 degrees for about 50 minutes. It is done when a
  skewer comes out clean. Take out of the oven and let cool for 5
  minutes. Unmold onto a serving plate dusted with confections sugar
  (this prevents the cake from sticking as much).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Roll ( Part 1 )
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Plus 2 Tbls cake flour;
           - sifted
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      6    Eggs; separated
      1 c  Superfine granulated sugar
  1 1/2 ts Lemon rind; grated
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1    Confectioners sugar

MMMMM--------------------SUPER LEMON FILLING-------------------------
    2/3 c  Sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
    2/3 c  Water
      2    Egg yolks; slightly beaten
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Lemon rind; grated
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Butter a 15x10x1 jelly roll pan, line with wax paper, butter paper.
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt onto wax paper. Beat the egg
  whites in a medium bowl with electric mixer on high speed until
  frothy. Add 1/2 cup of the sugar, 1 Tablespoon at a time, beating
  until the meringue forms stiff, glossy peaks. Beat the egg yolks in a
  small bowl with the electric mixer and the same beaters, without
  washing, until light. Add the remaining sugar 1 tablespoon at a time,
  beating until mixture is thick and creamy. Add lemon juice and rind.
  By hand, add the flour mixture gradually, beating until smooth. Fold
  egg mixture into meringue until no streaks of white remain. Spread
  batter evenly in prepared pan. Bake in a moderate oven 350~, for 15
  minutes or until cake springs back when lightly touched with
  fingertips. Cool in pan on wire rack 5 minutes. Invert pan on a clean
  cloth that has been generously sprinkled with confectioners sugar.
  Carefully peel off paper. Trim off any crispy edges then roll up with
  towel, starting at one of the short sides. Cool completely on wire
  rack. Unroll cooled cake; spread with Super Lemon Filling. Re-roll,
  then wrap firmly in wax paper, refrigerate until firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pudding Cake Roll
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
    3/4 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Double-acting baking powder
      4    Eggs
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      2 c  Skim or nonfat milk
      1    Env reduced-calorie vanilla
           -instant pudding mix
           -4  1/2-cup servings
      1 tb Confectioners sugar; sifted
           Grated lemon peel (garnish)
 
   Preheat oven to 400F. Spray 15x10 1/2 x 1" jelly roll pan with
  nonstick cooking spray. Line pan with sheet of wax paper and spray
  paper; set aside. Onto sheet of wax paper or a paper plate sift
  together flour and baking powder; set aside. Using electric mixer at
  high speed, in large mixing bowl, beat eggs until frothy; gradually
  beat in sugar, beating until thick and lemon colored and double in
  volume, about 2 minutes. Fold in flour mixture. Spread batter evenly
  in paper-lined pan and bake for 10 minutes (until cake springs back
  when lightly touched with fingers). Turn cake onto a kitchen towel;
  remove and discard wax paper. Starting at narrow end, roll cake with
  towel; set on wire rack and let cool. Using 2 cups milk, prepare
  pudding according to package directions. Unroll cooled cake, remove
  towel and spread pudding over surface of cake, leaving a 1/2" border.
  Reroll cake and place seam side down, on serving platter. Sprinkle
  with confectioners sugar. Loosely cover with plastic wrap and
  refrigerate until chilled, about 30 minutes; garnish with lemon peel.
   Each serving provides: 1/2 protein exchange; 1/2 bread exchange; 1/2
  milk exchange; 50 optional calories.
   Per serving: 150 calories; 6 g protein; 3 g fat; 24 g carbohydrate;
  118 mg calcium; 285 mg sodium; 138 mg cholesterol.
   From Weight Watchers magazine April 1989
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Pie Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Cake mix;yellow
      3    Eggs
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      1    Jar apple pie;filling
           Topping
    1/4 c  Butter;or marg.
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Flour
           Cinnamon(optional)
 
  Mix the Cake mix, eggs,lemon and Apple pie filling.Pour batter into a
  13x9 greased and floured baking dish. TOPPING Make topping with
  melted butter, or soft margerine, sugar and flour. Blend with a fork
  to make crumbs.Sprinkle the crumbs over top and sprinkle with
  cinnamon if desired. Bake 350 degrees for 45 minutes. Pat Empson
  05/21 07:08 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/21 7:34 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MRS FIELDS LEMON MACADAMIA COOKIES
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 36 servings
 
      2 c  FLOUR
    1/2 ts BAKING SODA
    1/4 ts SALT
      1 c  LT BROWN SUGAR,PACKED
    1/2 c  SUGAR
    1/2 c  BUTTER, SOFTENED
      4 oz CREAM CHEESE, SOFTENED
      1 lg EGG
      1 ts LEMON EXTRACT
  1 1/2 c  MACADAMIA NUTS, UNSALTED
 
    -PREHEAT OVEN TO 300* F. IN A MEDIUM BOWL COMBINE FLOUR, SODA AND
  SALT. MIX WELL AND SET ASIDE. IN A LARGE BOWL BLEND SUGARS WELL WITH
  AN ELECTRIC MIXER SET AT MED SPEED. ADD THE BUTTER AND CREAM CHEESE,
  AND MIX TO FORM A SMOOTH PASTE. ADD THE EGG AND LEMON EXTRACT, AND
  BEAT AT MEDIUM SPEED UNTIL LIGHT AND SOFT. SCRAPE DOWN SIDES OF BOWL
  OCCASIONALLY. ADD THE FLOUR MIXTURE AND NUTS. BLEND AT LOW SPEED JUST
  UNTIL COMBINED. DO NOT OVERMIX. DROP BY ROUNDED TABLESPOONS ONTO
  UNGREASED COOKIE SHEETS, 2 INCHES APART. BAKE 23-25 MIN. IMMEDIATELY
  TRANSFER TO A COOL FLAT SURFACE. YIELD APPROX 3 DOZEN
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/20 9:20 AM
  
  TO:      EVA ESTES   (BXGT29B) FROM: EVA ESTES (BXGT29B) SUBJECT: MM
  MEGA MRS. FIELDS
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mrs Fields' Apple Oatmeal Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 48 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 c  Quick oats (not instant)
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Cloves
      2 ts Grated lemon zest
      1 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
    3/4 c  Butter
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Unsweetened applesauce
    1/2 c  Honey
      1 c  Fresh apple, peeled and
           Finely chopped (1 med apple)
      1 c  Raisins (6 oz)
           Topping:
    1/2 c  Quick oats
 
     Preheat oven to 300*F.
      In a medium bowl combine flour, oats, salt, soda, cinnamon,
  cloves and lemon zest. Mix well and set aside. Cream sugar and butter
  together in a large bowl using an electric mixer. Add egg, applesauce
  and honey and beat at medium speed until smooth.  Add the flour
  mixture, fresh apple and raisins, and blend at low speed until just
  combined. Dough will be quite soft.  Drop by rounded tablespoons onto
  ungreased baking sheets, 1 1/2 inches apart.  If you wish, sprinkle
  cookies with oats. Bake 23-25 minutes or until bottoms are golden.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Walnut Triangles
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      2    Rome Beauty apples; peeled,
           - finely chopped
    1/2 c  Pine nuts -OR- walnuts;
           - light toasted, fine choped
           Grated peel of 1 lemon
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
      5    Phyllo sheets; frozen, thaw
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter; melted
           Powdered sugar; sifted (opt)
 
  Combine apples, nuts, lemon peel, sugar and nutmeg in a medium bowl.
  Mix well to blend flavors; set aside. Unroll phyllo dough sheets. Cut
  dough lengthwise into 2" wide strips. Place on waxed paper over damp
  towels. Cover all dough strips except 2 of them. Brush the 2 strips
  with the melted butter. Place about 2 teaspoons of the filling in the
  center of each strip, about 1" from the top edge. Fold one corner of
  each strip over filling. Fold over again like a flag, till entire
  strip is folded. Place on buttered 10x15" pan with sides. Repeat with
  remaining filling and phyllo strips. Brush folded pastries, top and
  bottom, with melted butter. Bake at 350~ for 20-25 minutes or until
  golden. Cool on wire rack. Sprinkle with sifted powdered sugar if
  desired.
   Pat Empson 05/21 07:17 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/21 7:34 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Praline Bell
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Nancy Speicher DPXX20A
      1 c  Blanched almonds
  1 1/3 c  Granulated sugar
    2/3 c  Light-brown sugar; packed
    1/3 c  Honey
    1/3 c  -cold water
      6 tb Butter
      1    Lemon; cut in half
 
   1. Preheat oven to 300F. Butter inside of 9", 10-cup decorative
  mold; or use a 10-cup bowl. Grease a large cookie sheet. On another
  cookie sheet, toast almonds until golden brown - about 20 minutes. In
  blender or food processor, grind almonds (makes 1 1/2 cups).
   2. In a heavy, 3-quart saucepan, combine granulated sugar, brown
  sugar, honey and water. Cook, stirring with a wooden spoon, until
  sugar is dissolved.
   3. Cook, uncovered and without stirring, to 300F on candy
  thermometer, or until a few drops of syrup in cold water form hard,
  brittle threads.
   4. Remove from heat; add butter and ground almonds.
   5. Pour into prepared cookie sheet. Using the 2 lemon halves and
  working quickly, smooth out and push from the center to the edge of
  the cookie sheet until the brittle is 1/8" thick.
   6. Lift brittle off the sheet before it is completely cooled and
  hardened, and mold it against the inside of prepared mold.
   7. Cool completely - about 2 hours. Unmold just before it is to be
  served.
   8. To unmold: With spatula, carefully loosen candy from pan; remove.
  Makes 1 large bell.
   Note: Leftover pieces can be kept in a closed jar at room
  temperature, or wrapped in aluminum foil.
   From McCalls Cookery No. 13
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Bourbon Sauce
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Desserts, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 32 servings
 
    1/3 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Bourbon
      4 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    3/4 ts Lemon rind,grated
 
  1. Combine sugar and cornstarch in small saucepan; stir in water.
  2. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture boils and thickens.
  3. Remove from heat; stir in butter untuil melted.
  4. Add bourbon, lemon rind and juice; mix well.
  until fish flakes easily.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC FRUIT SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Fruit juice
      1 pn Cream of tartar
    1/4 c  Sugar
           - if juice is unsweetened
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Arrowroot or cornstarch
      2 tb Fruit juice; cold
 
  This fruit sauce is one of the basics. It can be served on ice cream
  or with a pastry.
  
  COMBINE first amount of juice, cream of tartar, sugar and lemon juice
  in a saucepan and bring to boil. Mix arrowroot with the rest of cold
  fruit juice. Add to boiling juice. Cook until clear and slightly
  thickened. Serve hot or cold.
  
  Makes 1 1/4 Cup
  
  PETER KUMP - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON GRANITA
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Italian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Freshly squeezed lemon juice
 
  PLACE A NON-REACTIVE roasting pan or gratin dish in the freezer. Bring
  sugar and water to a boil in a saucepan, stirring occasionally to
  dissolve sugar. Cool the syrup. Stir in the lemon juice and pour
  through a fine strainer to eliminate any seeds or pulp. Pour into the
  prepared pan and return to the freezer. When the mixture starts to
  freeze, stir every 10 minutes or so, scraping the frozen mixture from
  the bottom and sides of the pan and mixing it with the
  as-yet-unfrozen mixture. When there is no longer any unfrozen liquid
  in the pan, pack the granita into a chilled container and press
  plastic wrap against the surface. Serve within a few hours for best
  texture. If the granita freezes to a solid block, pop it out of the
  container and cut into thick slices with a stainless steel knife.
  Chop the slices finely, replace in the container and freeze until
  serving time. Serve the granita in chilled stem glasses. Substitute
  lime or grapefruit juice for distinctly different flavors.
  
  Makes 1 Quart
  
  NICK MALGIERI - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruits Afire
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Canned pears
      1 lb Canned whole apricots
      1 lb Canned Bing cherries
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Cinnamon stick
    1/2 c  Apricot preserves
      6 tb Rum
 
  Drain pears, aprictos and cherries, reserving syrup. Combine syrups
  in a saucepan with lemon juice, cinnamon stick, apricot preserves and
  2 tb of the rum. Bring to a boil and cook until reduced by half.
  Remove cinnamon stick and pour over fruits. Refrigerate until about
  30 minutes before serving. Place fruit and syrup in an oven proof
  casserole. Cover casserole and heat in a 350~F oven just until fruit
  is hot, about 5 minutes. Warm remaining 4 tb rum. At the table,
  ignite the rum and pour flaming over the fruit. Serve when flames
  have died out.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry-Beaujolais Sorbet
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Ice cream, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Frozen raspberries; thawed
    1/2 c  Water
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Beaujolias -OR-
           - other dry red wine
    1/4 c  Whipping cream
 
  Combine raspberries and water in container of a food processor or
  blender; process until smooth. Pour mixture through a wire-mesh
  strainer, pressing raspberries with back of spoon against the sides
  of the strainer to squeeze out juice. Discard pulp and seeds
  remaining in strainer. Return to blender; add sugar and remaining
  ingredients, and process 1 minute. Pour mixture into a 9" square pan;
  freeze until almost firm. Break mixture into chunks, and place in a
  large mixing bowl; beat at low speed with an electric mixer until
  smooth. Return to pan, and freeze until firm. Yields 3 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jailbird Souffle
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Water; cold
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs; separated
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Heavy cream
 
  Put water in bowl of food processor, sprinkle gelatin over water and
  soak 10 minutes. Heat lemon juice, turn on processor, add lemon
  juice, and turn off. Add sugar, egg yolks and vanilla; process 5
  minutes. Scrape sides; let mixture cool. Whip cream; fold into lemon
  mixture. Beat egg white until stiff but not dry. Fold into mixture.
  Pile into 1-quart souffle dish with a waxed paper collar held on with
  masking tape. Smooth top. Refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight.
  To serve, carefully remove collar, decorate with Whipped cream
  rosettes around edge of top and in center. Garnish with a twisted
  lemon slice and mint leaves if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Antique Apples
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Water
      2    Regular tea bags
      1 c  Sugar
        pn Cinnamon and ginger
      2    Strips lemon zest
      3 lb Golden delicious -OR-
           - gravenstien apples
    1/2 c  Orange marmalade
      2 tb Triple sec
      4    Lemon slices for garnish
 
  Bring 4 cups of water to boil. Remove from heat add tea bags, sugar,
  spices and lemon zest. Let stand about 5 minutes. Peel, core, and
  quarter apples. Remove tea bags and bring liquid to boil again. Cook
  apples in liquid about 5 minutes or just til cooked through. Remove
  with slotted spoon and place in serving dish to cool. In small pan,
  combine marmalade and liqueur, bring to simmer,stirring well. Pour
  over apples, garnish with the quartered lemon slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Torte
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------ALANA JANUS NDWH61A-------------------------
      1 pk Cookies, 5-1/2 oz pkg,
           Pepperidge Farm Lemon Crunch
           -finely crushed
      3 oz Butter; melted
      4    Egg whites
      1 c  Sugar
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Lemon juice, fresh
  1 1/2 tb Lemon peel; finely grated
  1 1/2 c  Heavy cream; whipped
      1 pk Raspberries, frozen, 10 oz;
           Thawed
 
  CRUST: Combine crushed cookies with melted butter. Pat into bottom of
  a 9" springform pan. Refrigerate.
  
  LEMON FILLING: Beat egg whites until foamy. Gradually add sugar and
  beat until stiff peaks form. Beat yolks in another bowl until thick
  and lemon-colored. Stir in lemon juice and peel. Gently fold in egg
  whites. Fold in whipped cream. Pour into crust and freeze. RASPBERRY
  SAUCE: Puree thawed frozen raspberries. Pour through a strainer into
  a serving bowl.
  
  Let torte stand at room temperature for 10 minutes. Remove springform.
  Slice and serve with raspberry sauce.
  
  Reformatted by: Wendell Openshaw SRNP05A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Supreme Chiffon
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     24    Graham crackers; crushed
    1/4 c  Butter; melted
    1/4 c  Sugar
           Juice of 2 lemons
      6    Eggs; separated
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 lg Lemon Jello
      2 c  Water; boiling
      1 c  Whipping cream
      3 tb Sugar
 
  Mix graham cracker crumbs with the butter and 1/4 c sugar. Spread
  half of this mixture on bottom of a 9x13" loaf pan. Mix the Jello,
  water and lemon juice. Chill until partially set. Beat egg whites
  stiffly and add the 2/3 c sugar. Set aside. Beat egg yolk and add to
  Jello mixture, mixing throughly. Fold in beaten egg whites. Pour over
  crumb mixture in pan. Whip the cream, adding 3 T sugar gradually.
  Spread over Jello mixture. Top with remaining crumb mixture.
  Refrigerate serveral hours before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Oat Crisp
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - Marne Parry PKKW92A
      3 sm Apples; cored & sliced
    1/2 c  Applesauce
    1/2 ts Lemon rind
  1 1/2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Cinnamon

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 oz Quick oats
      2 tb Whole wheat flour
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      1 tb & 1 tsp. diet margarine
 
  :       Mix the base mix in an 8" baking dish. Combine the topping
  mix and crumble over the apples. Bake 350, 35-40 minutes. Exchanges:
  1/2 bread, 1/2 fat, 1 fruit, 35 calories. Source: Weight Watchers
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crazy Berry Blue Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    9 inch crumb crust
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
      1 cn Eagle Brand condensed milk
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Sour cream
  2 1/2 c  Blueberry pie filling
 
  Put water and gelatin in small saucepan.  Place over direct heat and
  stir until dissolved or mixture is clear. In medium size bowl,
  combine, condensed milk and lemon juice. Stir in gelatin mixture.
  Fold in sour cream.  Mix in 1-1/4 cups of the pie filling. Turn into
  crust. Refrigerate 2 to 3 hours.  Then garnish pie top with remaining
  chilled pie filling.
   Pat Empson 05/25 10:01 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/25 10:09 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM-MIXED BAG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple-Go-Round
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts, Diabetic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Apple (firm)
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Raisins
      1 tb Celery
      2 tb Applesauce
      1    Lettuce leaf (optional)
 
  Slice off top of apple;  remove core.  Prick outside with sharp fork.
  Place apple in tall narrow bowl. Combine orange and lemon juice; pour
  over apple. (Add extra water if apple is not covered.) Marinate in
  refrigerator 4-5 hours.  Combine raisins, celery, and applesauce.
  Allow to mellow at room temperature 2 hours. Chill thoroughly. Drain
  apple. Cut apple into 8 sections, slicing almost to the bottom.  Fill
  with applesauce mixture. Place on crisp lettuce leaf. 1 serving = 2
  fruit calories = 54 Pat Empson 05/21 07:13 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/21 7:34 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mapley Ohio Apples
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Tart Juicy Apples
      6 tb Light Brown Sugar
      1 tb Cinnamon
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      1 c  Nuts; chopped
    3/4 c  Pure Maple Syrup
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Core apples and pare them about 1/3 down from the stem end. Mix sugar,
  spices, nuts and fill center of each apple, press in firmly. Pat
  surplus sugar mix on pared portion of apple. Top with dot of butter.
  Place apples in shallow baking pan.
   Combine maple syrup, water, lemon juice and salt, heat quickly to
  boiling and remove from fire and add vanilla. Pour syrup mixture
  gently on top of each apple and around apples.
   Bake 350 for 40-45 min.  Baste with pan liquid at the end of first 15
  min., then 2 more times.  Test with toothpick for doneness at the end
  of 30 min.  Serve with cream.
   Pat Empson 05/20 07:17 pm
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/20 8:08 PM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Grilled" Apple Crisp
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     21 oz Pie filling, apple or Cherry
    1/3 c  Sugar, brown; packed
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 pk Cake mix, yellow (18.5 oz)
           -approx. 2 cups
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; cut in
           -this slices
           Whipped topping or ice cream
 
    1. Spray 9-inch baking pan with PAM.  Pour pie filling into 9-inch
  baking pan.  Sprinkle with brown sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and lemon
  juice.
   Sprinkle cake mix over pie filling to cover.  Dot with butter slices.
    2. Preheat grill on medium for 10 minutes, then turn left side of
  grill off and invert a baking pan on left cooking grid. Place baking
  pan on inverted pan. Close lid and bake 55-65 minutes, or until
  browned and bubbly.
    3. Let stand until warm.  Serve topped with whipped topping or ice
  cream.
   Pat Empson 05/24 11:32 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/24 12:03 PM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES This is absolutely the best apple cake that I have
  ever had, or made! `
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RICOTTA PUDDING
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Egg; separated
      1 tb Sugar
      1 c  Ricotta cheese, part-skim
    1/2 ts Lemon peel; grated
      1 tb Flour, all-purpose
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Cinnamon-sugar mix; opt.
      4    Strawberries;
           -For garnish; optional
 
   Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In small bowl, with electric mixer at
  high, beat egg white until stiff but not dry; set aside. In small
  bowl, beat egg yolk and sugar until slightly thick and lemon-colored;
  set aside. Place cheese in a sieve, press to drain any water. Add
  cheese to egg yolk mixture with lemon peel; blend well. Stir in flour
  and baking powder until well blended. Fold in egg white. Pour mixture
  into four 4-oz baking cups, filling about 2/3 full; bake 20-25
  minutes until puffed and golden brown. If desired, garnish each with
  1/4 teaspoon cinnamon-sugar mix and a strawberry. Serve immediately.
   Per serving: about 125 cals.; 9 g. protein; 6 g fat; 9 g. carbs.;
  147 mg sodium.
   Preparation: 15 minutes; total time, 35 minutes. Enjoy!! Sorry, do
  not have name of recipe contributor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BERRIES WITH SWEET YOGURT SAUCE
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -ELAINE RADIS BGMB90B
    1/2 c  Yogurt; low-fat plain

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCES--------------------------------
      1 ts Sugar; or sweet and low
      2 tb Low sugar jam*
      1 ds Zest of orange; or lemon
      2 c  Strawberries; sliced**
 
   *I use Smukers low sugar jams **or other berries In blender combine
  all ingrediensts and zap till smooth. Serve sauce over the berries.
  One of my comfort foods was berries and sour cream....Oy Veh. Try
  this instead. I don't use the added sugar all though it is minimal.
  Approximately 60 calories and delicious.
   WW; 1/2 fruit and 1/4 milk; 15 optional.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MARTHA WASHINGTON'S PLUM PUDDING
 Categories: Oldies, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------OLD FARMER'S ALMANAC-------------------------

MMMMM------------------COLONIAL COOKBOOK-YANKEE-----------------------
  2 1/2 lb Prunes
  1 1/2 lb Raisins
    3/4 c  Brandy
      2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Cloves
      1 ts Allspice
      2 ts Mace
  1 1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 lb Beef suet, minced
    1/2 c  Grated orange peel
    1/4 c  Grated lemon peel
      1 lb Citron
      2 c  Flour
      7    Eggs, beaten
      2 c  Sugar
 
  **According to her time honored recipe, you take three days to
  prepare this great concoction***
    First, prunes and raisns are cooked until soft. Leave the fruit in
  its cooking water and add brandy and spices. let mixture steep for 2
  days in cool place.
  
  When the day comes of baking, drain off liquid. Add beef suet, grated
  orange and lemon peel and citron, combining further with flour, eggs
  and sugar. Press into a butter bread-loaf pan, cover tightly, and
  steam for 6 hours. You will have the famous pudding.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jumbleberry Pie
 Categories: Pastry, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Pie pastry dough for 2 crust
      3 c  Blueberries
    1/3 c  Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Half&half
      3 c  Blackberries
  2 1/2 c  Raspberries
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      1 tb Unsalted butter, in bits
           Ice cream as accompaniment
 
  Roll out half the dough 1/8 inch thick on a lightly floured surface,
  fit it into a 9 inch deep dish pie plate and trim edge, leaving a 1/2
  inch overhang.  Chill the shell while making the filling. In a large
  bowl, toss together the berries, cornstarch, 1 1/2 cups sugar, lemon
  juice, nutmeg, and cinnamon until combined well.  Mound the filling
  in the shell and dot with butter. Roll out remaining dough into a 13
  ~ 14 inch round on a lightly floured surface. Drape it over the
  filling and trim, leaving a 1 inch overhang. Fold the overhang under
  the bottom crust, pressing the edge to seal it.  Crimp the edge
  decoratively. Brush the crust with h&h, make slits in the top crust
  and sprinkle with sugar. Bake on a large cookie sheet in a preheated
  425f oven for 20 minutes. Reduce heat to 375f and bake for 35 - 40
  minutes more or until crust is golden and filling is bubbling. Serve
  with ice cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-almond Tea Cake *
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Vegetables, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 c  Zucchini; finely shredded
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Vegetable oil
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs; room temperature
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Lemon peel; grated
  2 1/4 c  All purpose flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Baking powder
  1 1/2 c  Almonds; chopped
      2 tb Honey
 
  Mix zucchini and salt in colander. Weight with plate and let drain 1
  hour. Squeeze out excess moisture. Preheat oven to 350~. Grease 9x13"
  glass baking dish. Mix oil, sugar, eggs, 1/2 cup honey, lemon juice
  and peel in large bowl until well blended. Mix in zucchini. Sift
  flour, baking soda and baking powder; stir into zucchini. Fold in
  nuts. Pour into prepared dish. Bake until cake is springy to touch,
  about 35 minutes. Spread 2 tablespoons honey over top. Cool in pan.
  Serve at room temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Snow Jello
 Categories: Salads, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lg Can crushed pineapple
      2 lg Jar Junior baby food (I
           -prefer Hawaiian Delight)
      8 oz Cream cheese
      1 lg Lemon jello
      1 c  Sugar
      1 lg Can Milnot
           Chopped nuts
 
  Blend pineapple, baby food, cream cheese, sugar and jello in a large
  saucepan. Bring to a boil. Cool. Whip can of Milnot and add to cooled
  mixture. Transfer to jello mold or other serving container. Sprinkle
  with chopped nuts. Makes a 9x13 pan so is great for a large group.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pear and Raisin Charoses
 Categories: Fruit, Passover
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton - PDPP83A
      2 sm Pears; cored and coarsely
           -chopped
     12    Dried apricot halves;
           -chopped
    1/4 c  Raisins
  1 1/2 tb Honey
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 oz (2 Tb.) sweet red wine
 
  In medium bowl, combine pears, apricots, raisins, honey, lemon juice
  and cinnamon; mix well.  Stir in wine. Cover and refrigerate at least
  1 hour before serving.
  
  Each serving provides:  1/2 FR, 10 C.  Per serving: 43 cal, 0 g fat,
  11 g car, 1 mg sod, 0 mg chol.
  
  Source:  "Weight Watchers" magazine, April 1992.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maxine's Milnot Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Lemon Jello
      1 c  Boiling water
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 cn Milnot, whipped
  3 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    2/3 c  Oleo, melted
 
    Dissolve jello in boiling water. Chill until slightly thickened.
  Cream together cream cheese, sugar and vanilla. Add to jello and
  blend well. Fold in stiffly whipped Milnot.
    Mix graham cracker crumbs and melted oleo together. Put on bottom
  and sides of 9 x 12-inch pan (save 1/2 cup for top). Add filling and
  sprinkle the 1/2 cup crumbs on top. Chill overnight. Garnish with
  fruit if desired. Freezes beautifully.
        Pat Empson 05/25 09:49 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/25 10:02 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM-MIXED BAG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SWEET-TART BERRY JELLY
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -NPFN03A
  1 1/2 oz Diet lemon gelatin (3 env)
      1 c  -Boiling water
      1 c  -Cold water
     10 oz Frozen sliced strawberries
    1/8 ts -Salt
 
   *Sweetened, partially thawed.
   Empty gelatin into boil, pour on boiling water, stir until com-
  pletely dissolved. Stir in cold water, straw- berries, salt. Mix
  until berries completely thaw and separate. Refrigerate until firm,
  about 2 hours.
   60 calories per serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STREUSEL AND CREAM PEAR KUCHEN
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Hot water (120 to 130 degree
      1    Egg
      1 pk Cream cheese, softened, (8 o
      2 tb Flour
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
    1/3 c  Pecans, chopped
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      4    Sm Pears, peeled and halved
      1 pk Hot-roll mix, reserving 1/3
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Butter, softened

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs

MMMMM--------------------------STREUSEL-------------------------------
           Reserved 1/3 cup flour mixtu
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 tb Sugar
 
      In a large saucepan, combine pears, 1/4 cup lemon juice and enough
  water to cover tops of pears. Bring to a boil; reduce heat and simmer,
  covered, for 10 minutes or until tender. Drain pears; set aside.
      Grease two 9 inch round cake or springform pans. In large bowl,
  combine hot-roll mix with yeast from foil packet, 1/4 cup sugar and
  1/2 tsp cinnamon. Stir in hot water, 1/4 cup butter and 1 egg until
  well combined; dough will be soft and sticky. Divide dough evenly
  between greased pans; pat out dough to cover bottom of pans. Cover
  with plastic wrap and towel. Let rise in warm place (80 to 85
  degrees) for 30 minutes.
      Meanwhile, in small bowl, combine all filling ingredients. Beat at
  medium speed until smooth; set aside. In another small bowl, combine
  first four streusel ingredients; mix well. Cut in butter until
  crumbly. Set aside.
      Heat oven to 375 degrees. Uncover dough. With lightly floured
  hands, gently pat edges of dough halfway up the sides of the pans.
  Pour filling mixture evenly over dough in each pan. Sprinkle streusel
  mixture evenly over each filling. Thinly slice pear halves
  lengthwise, keeping slices together. Place four halves, rounded side
  up, on top of streusel mixture in each pan. Sprinkle pear halves with
  a mixture of 1 Tbsp sugar and 1/2 tsp cinnamon.
      Bake at 375 degrees for 25 to 35 minutes or until edges of kuchen
  are golden brown and filling is set. If desired, sprinkle with
  powdered sugar just before serving. Serve warm. Store leftovers in
  refrigerator. 2 kuchens (8 servings per cake) Upl by Dr. Jim
  Culveyhouse 73330,2525
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soft Molasses Apple Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 60 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
    1/2 c  Shortening
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Molasses
      1 tb Lemon juice
  3 1/2 c  All purpose flour, sifted
      1 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 ts Ginger
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Boiling water
      1 c  Tart apples, pared, cored,
           -and finely chopped
 
  Cream shortening and sugar. Beat in egg. Stir in molasses and lemon
  juice; blend well. Sift together dry indredients; add to creamed
  mixture. Stir in boiling water; mix well. Add chopped apples; mix.
  Chill thoroughly. Drop by teaspoons on greased baking sheets. Bake in
  350~ oven for 8 to 10 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golden Apple Torte
 Categories: Fruit, Pie/tart
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
      2 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
        ds Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine, soft
      1    Egg
      2 tb Cold water
      5 md Golden delicious apples
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
    1/4 c  Raisins
    1/3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Sift together 2 cups flour, 1/2 cup sugar, baking powder and salt.
  With fingers blend in butter or margarine, egg and water until dough
  holds together. Chill 1/3 of dough. Pat remaining 2/3 of dough on
  bottom and half way up sides of greased 9 inch springform pan. Bake
  at 400~ for 10 minutes. Peel, core and slice apples. Toss with lemon
  juice and raisins. Mix 1/3 cup sugar with 2 TB flour and cinnamon;
  toss with apples. Turn into prepared crust. Roll out chilled dough
  and cut into 1/2 inch strips. Arrange in lattice over apples, sealing
  to edges of baked pastry. Bake at 350~ for 50 to 60 minutes, until
  apples are tender and crust is golden brown.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Dish Apple Cream Pie
 Categories: Fruit, Pie/tart
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Margarine
      6 tb Ice water, may need 7 TB
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      8 c  Apples, sliced and peeled
      1 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Heavy cream
 
  Measure 2 cups flour and salt into a bowl. Cut in margarine with
  pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal. Stir in ice
  water; mix lightly. Form dough into a ball. Roll out 2/3 dough to fit
  a 10x6x2 inch baking dish. Transfer to baking dish. Combine sugar,
  remaining 1/4 cup of flour, cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix with apples and
  lemon juice. Pile into baking dish. Roll out remaining 1/3 pastry.
  Cover pie; seal edges and flute. Cut several large slits in top. Bake
  at 425~ for 40 minutes. Reduce heat to 350 ~. Remove pie from oven
  and pour cream through slits in top of pie. Bake 10 minutes longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Crunch Dessert
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
      1 c  Quick cooking rolled oats
    1/2 c  Whole bran cereal
    1/3 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/3 c  Brown sugar, packed
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ginger
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 pk Regular butterscotch pudding
           -mix, 4 oz pkg.
  1 1/4 c  Milk
     22 oz Apple pie filling
      1 ts Finely shredded lemon peel
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Mix oats, cereal, flour, sugar, soda and spices. Cut in butter or
  margarine until crumbly. Pat half the mixture into a 8x8x2 inch
  baking dish. Bake in 350~ oven 10 minutes. Prepare pudding mix
  according to package directions except use the 1 1/2 cups milk. Pour
  over crumb layer. Mix remaining ingredients; spoon over pudding. Top
  with remaining crumbs. Bake, uncovered, in 350~ oven 30 to 35
  minutes. Serve warm or cool with ice cream, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Cheesecake Elegante
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
      1 pk Cheesecake mix, 10 1/2 oz.
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine, melted
    1/3 c  Walnuts, ground or finely
           -chopped
  1 1/2 c  Cold milk
      2 c  Canned applesauce
    1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Mace
 
  CRUST: To make crust, empty envelope of graham cracker crust from mix
  into a bowl. Add 1/4 cup sugar, 1/4 cup melted butter or margarine
  and nuts. Mix until thoroughly combined. Press mixture firmly against
  sides and bottom of an 8 inch pie plate. Refrigerate 5 minutes or
  bake in 375~ oven for 8 minutes. Cool. FILLING: Pour milk into a
  small mixing bowl. Add contents of cheesecake filling envelope from
  mix, 1/2 cup applesauce, and grated lemon rind. Beat atlow speed with
  electric mixer until blended. Beat at medium speed 3 minutes longer.
  Pour into prepared crust; chill at least 1 hour. TOPPING: Combine 1
  1/2 cups applesauce and remaining ingredients in saucepan; simmer for
  20 minutes. To serve, top wedges of cake with spiced applesauce
  topping. Topping may be served warm or cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Apple Gems
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 50 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
  1 1/3 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1    Egg
      1 lg Apple, peeled, cored, and
           -finely chopped
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Nuts, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Apple juice
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
      3 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Nutmeg

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Powdered sugar, sifted
      3 tb Apple or lemon juice
      1 tb Butter
 
  Cream butter with sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Stir in
  egg, apples, raisins, nuts, apple juice and lemon peel. Blend in
  flour, baking soda, cinnamon and nutmeg and mix well. Drop dough by
  teaspoons on greased cookie sheet and bake at 375~ for 10 to 12
  minutes. Prepare glaze by mixing indredients in food processor or
  blender. Transfer to bowl. Remove cookies from oven. Let cool
  slightly on wire rack. Dip top of each warm cookie into glaze
  swirling to cover. Return to rack and cool completely. Store in
  airtight container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SUGAR FREE WHIPPED TOPPING
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Instant dry milk
    1/3 c  Cold water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Equivalent-sugar substitute
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine dry milk and water and refrigerate for 30 minutes. Beat at
  high speed for 4 minutes. Add lemon juice to whipped milk and beat at
  high speed for 4 minutes. Stir sugar and sugar substitute together
  and add gradually to the whipped milk while it is being beaten. Add
  vanilla to whipped topping and refrigerate until used. Can be spread
  on top of pies or used as a garnish for pies, puddings, or gelatins.
  It should be prepared as close to serving time as possible since it
  loses volume after a period of time. 1 serving = 2T
    exchanges = free  (1/3 c is 1 veg exchange) calories=12
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHOOSE-A-FRUIT ICE
 Categories: Desserts, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Fresh orange sections OR
     22 oz Canned mandarin oranges OR
  1 1/2 c  Raspberries OR
  1 1/2 c  Strawberries
    1/3 c  Sugar (use Equal)
      1 c  Warm water
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Optional garnish
 
     Use fresh or frozen unsweetened berries.
  
     In a 2 cup measure stir the sugar into warm water till dissolved.
  In a blender container or food processor bowl combine desired fruit,
  sugar mixture, and lemon juice. Cover and blend or process till
  mixture is nearly smooth. Pour into a 9 x 5 x 3" loaf pan. Cover and
  freeze for 4 to 5 hours or till almost firm.
     Transfer the frozen mixture to a chilled large mixer bowl. Beat
  with electric mixer on medium speed for 2 minutes or till fluffy.
  Return fruit mixture to loaf pan. Cover and freeze for 6 hours or
  till firm.
  
     Let the fruit ice stand about 20 minutes at room temperature before
  serving.  To serve, use an ice-cream scoop and scrape along ice to
  form a scoop. If desired, garnish each serving with mint sprig or
  fresh berries.
   Makes 6 servings.
  
     Nutritional information per serving usng fresh oranges: calories -
  65, fat - 0.1 g., cholesterol - 0 mg., protein - 0 g., carbohydrate -
  17 g., fiber - 1 g., sodium - 0 mg. U.S. RDA vit. C = 44%.
     Note: replacing sugar with Equal will change
  
  calorie and carbohydrate count.
  
     FROM:  Better Homes and Gardens magazine, July 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: DOWNEAST BLUEBERRY BREAD PUDDING
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Della Masia-TXBG93A
      2 tb Sugar-or use equivalent
           -sweetener amount
      1 tb Cornstarch
     10 pk Diatetic sweetener
      1 pt Fresh blueberries, sorted
           - and stemmed
      1 ts Lemon juice, fresh
      4    Slices stale white bread
  1 1/2 tb Margarine, room temperature
    1/2 c  Evaporated skimmed milk
 
  Combine the sugar, cornstarch and sweetener, pressing out all lumps.
  Dump the blueberries into a 6-cup shallow casserole that has been
  lightly sprayed with nonstick vegetable cooking spray. Dump in the
  sugar mixutre, add the lemon juice, and toss well to mix. With a
  potato masher, lightly mash the blueberries, set aside. Butter the
  bread,(with the margarine) lightly on one side, stack the slices and
  cut into 1/2" cubes.Dump into the casserole and toss well to mix.
  Bake the pudding uncovered in a moderate 350 F oven for 30 minutes,
  remove from oven, add the evaporated skim milk and stir well to mix.
  Return to to oven and bake uncovered for 15 minutes.Serve warm,
  topped, if you like, by a little whole milk. Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE WALNUT STRUDEL
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 x  Apples
    1/3 c  Walnuts (chopped)
    1/4 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/3 lb Phyllo leaves
      1    Bread crumbs
 
  Peel, core and chop apples.  Combine apples, walnuts and lemon juice
  in mixing bowl;  fold to mix.  Melt margarine. Place 2 phyllo leaves
  on a lightly dampened, lightly bread-crumbed cloth. Brush leaves
  lightly with melted margarine.  Lay a second leaf on top of each
  leaf. Brush each layer lightly with melted margarine. Repeat using
  all the leaves. Place apple filling 2 inch in from long edges.  Fold
  long edges in over the filling. Fold over the ends.  Roll up dough,
  jelly-roll fashion. Score top into 10 pieces with a sharp knife or
  scissors and place on greased cookie sheet. Bake at 350F for 25
  minutes, or until lightly browned. 1 piece = 1/2 bread, 1 fat
    calories = 108
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLUEBERRY SNOW
 Categories: Desserts, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin (1 env)
    1/4 c  Cold water
    1/2 c  Boiling water
      2 c  Fresh blueberries (rinsed)
      1 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Granulated sugar replacement
      2    Egg whites (beaten stiff)
      6    Fresh strawberries(optional)
 
  Sprinkle gelatin over cold water in mixing bowl; set aside 10 minutes
  to soften.  Add boiling water and stir to completely dissolve. (If
  gelatin does not dissolve completely, heat slightly.) Set aside.
   Combine blueberries, lemon juice and sugar replacement in mixing
  bowl or food processor and whip into a puree. Stir completely into
  gelatin mixture. When blueberry mixture is cool, thick and syrupy,
  beat until frothy. Fold stiffly beaten egg whites into blueverry
  mixture. Spoon into 6 serving dishes; refrigerate until set. Before
  serving, top with fresh strawberries. 1 serving = 1/3 fruit
      calories = 18
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: DIABETIC CITRUS ICE
 Categories: Desserts, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 5 servings
 
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar replacement
      1 c  Ea unsweetened orange &
           Grapefruit juices
      1 c  Water
      1    Env unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
   Combine sugar replacement,water & gelatin in a saucepan.Bring to a
  boil, reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes. Cool slightly and then
  add in the juices. Transfer to freezer trays and freeze until mushy.
  Scrape into mixing bowl and beat until just loosened. Return to
  freezer tray.
  
   Calories 41 per serving Exchange 1 fruit
  
   source: diabetic dessert cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LIGHT AND LUSCIOUS ORANGE BARS-DIABETIC
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -FHMN87A
      1 ts Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Frozen concentrated Orange J
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Nonfat dry milk powder
    1/2 c  Cold water
      1 tb Lemonjuice
     24    Graham crackers
 
  Chill a small mixing bowl and beaters.  In the top section of a double
  boiler, soften gelatin in the melted concentrated Orange Juice. Place
  over hot water,and stir until the gelatin is completely dissolved.
  Remove from heat and stir in the sugar and vanilla. Using cold
  beaters, beat dry milk and water until soft peaks form. Add the lemon
  juice and beat until stiff. Fold in orange juice mixture.  Spread on
  12 Graham crackers. Top with the remaining crackers. Wrap
  individually; freeze until firm about 2 hours. From the ADA FAmily
  Cookbook vol.II. Exchanges per sandwich: 1/2 non fat milk, 1 fruit
  Cal 89, cho 17, pro 3, fat 1, Na 121, K 181, 1/2 teaspoon sugar (8
  cal) per serving
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRIED APPLES**2
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Tart apples; sliced
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Bacon drippings
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ds Of nutmeg
 
  In a large skillet, melt bacon drippings.  Pour apples evenly over
  skillet bottom.  Sprinkle lemon juice over them, then brown sugar,
  then salt. Cover and cook over low heat for 15 minutes until apples
  are tender and juicy. Sprinkle with cinnamon & nutmeg.
  
  This recipe is close to the apples served at Cracker Barrel. from "the
  Grandpa Jones Family Dinner Theater" in Arkansas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BOURBON-BUTTERSCOTCH BAKED APPLES
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Don Fifield xkgr41a
      6 lg Baking apples; cored
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter;cut in small
           -pieces
    3/4 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
    3/4 c  Bourbon
    3/4 c  Light cream
      1 tb Vanella
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Preheat oven to 350 deg. Remove a strip of peel from around the top
  of each apple with a vegetable peeler. Set the apples upright in a
  flameproof baking pan just large enough to accomodate them. Top the
  apples with the butter; sprinkle with brown sugar, then drizzle with
  the bourbon over all. Bake until the apples are puffed and tender,
  basting them occasionally with the pan juices, 30 to 35 min. Transfer
  the apples to a platter and keep warm.  Stir the cream into the
  baking pan and set over high heat. Bring to a boil, then lower the
  heat to medium high and cook, stirring frequently, until the sauce is
  reduced by half and coats a spoon, 7 - 10 min. Remove the sauce from
  the heat and stir in the vanilla and lemon juice. Spoon the sauce
  onto dessert plates and set an apple in the center of each one and
  serve immediately. Per serving: 302 cal, 10 gr fat, 26 mil. chol, 7
  mil. sodium.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE GRAHAM CRACKER PUDDING
 Categories: Puddings, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Apples
      3 tb Butter
     12    Graham crackers
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Brown sugar or maple syrup
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Crush graham crackers to make fine crumbs.  Mix crumbs with brown
  sugar and chopped walnuts; set aside. Peel, core and slice apples.
  Arrange in buttered 8-inch baking dish in alternate layers with crumb
  mixture. Dot top with butter and pour lemon juice and water over all.
  Sprinkle with nutmeg. Cover and bake in slow oven at 350 degrees for
  about 30 minutes, until apples are cooked to a jelly. Serve hot or
  cold with cream or whipped cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE MERINGUE-1
 Categories: Penndutch, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Apple, stewed, hot
    1/4 c  Sugar
      3    Egg, separated
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Powdered sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine the stewed apples, sugar, butter, lemon juice and spices and
  mix well. Beat the egg yolks and add to the apple mixture and beat
  until light. Pour into a buttered baking dish and bake at 400-F about
  15 minutes. Remove from oven and cover with a meringue made by
  beating the egg whites stiff, adding to them the powdered sugar and
  vanilla after partially beaten. Return to oven and bake at 325-F to
  brown the meringue. Source: Pennsylvania Dutch Cook Book - Fine Old
  Recipes, Culinary Arts Press, 1936.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE MERINGUE - Loreli
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
      6 md Tart apples,peeled and cored
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
    1/3 c  White seedless raisins,
           -plumped
    2/3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      3    Egg whites
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Slice apples about 1/4 inch thick. Place in a well buttered baking
  dish. Pour melted butter over apples. Sprinkle with raisins, lemon
  juice and 1/2 of the sugar. Cover with aluminum foil and bake at 350
  for about 20 minutes, or until apples are tender. Beat egg whites
  with salt until stiff. Gradually add the remaining sugar to make a
  stiff meringue. Spread meringue over apples to the edge of dish. Bake
  an additional 10 minutes, or until meringue is brown. Serve warm.
  Cream may be added if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE-CRANBERRY COBBLER
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      3 c  Sliced apple
      1 c  Fresh or frozen cranberries
      1 c  Sliced pear
      2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Chopped pitted fresh dates
      1 tb Arrowroot powder
    1/4 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Maple syrup
  1 1/2 c  Rolled oats
    1/4 ts Vanilla
    3/4 c  Apple juice
      1 ts Nutmeg
 
  Apples, tangy cranberries, and pears under a granola-type crust can be
  served in small glass bowls for an inviting holiday meal conclusion.
  
  1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. In a shallow baking dish, combine
  apples, cranberries, and pears. 2. In a blender puree cinnamon,
  dates, arrowroot, lemon juice, and maple syrup, and pour over apple
  mixture. 3. Combine oats, vanilla, apple juice, and nutmeg and mix
  with your fingers or a wooden spoon until the apple juice is
  distributed evenly. Sprinkle topping over apples. 4. Bake until
  bubbly and slightly browned (about 40 minutes). (160 calories per
  serving)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PRESERVES
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 c  Peeled-cored-sliced apples
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1    Lemon; thinly sliced
      4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
      1 pk Pectin
      2 ts Ground nutmeg
 
  This is NOT jam.  I like to use these warmed as a side dish (like
  
  escalloped apples). This is from the Ball Blue Book.
  
  Mix apples, water, lemon juice in large pot. Simmer covered 10 min.
  Stir in pectin and bring to full rolling boil, stir frequently. Add
  lemon slices/sugar and bring to full rolling boil again and boil for
  1 min, stir frequently.  Remove from heat and add nutmeg. Pour into
  hot jars or cool and put into freezer containers. If canning, process
  10 min in boiling water bath. Yield 6 half pints.   IF FREEZING, MAKE
  SURE YOU COOL FIRST, IT WILL BE HOT ENOUGH TO MELT PLASTIC !!!! (I
  speak from experience !)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLES IN WINE
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 9 servings
 
     12    Tart cooking apples
      2 c  Dry red wine
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      2 sl Lemon (optional)
 
  Core, peel, and quarter apples.  Combine wine and sugar in crockpot,
  stir well.  Add apple quarters. Stir well to coat apples with wine
  mixture. Add nutmeg and lemon slices. Cover and cook on low setting
  for 8-12 hours (high 2-3 hours).
  
  Transfer apples and liquid to a refrigerator container and chill well.
  Serve in sherbet glasses.
  
  Yield: about 3 quarts
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PERSIAN APPLE DESSERT
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 3 servings
 
           -Betty Crocker
      3 md Apples, pared and cut up
  2 1/2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Rose or orange flower
           -water (optional)
      1 ds Salt
 
  Rose water or orange flower water mark this light fruit dessert as
  Middle Eastern. Both of these subtle flavorings can be found at
  pharmacies as well as in gourmet and specialty shops. Process half
  the apples and the remaining ingredients in blender container until
  coarsely chopped, 20 to 30 seconds. Add remaining apples. Blend until
  coarsely chopped.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SCANDINAVIAN APPLE CAKE
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------SCANDIA, HOLLYWOOD--------------------------
      5 lb Apples
           Sugar
           Lemon juice
           Butter/Margarine; melted
  1 1/2 c  Toasted cake crumbs
    1/2 c  Currant jelly
      3 oz Mixed nuts; ground
     12    Macaroons
      3 oz Sliced blanched almonds
      1 c  Whipping cream
 
  Core, peel and slice apples.  Season to taste with sugar and lemon
  jice and cook in small amount of water until apples are tender. Drain
  in large strainer and press to extract water. Pour melted butter into
  2-inch-deep 10-inch layer cake pan, spreading evenly in pan. Sprinkle
  1/2 cup cake crumbs over bottom of pan. Spread half of apples over
  crumbs. Top with jelly, then nuts, then 1/2 cup more crumbs. Place
  macaroons in layer over crumbs. Top with remaining apples and cover
  with remaining 1/2 cup cake crumbs. Bake at 450 deg. 30 minutes. Cool
  in refrigerator. Sprinkle almonds lightly with water, then sprinkle
  with sugar and toast at 350 deg. 15 to 20 minutes or until golden.
  Shake pan after 10 minutes to keep almonds from sticking together.
  Whip cream and frost cake. Sprinkle with almonds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE BRAZIL NUT SQUARES *
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Nuts/grains, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
      2 c  Flour
      3 tb Sugar
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine; cut up
      1    Egg; slightly beaten
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      4 tb Water; iced

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      6    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Brazil nuts -OR- almonds;
           - pulverized
    1/3 c  Dark -OR- light raisins
      3 c  Tart appples; shredded
           - about 3 large
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      6 tb Apricot jam
      6 tb Butter or margarine; melted

MMMMM-------------------------SERVE WITH------------------------------
           Slightly sweetened whipped
           - cream
           Toasted slivered almonds
 
  Mix flour and sugar in bowl. Cut butter into mixture until pieces are
  the size of peas. Blend the egg, lemon juice and 3 tbls water.
  Sprinkle over the dry ingredients. Toss with fork until four is
  moistened. Press into a ball. Add last tbls of water if needed. Roll
  pastry into a 9x13" baking pan, building the edge up about 1". In
  small bowl, beat egg yolks until fluffy. Add sugar and salt. Beat at
  high speed until thick and lemon colored. Blend in the nuts and
  raisins. Fold in the appples and cinnamon. Spread apricot jam over
  the pastry. Top with apple-nut
  
  mixture. Bake at 350 for 25 minutes. Drizzle with melted butter.
  Return to oven. Bake 15-20 minutes longer until top is golden. Cut
  into squares. Serve warm with slightly sweetened whipped cream and
  garnished with almonds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PASTRY SQUARES
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Water
      5 c  Apples, peeled and sliced
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      1 tb Lemon juice

MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
      2 c  Flour
    2/3 c  Shortening
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Egg yolks, beaten
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 tb Lemon juice

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Combine sugar, cornstarch and butter in saucepan.  Mix until well
  blended, add apples.  Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Remove
  from heat, stir in spices and lemon juice, set aside. For pastry,
  combine egg yolks, water and lemon juice.  Blend into flour. Mixture
  will form a ball, divide in half.  On lightly floured board, roll
  dough between 2 pieces of waxed paper to fit bottom and halfway up
  sides of 9x13 inch pan. Spread apple mixture over pastry.  Roll
  remaining pastry to fit pan. Place on top of filling. Fold bottom
  pastry over and press to seal. Cut a few slits in top. Bake for 40
  minutes at 400 degrees or until lightly browned. Combine ingredients
  for glaze and drizzle over cooled pastry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE HARVEST SQUARES
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 20 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar;divided
    1/2 c  Butter
      4 c  Apples; sliced, peeled
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
      1    Egg; lightly beaten
    1/3 c  Evaporated milk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 c  Chopped nuts
  1 1/3 c  Flaked coconut
 
  In a bowl, combine flour, salt and 1/3 cup sugar. Cut in butter until
  the mixture resembles fine crumbs; press into the bottom of a greased
  13x9x2-inch baking pan. Arrange the apple slices on top of crumbs;
  sprinkle with lemon juice. Combine 1/3 cup sugar with cinnamon;
  sprinkle over apples. Bake at 375 deg. for 20 min. Meanwhile, in a
  small bowl, combine remaining sugar with the rest of the ingredients.
  Spoon over baked apples; bake for another 20 minutes or until golden
  brown. Cut into squares while still warm,
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CINNAMON SCENTED APPLE NOODLE KUGEL
 Categories: Casseroles, Fruit, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     14 oz Egg noodles; to 16 ozs.
           Medium size.
      6 tb Butter or margarine
      3    Golden Delicious Apples;
           -1 1/2 lbs.,peeled,cored,
           -Sliced
      6 tb Sugar
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/2 c  Pecans,walnuts,or almonds;
           -Coarsely chopped
    1/3 c  Raisins; dark
      1 ts Lemon peel; grated
      1 ds Salt
      4    Eggs; separated
      1 ts Vanilla
 
    Cook noodles in large pan of boiling,salted water,until barely
  tender,about 5 minutes.Drain.Rinse with cold water and drain
  well.Transfer to large bowl..
    Heat 2 tbs.butter in large skillet.Add 1/2 of apples and saute over
  medium heat 5 minutes,turning once.Remove with slotted spoon.Add
  remaining apples to skillet and saute them.Return all apples to
  skillet.Sprinkle with 2 tbs.sugar and 1/2 tsp.cinnamon.Saute 1
  minute,tossing apples.Transfer to separate bowl..
    Melt remaining 4 tbs.butter in skillet over low heat.Add 3
  tbs.melted butter to noodles and mix well.Stir in nuts raisins,lemon
  peel and salt...
    Whip egg whites to soft peaks.Beat in remaining 4 tbs.sugar and whip
  until whites are stiff but not dry.Stir yolks and vanilla into
  noodles.Stir in 1/4 of whites.Fold in remaining whites..
    Add 1/2 of noodle mixture to greased 13"x9"x2" baking dish.Top with
  sauteed apples in even layer.Top with remaining noodle mixture.Spread
  gently to cover
  
  apples.Sprinkle with remaining 1/2 tsp. cinnamon,then with remaining
  1 tbs melted butter.Cover and bake 30 minutes at 350 deg.Uncover and
  bake until set, 20 minutes longer.Serve hot. 06/08 09:04 pm Don
  Fifield -Marietta, GA
  
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/08 9:25 PM
  
  TO:      DON FIFIELD   (XKGR41A) FROM: DON FIFIELD (XKGR41A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM APPLES-COOKIES+
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE - EUROPEAN SOUR CREAM
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
    2/3 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Pure maple syrup
    1/2 c  Cream cheese
      1    Egg
      1 tb Orange rind
      1 ts Vanilla
  2 1/4 c  Unbleached flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 lb Green apples

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Pure maple syrup
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  For the crust, blend together butter, maple syrup, cream cheese, egg,
  orange rind and vanilla.  Add flour and baking powder. Roll out crust
  on a floured surface with a floured rolling pin. This dough is soft.
  Roll to 1/3-inch thickness.  Fit or pat the dough into 7-inch pie
  plate. Cut apples into 1/8-inch slices and arrange in a circular
  pattern on dough in pie plate. Refrigerate 1/2 hour. Combine sour
  cream, maple syrup and lemon juice.  Spoon over chilled apples.
  Sprinkle nutmeg on top. Bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE CARAMEL ALMOND
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 c  Flour
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      1 tb Milk

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      5 md Tart apples; peeled, cored,
           - and sliced
      4 tb White -OR- brown sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Lemon juice

MMMMM-------------------CARAMEL ALMOND TOPPING------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine; soft
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Milk
      1 ts Cinnamon
      3 oz Almonds; sliced
           Sour cream
 
  In small bowl, stir together flour, sugar and salt. With fork, beat
  together salad oil and milk. Stir oil mix itno flour mix to make a
  soft dough. Press dough into 9" pie plate or 10" shallow au-gratin
  dish. Press edges to make sides about 1" high in gratin dish; make
  sides come to top of pie plate. Bake at 425 for 10-12 minutes or
  until golden. While crust bakes, prepare apples. Mix with sugar,
  cornstarch and lemon juice. Turn into baked pie shell. Melt butter in
  skillet. Add sugar, flour, cinnamon and almonds. Boil 1 minute,
  stirring. Pour over apples in pan to coat evenly. Bake at 425 for
  25-30 minutes or until caramel topping is golden and bubbly. Cool
  before serving. Excellant served with sour cream, or may serve with
  lightly sweetned whipped cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE - POMONA
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1    Crust for 9" pie (single)

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      4 c  Tart apples; shredded
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Walnuts; chopped
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
        ds Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Honey

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      4 tb Butter; soft
      3 tb Flour
      3 tb Walnuts; chopped
      3 tb Brown sugar
 
  Prepare crust or use a ready made one. Prebake at 375 for about 8
  minutes. Prepare filling. Shred apples (they don't need to be peeled
  if skin is soft). Mix with lemon juice quickly. Blend together
  walnuts, brown sugar and nutmeg. Place apples in the prepared shell.
  Top with walnut mix. Pour honey evenly over all. Bake at 375 for
  about 35 minutes. In the meantime, prepare topping. With fork, blend
  together butter, flour, walnuts and sugar until crumbly. Top pie with
  crumbled mix. Bake another 10-15 minutes or until apples are soft and
  topping is light brown. Serve with whipped cream or ice cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE - FRENCH *Low-Fat*
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Low cal/fat, Fruit
      Yield: 9 servings
 
           -diane crhn32b
           Light & Flaky Pie Crust;
           -see recipe of same name
  1 1/2 c  Thick unsweetened applesauce
    1/2 c  Honey
      3 tb Apple brandy; optional
      1 tb Vanilla extract;
           Lemon; grated rind only
      3 x  Tart apples; peeled & thinly
           -sliced
    1/2 c  All-fruit apricot jam;

MMMMM----------------------DATA PER SERVING---------------------------
    290 x  *Calories
      3 x  *gm Protein
      7 x  *gm Fat
     57 x  *gm Carbo
        x  *gm Chol
     11 x  *mg Sodium
      3 x  *gm Fiber
 
  PREPARE AND BAKE crust according to recipe instructions. (See Light &
  Flaky Pie Crust recipe) Set aside.
  
  Preheat oven to 375F.  In a 2-quart saucepan over med-high heat,
  simmer applesauce, honey, brandy if desired, vanilla and lemon rind
  until quite thick, about 10 to 15 minutes. Pour mixture into prepared
  crust. Arrange apples in concentric circles on top of sauce.
  
  In a 1-qt saucepan over med-high heat, melt apricot jam, then press
  through a sieve.  Use a pastry brush to glaze apples with jam.
  
  Bake for 30 minutes.  Let cool before slicing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE WITH PORT WITH CHEDDAR CHEESE CRUST
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 7 servings
 
           Los Angeles Times

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
    2/3 c  Apple juice
    2/3 c  Port wine
      2 tb Butter/Margarine
      1    Lemon peel; grated
      8 md Cooking apples; peeled and
           -sliced (abt 7 - 8 cups)

MMMMM--------------------CHEDDAR CHEESE CRUST-------------------------
      2 c  Flour; sifted
      1 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Shortening
    3/4 c  Sharp cheddar cheese;
           -shredded
  5 1/2 tb Water
 
  For the filling, combine sugar and cornstarch in lg saucepan. Stir in
  apple juice, port, butter and lemon peel. Cook over medium heat until
  mixture boils.  Add apples and cook gently until barely tender.
  
  To make Cheddar Cheese crust, mix flour, salt and shortening with
  pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal. Stir in cheese.
  Add water gradually and mix lightly with fork to form dough. Divide
  pastry in halves and roll out one half to fit 9-in. pie pan. Roll
  second half of pastry and cut into 10 (1/2 in.) strips. Spoon filling
  into pastry-lined pan. Weave pastry strips across filling to make
  lattice top. Bake at 375 deg. 30 to 45 min. or until done.  Serve
  warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE - ITALIAN  Crostata Di Mele)
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -General Mills, Inc
           Tart Dough (see recipe or
           -use favorite recipe)
      6 md Cooking apples; pared and
           -thinly sliced
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Sugar

MMMMM-----------------06/07 08:37 AM DON FIFIELD----------------------
 
  Prepare Tart Dough. Heat oven to 375 deg. Toss together apples and
  lemon juice. Roll three-forths of the dough into 11-inch circle on
  lightly floured surface. Ease dough into ungreased 9x1 1/4-inch pie
  plate, pressing firmly against bottom and side.  Turn apples into pie
  plate and sprinkle with sugar.  Roll remaining dough into 11x5-inch
  rectangle. Cut lengthwise into 11 strips, 1/2-inch wide.  Arrange
  strips in lattice pattern on apples.  Fold edge of lower crust over
  ends of strips. Seal and flute. Bake 30 to 35 minutes or until crust
  is golden brown.
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/07 8:55 AM
  
  TO:      DON FIFIELD   (XKGR41A) FROM: DON FIFIELD (XKGR41A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM APPLES-PIES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE A LA APRICOT
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
      3    Egg yolks
      1 tb Margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      2 lb Tart cooking apples
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Margarine
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ds Nutmeg
    3/4 c  Apricot preserves
      1    Egg yolk
      1 tb Water

MMMMM-----------------06/07 08:38 AM DON FIFIELD----------------------
 
  Prepare pastry and line one 9-inch pie plate. In small saucepan,
  combine sugar and flour, mixing well.  Stir in milk. Bring to boil
  while stiring.
   Reduce heat and simmer until slightly thickened.  In bowl, beat egg
  yolks slightly and add small amount hot mixture. Pour egg mixture
  into saucep[an. Add margarine and vanilla. Cool. Peel and slice
  apples, sprinkle with lemon juice.  In skillet, combine margarine,
  sugar and nutmeg and melt. Add apples; saute, stirring occasionally.
  Cook until almost tender, about 5 minutes.  Remove from heat.  Pour
  into pastry shell. Pour cooled filling over apples. In saucepan, melt
  preserves and yolk and water and brush on pastry.  Bake in 425 deg.
  oven 40 min. or until golden.
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/07 8:55 AM
  
  TO:      DON FIFIELD   (XKGR41A) FROM: DON FIFIELD (XKGR41A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM APPLES-PIES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRENCH APPLE PIE-Pat
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Low cal/fat, Fruit
      Yield: 9 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Thick unsweetened applesauce
    1/2 c  Honey
      3 tb Apple brandy; optional
      1 tb Vanilla extract;
           Lemon; grated rind only
      3    Tart apples; peeled & thinly
           -sliced
    1/2 c  All-fruit apricot jam;

MMMMM----------------------DATA PER SERVING---------------------------
    290    *Calories
      3    *gm Protein
      7    *gm Fat
     57    *gm Carbo
           *gm Chol
     11    *mg Sodium
      3    *gm Fiber
 
  PREPARE AND BAKE crust according to recipe instructions. (See Light &
  Flaky Pie Crust recipe) Set aside. Preheat oven to 375F. In a 2-quart
  saucepan over med-high heat, simmer applesauce, honey, brandy if
  desired, vanilla and lemon rind until quite thick, about 10 to 15
  minutes. Pour mixture into prepared crust. Arrange apples in
  concentric circles on top of sauce.
  
  In a 1-qt saucepan over med-high heat, melt apricot jam, then press
  through a sieve.  Use a pastry brush to glaze apples with jam.
  
  Bake for 30 minutes.  Let cool before slicing.
   Pat Empson 05/21 07:23 am
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE - CRANBERRY
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      8    Granny Smith apples
      3 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Whole cranberries
      3 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Butter; melted
    2/3 c  Brown sugar

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    2/3 c  Oats
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Butter; in 1/2" squares
 
   Peel and slice apples and put in lemon juice. Then add all other
  filling ingredients and mix in a bowl. Make topping in separate bowl.
  Put apple mixture in pie shell. Sprinkle topping on liberally. Place
  butter squares on pie. Bake at 300 deg. for 1/2 to 1 3/4 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOLD-THE-SUGAR APPLE PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Low cal/fat, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 oz Frozen apple juice
           -concentrate, thawed
      3 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Allspice
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      6 lg Baking apples, peeled cored,
           Thinly sliced
           (Pippin, Rome or Gr Smith)
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1    9-inch pie shell, baked
           Flavored whipped cream
           (optional--recipe below)
           Nuts (optional)

MMMMM-------------------FLAVORED WHIPPED CREAM------------------------
      1 c  Whipping cream; whipped
      2 tb Frozen lemonade concentrate
           Thawed
           OR
    1/4 c  Peanut brittle; crushed
           AND
    1/2 ts Ground orange peel
 
  Measure about 1/4 cup concentrate into small bowl; stir in cornstarch
  and spices. Place the remainder of the concentrate into a large
  skillet with the apples. Simmer gently until apples are just tender.
  Lightly stir in cornstarch mixture until quite thick. Stir in butter.
  Pour into pie shell; top with whipped cream and nuts.
  
  Flavored Whipped Cream: Into whipping cream, fold 2 frozen lemonade
  concentrate, thawed, crushed peanut brittle and ground orange peel.
  (Tart shells may be substituted for the baked pie shell). Source: All
  American Apple Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLESCOTCH PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      5 c  Apples (tart); (note below)
           -peeled and thinly sliced
      1 c  Brown sugar; firmly packed
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Granulated sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      2    Pie crust shells (9");
           -unbaked
 
  Mix together the apples, brown sugar water and lemon juice in a
  2-quart saucepan. Heat to boiling; reduce heat. Cover and simmer 7-8
  minutes or JUST until apples are tender.
  
  Mix together the flour, granulated sugar and salt; stir into apple
  mixture. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and boils.
  Boil and stir 1 minute; remove from heat. Stir in the vanilla and
  butter or margarine; cool.
  
  Preheat oven to 425-degrees. Prepare pastry (or use store-bought).
  Turn apple mixture into pastry-lined pie plate. Cover with top crust
  in which you've cut slits; flute the edges. Cover edge of pie crust
  with foil (or cut out an aluminum pan--keeping just the edge) to
  prevent excessive browning; remove foil during the last 15 minutes of
  baking. Bake 40-45 minutes or until crust is golden brown.
  
  Note: I've found that ANY recipe calling for tart apples, you get more
  flavor by mixing the types of apples. As we have an abundance of
  varied apples,
  
  Fuji's, Granny Smith and Gala's...they all vary in flavor, texture,
  etc. Experiment with your favorite
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ALL-AMERICAN APPLE TURNOVERS
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      3 lg Apples (ab. 1-1//2 lbs);
           -peeled,cored & cut in 1/4"
           -dice ( 3cups)
    1/2 c  Apple cider or unsweetened
           -apple juice
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Fresh lemon juice
      1 pn Salt
    1/4 c  Unsweetened apple butter
      2 tb Dried currants (optional)
      1 ts Lemon zest; finely grated
    1/4 ts Cinnamon (optional)
      1 pn Ground cloves;(optional)
      1 pn Ground allspice;(optional)
 
  (Use favorite pastry) These turnovers are best with at least two
  varieties of firm cooking apples, such as Granny Smith, Jonathan,
  Winesap & Golden Delicious, for differences in texture and acidity.
  Sweet spices optional.
   1. Melt butter in a lg nonreactive skillet over mod. high heat. Add
  2 c of diced apples & cook, stirring frequently, 'til they begin to
  color, ab.5 min. Stir in cider, sugar, lemon ju & salt; reduce heat
  to mod. & cook 'til the liquid is reduced & the apples appear almost
  dry but still retain their shape, about 5 min. longer. Remove skillet
  from heat & stir in apple butter, currants, lemon zest,  cinnamon,
  cloves & allspice, along w remaining 1 c  of raw chopped apple.
  Transfer apple mixture to a med. bowl & refrigerate, uncovered, till
  cooled completely.
   2. On a lightly floured work surface, roll out the pastry dough to an
  18x20" rectangle, 1/16th inch thick. Using a 6" plate or bowl as a
  guide, cut out eight, 6"rounds as close together as possible. Gather
  and reroll the dough scraps, then cut out 2 additional rounds. 3.
  Spoon the cooled apple filling on the lower
  
  half of each of the rounds. Lightly moisten the edges of the rounds
  with water and fold the dough over the filling to form semicircular
  turnovers. Press down on the edges to seal, first with your fingers,
  then with the tines of a fork. Using back of a small knife, press
  into sealed edges at 1/2-inch intervals to create a scalloped effect.
  Transfer turnovers to a heavy baking sheet & refrigerate at least 15
  min. 4. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Brush turnovers w egg wash.
  Using a sharp knife, cut 2 small slits in top of each turnover to
  vent steam. 5. Bake turnovers in mid. of oven for 10 min. Move them
  to the upper rack & bake for 8-10 min.longer, or 'til pastry is a
  deep golden brown and filling begins to bubble. Let cool on rack.
  Makes 10.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PHYLLO KISSES
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Finely chopped cookg apples
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Grated cheddar cheese
      1 tb Minced fresh chives
      4    Phyllo dough sheets
  1 1/2 tb Melted butter

MMMMM-----------------06/07 05:03 PM DON FIFIELD----------------------
 
  In a small bowl, combine apples, lemon juice, cheddar cheese, and
  chives. Set aside. Preheat oven to 375' F. Cut each sheet of phyllo
  in half lengthwise and into fourths crosswise, forming 32 6 x 4-inch
  squares. Lay 1 square of phyllo on a sheet of waxed paper. Brush
  lightly with melted butter.  Repeat with 2 more squares of phyllo.
  Place 2 tablespoons of filling in center. Bring up opposite corners
  of square and pinch to form a "kiss".  Repeat with remaining phyllo.
  (You should have 8 filled pastries) Transfer to lightly buttered
  baking sheet. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden brown. Serve
  warm.
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/07 5:27 PM
  
  TO:      DON FIFIELD   (XKGR41A) FROM: DON FIFIELD (XKGR41A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM APPLES-PIES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE - STREUSEL
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg
      1 c  Sour cream, room temp
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Vanilla
        ds Salt
  2 1/4 c  Cooking apples, finely chpd,
           -peeled (2-3 apples)
    1/4 ts Grated lemon peel
      1    9" single-crust pie shell,
           -unbaked

MMMMM----------------------STREUSEL TOPPING---------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Flour
    3/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Butter
 
  Prep: 20 mins  Cook: 50-55 mins In lg bowl beat egg, stir in sour
  cream, sugar, flour, vanilla, and salt to blend thoroughly. Fold in
  apples and lemon peel, pour into pie shell. Bake 450, 10 mins. Reduce
  heat to 350, bake 25-30 mins until crust is golden brown. Sprinkle
  Streusel Topping evenly over pie. Bake 15 mins longer. Remove to rack
  to cool slightly. Serve immediately or cover and refrigerate.
  STREUSEL TOPPING; In sm bowl mix sugar, flour, cinnamon. With pastry
  blender or 2 knives, cut in butter to make a crumble mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PIE FILLING   (To freeze or can)
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
     10 c  Water
      1 c  Cornstarch
      1 ts Salt
     24 c  Apples; peeled,sliced
      2 ts Cinnamon
      3 ts Lemon juice
 
  Blend sugar, nutmeg, cornstarch, salt, cinnamon. Add water and cook
  till clear.  Add apples and lemon juice and cook till apples are
  soft. Pack in jars/containers.  To make pie, make crust and bake.
  Into prepared crust, put thawed filling and bake until warmed
  through. Crumb topping can be added before baking filling if you want
  (I use sugar, cinnamon, margarine and chopped pecans.) I found that
  the thickener (the flour, water, etc. mix that is cooked first) made
  a lot more than could be used up by 24 c of apples.  I think I got a
  total of 8-10 large containers (I use empty 32 oz yogurt containers).
  One of these containers was just enough for a 9 in pie. I also used
  (don't tell anybody) prepared pie shells just fine with this filling.
  I also used a large nonstick pot to cook this in and had very little
  problem with sticking at medium to medium high temperature.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cinnamon Apple Jello Mold *
 Categories: Desserts, Salads, Nuts/grains, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 c  Applesauce; hot
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  7-Up,
           - OR Red-pop
           - OR gingerale
      1 sm Red jello ( any flavor)
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Nuts; chopped
    1/3 c  Raisins
    1/3 c  Apples; chopped
 
  Mix all except nuts, raisins and apples together. Chill until barely
  set. Add nuts, raisins and apples. Chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Mold Salad
 Categories: Salads, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh cranberries
      1 c  Apples; chopped
      1 c  Nuts; chopped
      1 c  Crushed pineapple;
           - save juice
      1 c  Celery; chopped
      3    Bananas; sliced
      3 sm Lemon jello
      3 c  Sugar
 
  In blender, chop cranberries. Add juice from pineapple and water to
  equal 3 cups. Boil for 5 minutes, until thick. Add jello. Take off
  heat. Cool. Add other ingredients. Place in mold and refrigerate for
  at least 2 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Carousel *
 Categories: Salads, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 sm Raspberry jello
      1 sm Lemon jello
      2 c  Water; boiling, divided
    3/4 c  Cranberry juice
      1 c  Apples; diced
    1/4 c  Celery; sliced
    1/2 c  Nuts; chopped
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
  4 1/2 oz Cool Whip
 
  Dissolve raspberry jello in 1 cup boiling water. Add cranberry juice;
  chill until thickened (about 1 hour). Fold in apples, celery and
  nuts; spoon into 6 cup mold. Chill until set. Meanwhile, dissolve
  lemon jello in 1 cup boining water. Chill until thickened. Combine
  Cool Whip and mayonnaise; fold into lemon jello. Spoon into mold on
  top of raspberrry jello. Chill unitl firm; about 4 hours. Unmold.
  Garnish with salad greens and sliced apples.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple-Banana Crunch Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 md Apples; cut in chunks
      2 md Bananas; cut into chunks
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  All purpose flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Brown sugar; packed
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; soften
      1    9" pastry shell; unbaked
 
  Combine fruits and lemon juice; let stand 10 minutes. Combine flour,
  sugar and spices; cut in butter till crumbly. Arrange fruit in pastry
  shell. Sprinkle with crumb mixture. Bake at 400~F for 35-40 minutes.
  Cover top lossely with foil if crumb mixture browns too quickly. Cut
  in wedges to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crisp Apple Cream Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter; melted
  1 1/2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      1 cn Sweetened condensed milk
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 cn Apple pie filling
    1/4 c  Walnuts; chopped
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Combine butter and crumbs in 1 1/2 qt baking dish; mix well. Press
  evenly over bottom of dish. Mix condensed milk, sour cream and lemon
  juice in med bowl. Spread over crumb layer; spoon pie filling on top.
  Bake at 350~ for 25-30 minutes. Cool slightly. Mix walnuts and
  cinnamon; sprinkle over pie. Serve warm or cold. May substitute other
  flavors of pie filling. May want to add the walnut topping 5-10
  minutes before pie is done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Berry Tarts *
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     16 oz Cherry preserve; strained
  1 1/2 tb Kirsch
     20 oz Apple cider jelly
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      3 lb Sweet cherries; pitted
      8 c  Fresh blueberries
 
  (See also: Vanilla Cream and Sweet Pie Crust.) (Makes two 10x15-inch
  tarts.) Prepare cherry topping: Melt preserves in heavy small
  saucepan over low heat. Remove from heat. Stir in kirsch. Let glaze
  cool. Prepare blueberry-apple cider topping: Melt jelly in heavy
  small saucepan over low heat. Remove from heat. Stir in lemon juice.
  Let glaze cool. Assemble tarts: Spread Vanilla Cream in two
  10x15-inch Sweet Pie Crusts. Arrange cherries atop cream in one tart;
  blueberries in other tart, pressing gently. Brush cherries and
  blueberries generously with respective glazes. Refrigerate until well
  chilled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Sorbet #2
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
      3 lg Granny Smith Apples; peeled
           - cored and pureed
    1/4 c  Fresh Lemon Juice
      2 tb Applejack
        pn Cinnamon
        pn Nutmeg
 
  Combine sugar and water in saucepan over med. high heat and stir til
  sugar is dissolved. Just before syrup comes to boil, remove from
  heat. Cool and chill. Add syrup to remaining ingred. and blend well.
  Finish in either ice cream maker or freezer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Apple Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
      1 pk Jell-0 instant pudding
           -lemon flavor (4 serv. pkg.)
      4    Eggs
    1/2 c  Water
    1/3 c  Oil
    1/3 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Raisins; chopped
      1 c  Tart apple; peeled & chopped
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Combine cake mix, pudding mix, eggs, water, oil, and sour cream in
  large mixer bowl. Blend, then beat at medium speed of electric mixer
  for 4 minutes. Combine raisins, apple, and spices. Mix well and stir
  into batter. Pour into greased and floured 10-inch fluted tube pan.
  Bake at 350~ for 50-55 minutes or until cake tester inserted in
  center comes out clean and cake begins to pull away from sides of
  pan. Do not underbake. Cool in pan about 15 minutes.  Remove from pan
  and finish cooling on rack. Top with Tart Lemon Glaze.
   TART LEMON GLAZE: Place 1 tablespoon softened butter or margarine in
  small bowl.  Gradually stir in 1 cup sifted confectioners sugar
  blending well. Add 1 tablespoons lemon juice. Add 1 to 2 tsp. milk or
  water, a teaspoon at a time, until mixture is of glaze consistency.
  Spread over top of cake and allow to run down sides. Makes about 1/2
  cup or enough for a 10-inch tube or fluted tube cake or two 9 x
  5-inch loaf cakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPONGE CAKE DOMINIC'S+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Eggs, separated
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Water
      1 c  Sifted cake flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Lemon rind
 
  5101 WILSON AVE, ST. LOUIS Preheat oven to 350 F.
   Combine egg whites and salt.  Beat until they stand in soft peaks.
  Gradually beat in 1/4 cup sugar.  In another bowl, beat egg yolks
  until thick and foamy. Slowly beat in remaining sugar and water. Sift
  together flour and baking powder. Slowly add yolk mixture. Stir in
  lemon rind. Fold egg whites into egg yolk mixture until well blended.
  Bake 25 to 30 mins., or until cake springs back when lightly touched
  with finger. Allow to cool. Remove from pans and peel off waxed paper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ZUPPA INGLESE SPONGE CAKE+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Italian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------SPONGE CAKE-----------------------------
      6    Whole eggs, separated
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2    Tablespoons lemon juice
  1 1/2    Tabsp grated orange rind
      2    Tablespoons sherry
           Or
      1    Teaspoon almond extract
      1 c  Cake flour
    1/2    Teaspoon salt
 
  Have ingredients at room temperature at least an hour before baking.
  Beat egg yolks until thick and lemon colored. Beat in sugar, lemon
  juice, orange rind and sherry. Beat until foamy. Sift flour three
  times and fold into egg yolks gently but thoroughly.  Beat egg whites
  until foamy, add salt and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold in
  yolks. Pour batter into ungreased 9-inch spring-from pan and bake in
  moderate oven (350), 50 to 60 min. Test by pressing lightly with
  finger tip; if cake springs back at once, it is done.
   Leave cake in pan to cool, and invert on wire rack. Remove from pan
  after thoroughly cooled and cut into 4 layers. Fill between layers
  with a custard filling.
   Spread with sweetened whipped cream over top and sides of cake,
  sprinkle w/candied fruit. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RUM CAKE FRACCARO+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Italian
      Yield: 14 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------***CAKE***------------------------------
      6    Eggs
    2/3 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Flour, sifted twice

MMMMM-------------------***CHERRY RUM SYRUP***------------------------
      1 c  Maraschino cherry syrup
           (from cherries)
    1/4 c  Rum

MMMMM-------------------***PASTILLERA CREAM***------------------------
      2 c  Milk
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2    Teaspoon grated lemon peel
      1    Teaspoon vanilla
    1/4 c  Flour

MMMMM----------------***WHIPPED CREAM TOPPING***---------------------
      2 c  Whipping cream
      2    Tablespoons sugar
      1    Teaspoon vanilla
 
  Combine eggs, sugar and vanilla in the top of a double boiler. Beat
  over boiling water for 3-4 minutes. Remove from heat and continue to
  whip with a mixer on high speed for 8 minutes until mixture becomes
  thick and doubles in size. Fold in flour. Pour into 3 greased and
  floured 9-inch round baking pans. Bake for 35-40 minutes at 350
  degrees. Cool on a wire rack. ***CHERRY RUM SYRUP*** Mix together
  cherry syrup and rum and reserve. ***PASTILLERA CREAM*** Scald milk.
  Combine eggs, sugar, lemon peel, vanilla and flour in a small bowl.
  Pour in the scalded milk, then transfer this mixture to the top of a
  double boiler and cook over boiling water, stirring constantly, for
  4-5 minutes until mixture becomes thick. Let cool. Beat whippping
  cream until stiff peaks form. Fold in sugar and vanilla. Reserve.
  ***WHIPPED CREAM TOPPING*** Sprinkle each cake layer with cherry-rum
  
  syrup. Spread pastillera cream between the layers. Spread whipped
  cream topping on the top and sides of the cake. Press sliced roasted
  almonds onto the sides of the cake. Pipe whipped cream onto the top
  if desired. Refrigerate until serving time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ZABAGLIONE ALLE FRAGIOLE+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Desserts, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pn Fresh strawberries
      1 tb Plus
      1 ts Lemon juice
      5    Egg yolks
  1 1/2 c  White wine
           A splash of marsala wine
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3 dr Vanilla
 
  1. Sprinkle the strawberries with lemon juice and set aside. 2. Mix
  all remaining ingredients, including the 1 teaspoon lemon juice, in a
  copper pot. 3. Over a medium fire, beat vigorously until the mixture
  thickens. Do not let the mixture come to a boil. 4. Pour the
  zabaglione over the strawberries. It is very important not to let the
  mixture come to a boil. If necessary, remove the pot from the fire
  from time to time until of desired consistency.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STRAWBERRIES ALBERTO+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Chianti
      2 c  Sugar
      6    To
      7    Thin slices lemon
      2 pn Ripe strawberries
           Hulled and sliced
 
  FAWN STREET, BALTIMORE. WINE: BOLLA AMARONE 1. Mix wine with the
  sugar and lemon slices. Stir in the strawberries. Chill. Serve. Note:
  If the strawberries are very ripe & sweet you may not need so much
  sugar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CANTALOUPE SORBET+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Desserts, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           1 tbs. honey
           3 tbs. fresh lemon juice
           1 cup sugar
           1 cup water
      2    Large or
      3    Med Cantaloupes
           3 tbs. brandy
 
  W & S TEMPLE STS. SALT LAKE CITY BEV: HEIDSIECK CHAMPAGNE, 1979 1.
  Bring honey, lemon juice, sugar, and water to a boil over medium
  heat. Cook for 5 min.. Let cool. 2. Seed the cantaloupes. With a
  melon baller make 18 cantaloupe balls. Soak the melon balls in
  brandy. Set aside for garnish. 3. Cut the rest of the cantaloupe
  flesh into 1-inch pieces and puree in a food processor until there
  are 3 cups of puree. 4. Combine the cooled honey-sugar syrup and the
  cantaloupe puree. Mix well and freeze in an ice cream machine
  according to manufacturer's instructions. Transfer to a plastic
  container and store in the freezer until needed, no more than 3 days.
  5. Allow the frozen sorbet to thaw slightly before serving to enhance
  the flavor. Serve with brandied cantaloupe balls as a garnish. Note:
  Honeydew melon may be substituted, then substitute lime juice for
  lemon juice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RICOTTA SOUFFLES WITH RASPBERRY SAUCE
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
    1/4 c  Sugar; divided
      1 tb Sugar; divided
  1 1/2 c  Onfat ricotta cheese
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ds Ground cinnamon
      1    Egg yolk
      2    Egg whites
        ds Salt
           Vegetable cooking spray
           Raspberry Sauce
           -(se seperate recipe)
      2 ts Powdered sugar
 
  Position knife blade in food processor bowl; add 1/4 cup sugar,
  cheese, and next 5 ingredients. Process 1 minute or until smooth,
  scraping sides of processor bowl once. Spoon mixture into a large
  bowl, and set aside. Beat egg whites (at room temperature) and salt
  at high speed of an electric mixer until foamy. Gradually add
  remaining tablespoon sugar, beating until soft peaks form. Gently
  fold egg white mixture into cheese mixture. Spoon mixture evenly into
  4 (6-oz.) souffle cups coated with cooking spray. Place souffle cups
  in a 13- x 9- x 2-inch baking pan; add hot water to pan to depth of 1
  inch. Bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes or until puffed and golden.
  Remove cups from baking pan. Make a 2-inch-deep slash through center
  of each souffle; spoon 2 tablespoons Raspberry Sauce into each
  souffle. Sprinkle each with 1/2 teaspoon powdered sugar; serve
  immediately. 4 servings (serving size: 1 souffle and 2 T sauce).
  Calories: 242 (6% from fat), 1.7 g fat, 63 mg chol, 111 mg sodium.
  
  COMMENTS: A crimson-colored raspberry sauce drapes
  
  these airy ricotta souffles....and better yet, they're low in fat!
  
  Source: Cooking Light Magazine - May/June, 1993
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ZUCHINNI-LEMON BARS
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
  1 1/4 c  SUGAR
      1 c  OIL
      3    EGGS
      2 ts LEMON RIND; GRATED
    1/4 c  LEMON JUICE
  1 3/4 c  ZUCCHINI; SHREDDED
      2 c  FLOUR
    1/4 ts BAKING POWDER
      2 ts SODA
      1 ts SALT
      1 c  WALNUTS; CHOPPED
           POWDERED SUGAR; SIFTED
 
     Combine 1 1/4cups sugar, oil, eggs, lemon rind, and lemon jice in a
  large mixing bowl; mix well. Stir in zucchini.
     Combine flour, baking powder, soda, and salt; gradually add to
  zucchini mixture, stirring well. Stir in walnuts. Pour batter into a
  greased 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Bake at 350d for 45-50 minutes or
  until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool; dust
  top with sifted powdered sugar.  Cut into bars. Yield: 2 dozen
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KAESEKUCHEN/ Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Desserts, Aust/german, Appetizers
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 c  Cottage cheese
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Sugar
      4    Whole eggs
    1/2    Lemon; grated peel
    1/4 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Raisins
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
      1 ts Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 c  Almonds; grated

MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      2 c  Flour
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
           Pinch of salt
      1 ts Baking powder
 
  The cheesecake you are referring to is quarkkuchen. To the best of my
  knowledge, the closest thing to "quark" would be pureed or strained
  cottage cheese.
    Here's a recipe for you. Prepare dough and with it line bottom and
  sides of a greased cake tin. Strain cottage cheese, stir in cream.
  Add sugar, eggs, grated lemon peel, vanilla, raisins and cornstarch.
  Mix flour and baking soda and add. Pour batter into dough lining, top
  with grated almonds and bake in 375F oven for about 1 hour.  When
  done, cool cake in a warm place.  Do not chill. CRUST; Mix all
  ingredients and, on a bread board, knead to a supple dough.  Roll out
  and use as instructed in above recipe. In view of the large butter
  content of this dough, it should be thoroughly cooled before baking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRESH STRAWBERRY GLACE
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Strawberries; thinly sliced
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Strawberry syrup;

MMMMM-----------------------------OR----------------------------------
    3/4 c  Strawberry syrup and water
  3 1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 tb Water
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
 
  Combine strawberries and sugar and let stand 30 minutes. Bring to a
  boil, and simmer 3 minutes. Strain through wire sieve. Measure
  strawberry syrup, adding water if necessary to make 3/4 cup. Pour
  into small saucepan. Mix cornstarch,  water,  and  lemon juice; add
  to strawberry syrup. Bring to a boil, and cook gently 4 to 6 minutes,
  or until thickened. Cool
    slightly and spread over cake which has been frosted
    with Fresh Strawberry Frosting, letting it run down on sides. Let
  stand about 1 hour to allow glace to become firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRESH STRAWBERRY FROSTING
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Strawberries; sliced, fresh
      2    Egg whites; unbeaten
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      5 tb Strawberry puree
    3/4 ts Light corn syrup
    1/4 ts Lemon juice
 
  Press strawberries through a fine wire sieve  Combine egg whites,
  sugar, 5 tablespoons strawberry puree, corn syrup, and lemon juice in
  top of double boiler, beating with rotary egg beater until thoroughly
  mixed. Place over rapidly boiling water, beating constantly with
  rotary egg beater, and cook 6 to 7 minutes, or until frosting will
  stand in peaks. Remove from boiling water and beat until thick enough
  to spread. Makes enough frosting to cover tops and sides of two
  8-inch layers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SUNSHINE LOAF CAKE
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 3/4 c  Cake flour; sifted
  2 3/4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Butter
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      8    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
 
  Sift flour onnce, then measure, add baking powder and salt, and sift
  together three times.  Cream butter thoroughly, add sugar gradually,
  and cream together until light and fluffy. Beat egg yolks very
  thoroughly with rotary egg beater until light colored and thick
  enough to fall from beater in heavy continuous stream. Add to creamed
  mixture and beat until very smooth, almost waxy in appearance.  Add
  flour, alternately with milk, a small amount at a time, beating very
  thoroughly after each addition. When all flour is added, beat
  thoroughly again. Add lemon extract. Bake in greased pan, 13x9x2
  inches, in moderate oven (350 deg.F.) 45 minutes. Spread Orange
  Butter Frosting (see Recipe) on top and sides of cake. Note: This
  cake requires especially thorough beating of egg yolks and cake
  mixture throughout the mixing process to make it very fine grained
  and light
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON LAYER CAKE
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Cake flour; sifted
      2 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon rind; grated
    2/3 c  Butter; or shortening
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs; unbeaten
      6 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Water
 
  Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt and sift.
  together three times. Add lemon rind to butter. and cream thoroughly;
  add sugar gradually and cream together until light and flfy. Add
  eggs, one at a time beating thoroughly after each. Add flour,
  alternately with combined lemon juice and water, a small amount at a
  time beating after each addition until smooth. Bake in two greased
  9-inch layer pans in moderate oven (375 degrees F.) 20 minutes, or
  until done. Spread Luscious Lemon Frosting (see recipe) between
  layers and on top and sides of cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KATE'S PARTY CAKE
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  Cake Flour; sifted
  4 1/2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon rind; grated
    3/4 c  Butter; or shortening
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      5    Egg whites; stiffly beaten
      3    Egg yolks; well beaten
 
  Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt and sift together
  three times. Add lemon rind to butter and cream thoroughly. Add sugar
  gradually, and cream together until light and fluffy. Add flour,
  alternately with milk, a small amount at a time, beating after each
  addition until smooth. Add vanilla. Fold in egg whites quickly and
  thoroughly. Fill greased 10-inch layer pan with one-third of mixture.
  To remaining mixture, add egg yolks and blend. Turn into two greased
  10-inch layer pans. Bake layers in moderate oven (375 degrees F.) 25
  to 30 minutes. Arrange white layer between yellow layers, Spread
  Orange Filling (see recipe) between layers and Orange Mist Frosting
  (see recipe) on top and sides of cake. Sprinkle top with orange
  coconut, made by blending 4 oz. shredded coconut and 1 1/2 teaspoons
  grated orange rind.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE FILLING
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      5 tb Cake Flour
      1 ds Salt
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Water
      1    Egg; well beaten
      2 ts Orange rind; grated
      2 ts Butter
 
  Combine sugar, flour, and salt in top of double boiler; add fruit
  juice, water, and egg, mixing thoroughly. Place over boiling water
  and cookr 10 minutes, stirring constantly. Add orange rind and
    butter. Cool. Makes enough filling to spread between
    two 9-inch layers (generously), or between three
    10-inch layers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APRICOT CREAM TOPPING
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 tb Sugar
      5 tb Cake flour
      1 ds Salt
      4 tb Apricot juice; canned
      1 c  Apricot pulp; use cand fruit
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Cream; whipped
 
  Combine sugar, flour and salt in top of a double boiler; add apricot
  juice and mix thoroughly.  Sieve well drained apricots to obtain 1 c.
  pulp and add gradually to flour mixture, stirring until blended.
   Place over rapidly boiling water and cook 5 to 7 minutes, stirring
  constantly.  Add lemon juice.
   Chill.  Fold in cream.  Makes 3 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE LEMON FROSTING
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ts Orange rind; grated
    1/2 ts Lemon rind; grated
      3 tb Butter
      2    Egg whites; unbeaten
      1 ds Salt
      4 c  Conf. sugar; sifted
      1 ts Orange juice; approx.
      1 ts Lemon juice; approx.
           Orange food coloring
 
  ADd orange and lemon rinds to butter and cream well.
   Add egg whites and salt and blemns.  Add sugar, alternately with
  fruit juices, beating until smooth and of right consistency to
  spread. Add coloring.
   Makes frosting to cover top of 1 8x8x2" layer and sides of 2 layers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: COCONUT LEMON FILLNG
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Flour; or 10 tablespoons
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon rind; grated
      1 tb Butter
      8 oz Coconut; shredded
 
  <1>     x   Cornstarch Combine 2 cups water, lemon juice, salt, and 1
  cup sugar in top of double boiler and bring to a boil over direct
  heat. Place over boiling water. Add 1 cup water gradually to flour,
  mixing to a smooth paste. Add gradually to hot mixture and cook 5
  minutes, stirring constantly. Beat egg yolks with 1/2 cup sugar; add
  slowly to lemon mixture, cook 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Add
  lemon rind and butter. Cool 10 minutes. Makes 4-2/3 cups filling, or
  enough to spread between layers and on top and sides of three 9-inch
  layers. Sprinkle coconut generously on sides of cake. Decorate top of
  cake with a 1-inch border of coconut.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON COCONUT CAKE
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Cake Flour; sifted
      3 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter; or shortening
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      4    Egg whites; stiffly beaten
 
  Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt, sift together
  three times. Cream butter thoroughly, add sugar gradually, and cream
  together until light and fluffy. Add flour, altemately with milk, a
  small amount at a time, beating after each addtion until smooth. Add
  lemon extract. Fold in egg whites quickly and thoroughly. Bake in
  three greased 9-inch layer pans in moderate oven 375 degrees F.) 25
  to 30 minutes. Spread Coconut Lemon Filling (see recipe) 1/2-inch
  thick on top of layers and let stand until filling is set then adjust
  layers and spread remaining filling on sides of cake. Sprinkle
  Coconut generously on sides and top of cake. Decorate top of cake
  with a 1-inch border of coconut.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON FILLING
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      5 tb Cake Flour
      1 ds Salt
      1    Egg

MMMMM-----------------------------OR----------------------------------
      2    Egg yolks; slightly beaten
    2/3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Lemon rind
      2 ts Butter
 
  Combine sugar, flour, and salt in top of double boiler; add egg,
  water, and lemon juice, mixing thoroughly. Place over boiling water
  and cook 10 minutes,  stirring  constantly. Add lemon rind  and
  butter. Cool. Makes about 1 1/3 cups filling, or enough filling for
  two 8x8-inch layers, or three 9-inch layers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TART LEMON FROSTING
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Lemon rind; grated
      4 tb Butter
      3 c  Conf. sugar; sifted
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 ds Salt
 
  Add lemon rind to butter; cream well. Add part of sugar gradually,
  blending after each  addition.  Add remaining sugar, altemately with
  lemon juice, until of right consistency to spread. Beat thoroughly
  after each addition. Add salt. Makes enough frosting to cover the top
  of one layer and sides of three 9-inch layers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON ICE
 Categories: Desserts, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      2 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon peel; grated fresh
    2/3 c  Lemon juice; fresh
 
  Makes about 3 cups or 6 servings In saucepan boil sugar and water 5
  minutes; cool.  Pour into large bowl of mixer and stir in lemon peel
  and juice. Freeze until mushy. Beat until smooth. Freeze again, then
  beat again.  Spread in chilled shallow 8" X 8" metal pan or 2 ice
  trays. Freeze until firm.  Cover airtight Nice n'
  easy...time-wise...I don't remember how long it took.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMONADE PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Appetizers, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Lg Cool whip; partially thaw
      1    Sm Lemonade; pink or regular
           Rind ;  one lemon
 
  FOLD altogether and put in baking dish to cut into squares after it
  set up, or in a graham cracker pie crust. Place in refrigerator for
  at least 12 hours. If it doesn't set up well, freeze for about 1/2
  hour.
   I've had it set up beautifully at times, and at other times really
  be too runny to be pretty! A sprig of mint on top makes it especially
  good to look at.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oranges in Wine
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Appetizers
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Cinnamon
      1 c  Water
      4    Lemon slices
      1 c  Red wine
 
  Heat sugar & water until sugar dissolves. Add remaining ingredients
  and bring to boil.  Simmer 15 minutes, strain and pour over oranges.
  Chill at least 4 hours. Present in crystal bowl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Flan
 Categories: Ethnic, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Milk
           Peel of 1 lemon
      1    Cinnamon stick
      5    Eggs, beaten
  1 1/2    Packets unflavored gelatin,
           Dissolved in 1/4 cup of
           Warm water
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Custard mold
 
  In a saucepan, scald milk (warm milk and lemon peel until mixture is
  very hot but not boiling).  Add gelatin to beaten egg mixture, beat
  to ensure that they are adequately mixed and add to the milk,
  together with sugar. Stir until mixture begins to boil and then
  immediately remove from stove. In another saucepan over low heat,
  heat 5 tbsp. sugar until sugar begins to carmelize.  Pour caramelized
  sugar into mold, following with flan mixture. Allow to cool to room
  temperature, then refrigerate overnight. To remove, place mold in hot
  water for a few seconds and then invert mold onto a serving plate.
  Serve chilled.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Nectarine Cake by Charlotte
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk D.Hines Lemon Sup. cake mix
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Apricot Nectar
      4    Eggs (or 1 cup Egg Beaters)
      1 c  Wessin Oil
 
  Combine the above ingredients. Pour the mixture into BUNDT pan. Bake
  for 55 minutes at 375 degrees.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kiflies by Helen
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12    Eggs separated-save whites
      6 c  Flour-not sifted
    1/4 c  Lemon Rind (very fine)
  1 1/2 pk Powder Sugar (2 boxes) *
      1 lb Butter
    1/2 pt Sour Cream
      3 lb Grated Nuts *
     24    Egg Whites (or more) *
 
  Make into small balls (tablespoone size), place in refrigerator
  overnight. Roll out to the size of a saucer and fill with filling
  (*). Bake at 350 degrees for 10-12 minutes.
  
       The less handing the flakier the Kiflies are. I cut my butter
  into the flour, by rubbing it between by hands. Mix or cream egg
  yolks and lemon rind, together. Then add to flour, and mix until all
  is blended. Then make into balls.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crescent Roll Kolack by Alice
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 cn Crescent Rolls-refrigerated
      1    Lemon rind*
    1/3 c  Sugar*
     12 oz Walnuts-chopped*
    1/2 c  Water*
      1 tb Butter*
 
  * Filling 1. Pastry
     a. To make 4 large Kolack; divide each can into two; roll out;
  putting
        in filling; roll.
     b. To make 8 small Kolach; divide each can into four; roll out;
  put in
        filling; roll. 2. Filling
     a. Combine 1/2 cup water and 1/3 cup sugar. Make a syrup of this;
  boil
        1 minute.
     b. Cool then add nuts, lemon rind and 1 tablespoon of butter 3.
  Bake at 350 degrees, for 30-35 minutes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ITALIAN CHEESECAKE
 Categories: Desserts, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
           Shortbread; See Recipe # 22
           Use Ameretto and Lemon Rind

MMMMM-------------------------CHEESECAKE------------------------------
  3 1/4 c  Riccotta Cheese; 30 Oz
      4    Eggs; Large
    2/3 c  Sugar; Granulated
    1/4 c  Unbleached Flour
    1/4 c  Ameretto Liqueur
      3 tb Golden Raisins
      1 tb Candied Orange Rind; *
      1 tb Candied Lemon Rind; *
 
  *    Finely Chop the fruit rinds. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.
  Press the ricotta through a sieve.  In a large mixing bowl, beat
  together the drained cheese, eggs, sugar, and flour. Stir in the
  liqueur, raisins and fruits.  Pour the mixture into the prepared
  crust and bake for 1 hour. Remove the cake from the oven and cool to
  room temperature. Chill before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPICY WINE FRUIT
 Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Cinnamon stick,2"
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 pk Mixed dried fruit(11oz)
      6    Whole cloves
    1/2 c  Sweet red wine
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Bananas
 
  Tie cinnamon stick and cloves in cheesecloth bag. Heat cheesecloth
  bag, water, wine, sugar and lemon juice to boiling in 2-quart
  saucepan. Stir in dried fruit. Heat to boiling; reduce heat. Simmer
  uncovered, stirring occasionally, until fruit is plump and tender, 10
  to 15 minutes. Refrigerate uncovered, stirring ocaasionally, at least
  3 hours but no longer than 24 hours.
  Remove cheesecloth bag. Slice bananas and stir into fruit mixture
  until coated with syrup. Drain fruit, reserving syrup. Serve fruit
  with some of the reserved syrup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RED WINE APPLE PIE
 Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 c  Tart apples,cored/thin slice
    1/4 c  Sweet red wine
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 c  All-purpose flour(see NOTE1)
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Shortening
      5 tb Cold water
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Sugar
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese
    2/3 c  Shortening
    2/3 c  Lard
 
  Place apples. 3/4 cup sugar, the wine and lemon juice in 3-quart
  saucepan. Cover and cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally,
  until apples are just tender, 7 to 8 minutes.
  Mix 1/4 cup flour, 2 tablespoons sugar and 1/8 teaspoon salt; stir
  into apple mixture. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and
  stir 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in butter. Cool to room
  temperature.
  Heat oven to 425'. Measure 2 cups flour, the cheese and 1 teaspoon
  salt into bowl; cut in shortening or lard. Sprinkle in water, 1
  tablespoon at a time, mixing until all flour is moistened and pastry
  almost cleans side of bowl (1 to 2 teaspoons water can be added if
  necessary.)
  Gather pastry into ball; divide in half and shape into 2 flattened
  rounds on lightly floured cloth-covered board. Roll one round 2
  inches larger than inverted 8-inch pie plate with floured
  stockinet-covered rolling pin. Fold pastry into quarters; place in
  pie plate. Unfold and ease into pie plate.
  Turn apple mixture into pastry-lined pie plate. Trim overhanging edge
  of pastry 1/2 inch from rim of pie plate. Roll second round of
  pastry. Fold into quarters; cut slits so steam can escape. Place over
  filling and unfold. Trim overhanging edge of pastry 1 inch from rim
  of pie plate. Fold and roll top edge under lower edge, pressing on
  rim to seal; flute. Cover edge with 2- to 3-inch strip of sluminum
  foil to prevent excess browning. Bake 25 to 30 minutes; remove foil.
  Bake 15 minutes.
  NOTE1: If using self-rising flour, omit 1 teaspoon salt. Pie crusts
  made with self-rising flour difer in flavor and texture from those
  made with plain flour.
  NOTE2: If desired, 1 package (11 ounces) pie crust mix or sticks can
  be substituted for the pastry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: WHITE WINE MOLD
 Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Dry white wine
      2 c  Water
      1    Grated peel of lemon
      1    Orange in slices
      2 pk Unflavored gelatin
      1 cn Frozen orange juice(6oz)
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 c  Whipping cream,whipped
 
  Mix sugar and gelatin in 3-quart saucepan; stir in wine, orange juice
  concentrate, water and lemon juice. Heat to boiling, stirring
  constantly. Boil and stir 1 minute. Remove from heat. Stir in lemon
  peel. Refrigerate until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from
  spoon, about 2 1/2 hours.
  Fold chilled gelatin mixture into whipped cream. Pour into 7-cup mold.
  Refrigerate until firm, about 12 hours. Unmold and garnish with orange
  slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SORBET AU SAUTERNE (SAUTERNE SHERBET)
 Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      2 ts Unflavored gelatin
      1 c  Water
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Water
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Water
      2    Egg whites
 
  Mix gelatin and 1/2 cup sugar in 2-quart saucepan. Stir in 1 cup
  water and the salt. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and
  stir 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in wine and lemon juice. Cool
  to room temperature. Pour into ice cube tray. Freeze until mushy and
  partially frozen, about 1 hour 20 minutes.
  Heat 1 cup sugar, 1/2 cup water and the cream of tartar to boiling in
  1 1/2-quart saucepan over medium heat, stirring constantly. Boil,
  without stirring, to 240' on candy thermometer. Beat egg whites in
  small mixer bowl until soft peaks form. Continue beating while
  pouring hot syrup in thin stream into egg whites. Beat until mixture
  is cool, about 8 minutes.
  Sppon partially frozen mixture into chilled large mixer bowl. Beat
  with rotary beater until fluffy; fold in egg white mixture. Pour into
  ungreased baking pan, 9x9x2 inches. Freeze until firm, about 3 hours.
  Serve in chilled sherbet glasses.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PEACHES IN WINE
 Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Sweet white wine
      1 cn Sliced peaches(16oz)
 
  Heat sugar, wine and lemon juice in 1 1/2-quart saucepan over medium
  heat until sugar is dissolved; pour over peaches. Cover and
  refrigerate, stirring occasionally, until chilled, about 1 hour.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: WINE CREAM ROLL
 Categories: Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3    Eggs
    1/3 c  Water
      1 c  Cake flour*
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 c  Dry white wine
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1 pk Frozen strawberries(10oz)
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Granulated sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking powder
           Powdered sugar
      4 ts Cornstarch
      2    Eggs,slightly beaten
      2 tb Cornstarch
    3/4 c  Currant jelly
 
  Heat oven to 375'. Line jelly roll pan, 16x11x1 inch, with aluminum
  foil; grease. Beat 3 eggs in small mixer bowl until very thick and
  lemon colored, about 5 minutes; pour into large mixer bowl. Beat in 1
  cup granulated sugar gradually. On low speed, mix in water and
  vanilla. Add flour, baking powder and salt gradually, beating just
  until batter is smooth. Pour into pan, spreading batter to corners.
  Bake until wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 12 to 15
  minutes.
  Loosen cake from edges of pan; invert on towel sprinkled with powdered
  sugar. Remove foil; trim stiff edges if necessary. While hot, roll
  cake and towel beginning at narrow end. Cool on wire rack.
  Mix 1/3 cup granulated sugar and 4 teaspooons cornstarch in 2-quart
  saucepan. Stir in wine. Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly,
  until mixture thickens and boils. Boil and stir 1 minute. Remove from
  heat. Stir in butter. Refrigerate until chilled.
  Unroll cake and remove towel. Spread filling over roll to within 1/4
  inch of edges; roll up. Refrigerate at least 1 hour.
  Mix 2 tablespoons cornstarch and the reserved strawberry syrup. Heat
  strawberries and jelly to boiling in 1 1/2-quart saucepan. Stir in
  cornstarch mixture. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and
  stir 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in lemon juice; cool. Serve
  with cake.
  *NOTE: If self-rising flour is used, omit baking powder and salt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE SLICE FRUITCAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Orange slice candy, cut up
      2 c  Pecans, chopped
      8 oz Dates, cut up
      1 c  Coconut; grated
      2 c  All-purpose flour, divided
      1 c  Butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Butter
 
  Preheat oven to 300 degrees. Generously, grease and flour a tube pan;
  set aside. Mix together candy, pecans, dates, coconut and 1/4 cup of
  the flour; set aside. Cream butter and sugar until fluffy. Beat in
  eggs, one at a time. Stir in vanilla. Mix together baking soda, salt
  and remaining 1 3/4 cup flour; add alternately with buttermilk to the
  butter mixture. Add nut mixture; mix well. Pour batter into prepared
  pan and bake for 2 hours; remove from oven. For glaze: In small
  saucepan, combine orange juice, lemon juice, sugar and butter. Cook
  until sugar is dissolved. Spoon glaze over warm cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLUEBERRY & LEMON BREAD-AND-BUTTER PUDDING
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12    White bread slices
     60 g  Unsalted butter, softened
    400 g  Blueberries
      2 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Lemon juice,freshly squeezed
           -strained
      3    Eggs, lightly beaten
    3/4 c  Caster sugar
      3 tb Cointreau
    1/2 c  Orange marmalade
           Cream, to serve
 
  Spread bread with butter and arrange 4 slices, trimming as necessary,
  butter side down, over the base of a buttered 6-cup ovenproof dish.
  Sprinkle half the blueberries over the bread, top with another 4
  slices of bread and remaining blueberries.  Cut each remaining bread
  slice into 3 strips and arrange in a lattice pattern over the
  blueberries.
  
  Whisk together the milk, lemon juice, eggs, sugar, 1 tablespoon of
  Cointreau and a pinch of salt in a bowl.  Pour evenly over bread in
  dish, cover and stand at room temperature for 1 hour, or chill
  overnight.
  
  Heat marmalade with remaining Cointreau in a small saucepan over
  medium heat until melted and well combined.  Brush over surface of
  pudding.
  
  Place the dish in a baking pan and pour in enough hot water to reach
  halfway up sides of dish.  Bake at 180C for 50 minutes or until
  custard is just set.
  
  Serve pudding warm or at room temperature with cream, if desired.
  
  Source:  Australian Gourmet Traveller magazine Posted by: Mike Kear
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: INDIVIDUAL LEMON-MERINGUE BREAD PUDDINGS
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    White bread slices
           -crusts removed
      2 c  Milk
     40 g  Butter, melted
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs, separated
           -plus 1 egg white
           Finely grated rind and juice
           -of one lemon
      2 tb Caster sugar
 
  Spread bread slices in a single layer on an oven tray and place in a
  200C oven.  Turn oven off and leave for 4-5 hours, or until dried.
  Process bread to fine crumbs in a food processor - can be done ahead
  and stored in an airtight conainer until required.
  
  Bring milk almost to simmering point in a saucepan.  Pour over
  breadcrumbs in a bowl and mix to combine.   Set aside.   Whisk
  butter, sugar, egg yolks, lemon rind and juice together.   Stir into
  the breadcrumb mixture and spoon into 6 buttered 1/2 cup souffle
  dishes. Place in a baking pan and pour in enogh hot water to reach
  halfway up the sides of the dishes. Bake at 180C for 30 minutes.
  
  Beat the egg whites until soft peaks form.  gradually add caster
  sugar and beat until thick and glossy.  Top puddings with meringue
  mixture, return to the oven and bake for 10 minutes longer, or until
  golden.
  
  Source:  Australian Gourmet Traveller Magazine Posted by: Mike Kear
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ANNIE MAE'S LEMONY CHEESE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 pk Gelatin,unflavored
    1/2 c  Water,cold
      3    Eggs,separated
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ds Salt
      2 ts Lemon rind,grated
      3 tb Lemon juice
      4 c  Cottage cheese
      1 c  Cream

MMMMM-------------------GRAHAM CRACKER CRUSTS------------------------
      2 c  Graham cracker crumbs
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Melted butter

MMMMM-----------------------LEMON TOPPING----------------------------
      2    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Butter
      1 ts Lemon rind,grated
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      3 tb Water
 
  1. Sprinkle gelatin over cold water and allow to stand until softened.
  Combine egg yolks, sugar, milk, and salt in top half of a double
  boiler and cook over shimmering water, stirring frequently until
  custard thickens and coats the spoon.
  2. Place lemon rind, lemon juice, and cottage cheese in container of
  electric blender and blend until smooth. Combine with cooled custard
  and blend well. Chill until mixture begins to thicken.
  3. Beat egg whites and cream separately until stiff; fold into cottage
  cheese mixture. Pour into 2 Graham Cracker Crusts and chill until
  firm. Spread with lemon custard topping before serving.
  
  *** GRAHAM CRACKER CRUSTS ***
  1. Preheat oven to 300'F.
  2. Combine all ingredients in a large bowl. Press mixture evenly
  across bottom and sides of 2 8-9" pie pans and bake in preheated oven
  for 5-10 minutes. Chill well before filling.
  
  *** LEMON TOPPING FOR CHEESE CAKE ***
  Combine egg yolks, sugar, butter rind, and lemon juice in top half of
  a double boiler. Cook over simmering water until quite thick, then
  cool slightly. Mix cornstarch with water and stir into lemon mixture.
  Cool before spreading on cheese cakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON TOPPING FOR CHEESE CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3 tb Butter
      1 ts Lemon rind,grated
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
      3 tb Water
 
  Combine egg yolks, sugar, butter rind, and lemon juice in top half of
  a double boiler. Cook over simmering water until quite thick, then
  cool slightly. Mix cornstarch with water and stir into lemon mixture.
  Cool before spreading on cheese cakes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ANNIE MAE JONES' COCONUT CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Buttermilk
    1/4 lb Butter,at room temperature
  1 1/3 c  Sugar
      2    Egg yolks
      2 c  Flour,all-purpose
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Lemon rind,grated
      2    Egg whites

MMMMM-------------------LEMON-COCONUT FILLING------------------------
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Water,boiling
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Coconut grated
      1 tb Butter

MMMMM----------------------COCONUT FROSTING---------------------------
      2    Egg whites
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Light corn syrup
  1 1/2 c  Coconut,grated
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350'F.
  2. Grease and flour 2 9" layer cake pans.
  3. Add soda to buttermilk, stir to blend, and set aside.
  4. Cream butter with sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg yolks one
  at a time and beat well after each addition.
  5. Sift flour with salt and baking powder onto waxed paper. Add flour
  mixture alternately with buttermilk to butter a little at a time and
  blend well after each addition. Stir in lemon rind.
  6. In a separate bowl beat egg whites until stiff, then fold into
  batter. Pour into prepared pans and bake in preheated oven for about
  30 minutes. Remove from pans onto cake rack until cool. Put layers
  together with Lemon-Coconut Filling, frost with Coconut Frosting, and
  sprinkle with coconut.
  
  *** LEMON-COCONUT FILLING ***
  Mix together sugar and cornstarch in a saucepan. Add boiling water and
  lemon juice; stir in coconut. Bring to a full boil over high heat,
  stirring frequently. Reduce heat slightly and let boil, stirring
  constantly, for 1 minute. Remove from heat and stir in butter. Cool
  to room temperature. Stir; spread between cakes layers.
  
  *** COCONUT FROSTING ***
  1. Combine all ingredients except coconut in top of double boiler.
  Beat 1 minute to blend, then place over boiling water and beat with
  rotary hand or electric beater until stiff peaks form, stirring
  mixture up from bottom and sides of pan occasionally.
  2. Transfer to a large bowl and beat 1 minute more, or until thick
  enough to spread.
  3. Frost cake, then sprinkle generously with grated coconut.
  4. Makes sufficient frosting for sides and top of 2 9" cake layers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON-COCONUT FILLING
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Water,boiling
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Coconut grated
      1 tb Butter
 
  Mix together sugar and cornstarch in a saucepan. Add boiling water and
  lemon juice; stir in coconut. Bring to a full boil over high heat,
  stirring frequently. Reduce heat slightly and let boil, stirring
  constantly, for 1 minute. Remove from heat and stir in butter. Cool
  to room temperature. Stir; spread between cakes layers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMONY SWEET POTATO PIE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3    Egg yolks
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Flour
  1 1/2 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Lemon peel,grated
      2 tb Butter,at room temperature
      1 c  Sweet potatoes,mashed,cooked
      1    Pie shell,unbaked,9"
           Sweetened whipped cream
 
  1. Preheat oven to 400'F.
  2. Beat egg yolks with sugar and flour. Add milk, lemon extract, lemon
  peel, butter, and mashed potatoes; beat until well blended.
  3. Pour into unbaked pie shell and place on middle rack of preheated
  oven. Bake 10 minutes, then reduce heat to 325'F. and continue to
  bake until pie is firm. Serve warm topped with well-chilled sweetened
  whipping cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON TEA CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Large eggs
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans

MMMMM------------------------LEMON SAUCE-----------------------------
      3 tb Grated lemon peel
      6 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Sugar
 
  1. In a bowl, beat with a mixer to blend butter, sugar, eggs, milk,
  and vanilla. Stir in flour and pecans until four is evenly moistened.
  Pour batter into an oiled and flour-dusted 8" square pan. Bake in a
  350'F. oven until cake is lightly browned and springs back when
  pressed in center, about 45 minutes.
  2. Run a knife between cake and pan rim; hold a rack onto pan top.
  Invert to release cake, then tip back into pan. Pierce cake top all
  over with a fork and pour hot lemon sauce over surface. Serve hot or
  warm; cut from pan or serve from a platter.
  
  *** LEMON SAUCE ***
  In a 1 1/2 quart pan over high heat, stir lemon peel, lemon juice, and
  sugar just until sugar is dissolved. Use hot.
  
  ~ Yvonne Visteen, Portland, Oregon.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CANDIED CITRUS PEEL
 Categories: Candies, Fruit, Snacks
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Citrus peel, cut into strips
           -from:
      4    To 5 medium oranges
      6    Med. lemons
      2    Med. to large grapefruit
     12 c  Cold water
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Honey
  1 3/4 c  Boiling water
 
  From: Arizona Cookbook
  
  Wash fruit. Score peel into quarters. Remove sections of peel with
  fingers; cut into uniform strips about 3/8 in. wide. Boil peel with 6
  cups cold water, uncovered, for 10 minutes. Drain and rinse. Repeat
  process with 6 cups fresh water.
  
  In a large saucepan, combine 1 1/2 cups sugar, honey and boiling
  water. Bring to a boil, and boil about one minute. Add cooked,
  drained peel and briskly simmer until almost all of the syrup has
  been absorbed, about 30 to 40 minutes. Stir frequently to
  
  avoid sticking.
  
  Transfer peel to collander. Drain well, about 10 minutes. In large
  bowl, toss drained peel with remianing 1 cup sugar to coat well.
  Spread pieces out on waxed paper to dry. Store in tightly covered
  container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE CREAM CAKE
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Cake flour, sifted
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar; sifted
    2/3 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      3    Egg white; stiffly beaten
           *=*
           -ORANGE FILLING*
      3 tb Cake flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Orange rind; grated
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  ;Water
      1    Egg; slightly beaten
      2 ts Butter
           *=*
           -SEVEN MINUTE FROSTING*
      2    Egg white; unbeaten
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      5 tb ;Water, cold
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Marshmallow; cut in eighths
      1 ts Corn syrup, light
 
  Servings: 12
  
  *=*                                  CAKE*
  
  Cake:  Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder, and sift together
  three times.  Cream shortening thoroughly, add sugar gradually, and
  cream together until light and fluffy.  Add flour, alternately with
  milk, a small amount at a time.  Beat after each addition until
  smooth. Add vanilla. Fold in egg whites.  Bake in two greased 9"
  layer pans in a 375 F. oven 25 to 30 minutes.  Put layers together
  with Orange Filling and cover top and sides of cake with Seven Minute
  Frosting. Decorate with mandarin orange sections. Filling: Combine
  ingredients in order given. Cook in a double boiler ten minutes,
  stirring constantly. Cool. Frosting: Put egg whites, sugar, water,
  corn syrup, and salt in top of double boiler and mix thoroughly.
  Place over rapidly boiling water and beat constantly with a rotary
  egg beater until the mixture will hold a peak (about seven minutes).
  Remove from hot water, add vanilla and marshmallows and beat until
  cool and thick enough to spread.
  
  New Cake Secrets, 1931 from *Cakes Men Like by Benjamin Darling
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE AND LEMON ICE BOX PUDDING
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 lb Sweet butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Egg yolks
      3    Egg whites stiffly beaten
           Juice of one orange
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
    1/2 pt Whipping cream
 
  Line 7" spring form with lady fingers.  Cream butter and sugar until
  light. Add egg yolks and mix until well blended.  Add juices. Fold in
  whipped cream and then egg whites. Pour into prepared pan.
  
  Chill until firm.  When ready to serve release spring form and top
  with
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON PARTY MERINGUE PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pkg.(4 serving size)Jello
           -Lemon flavored pudding and
           -pie
           Filling
    2/3 c  Sugar
  2 1/4 c  Water
      3    Egg yolks
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1    Baked 9" pie shell,cooled
      3    Egg whites
      6 tb Sugar
 
  Combine pie filling mix,2/3 cup sugar and 1/4 cup of water in
  saucepan.Blend in egg yolks and remaining water.Cook and stir over
  medium heat,until mixture comes to a full bubbling boil. Remove from
  heat.Blend in lemon juice and butter.Cool 5 minutes, stirring
  twice.Pour into pie shell. Beat egg whites until foamy
  throughout.Gradually beat in 6 tablespoons sugar and continue beating
  until mixture will form shiny peaks.Spread over pie filling.Bake @
  425 degrees for 5 to 10 minutes or until meringue is delicately
  brown.Cool at least 4 hour before cutting.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON CREAM DREAM *****
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     20    Girl Scout Lemon Cremes,
           -finely crushed
      2 tb Butter, melted
      1 pk Lemon pudding, instant (3
           -1/2 ounce)
      2 c  Milk
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      2 tb Powered sugar
      8 oz Prepared whipped topping (or
           -whipped cream)
      1 pt Strawberries, fresh
      4 oz Blueberries, fresh (or other
           -fruit)
 
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Combine the first two ingredients and press into a 9-inch pie pan.
  Prepare pudding with milk according to package directions. Mix cream
  cheese and powdered sugar together. Add pudding to cream cheese
  mixture; fold whipped topping into pudding mixture. Layer mixture and
  fresh fruit into prepared "cookie" pastry shell. Garnish with fresh
  fruit. Chill until serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON CREPES
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Grated lemon zest
      1 pn Salt
           Butter or oil for skillet
           Lemon Sauce:
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Lemons, sliced paper thin,
           -seeded
           Cream Filling:
      1 c  Heavy cream, cold
      2 ts Sugar
      1    Teaspon vanilla extract
 
  Info:  Good Food magazine, March 1986 posted by Perry Lowell,
  INTERCOOK Echo, Feb. '92
  
  Preparation:  50 minutes Cook: 15 minutes Plus: 2 hours to chill
  batter
  
  Crepe Batter:
  
  1.  Make crepe batter:  whisk egg and milk lightly together in medium
  mixing bowl. Add flour, sugar, lemon zest, and salt and whisk until
  smooth. Refrigerate covered at least 2 hours or overnight. 2. One
  hour before serving, make lemon sauce:  heat water and sugar in heavy
  medium saucepan until sugar dissolves.  Add lemon slices and simmer
  30 minutes. Cool to room temperature. 3. Make crepes: coat crepe pan
  on 6-inch nonstick skillet with thin layerof butter or oil. Heat pan
  over medium-high heat. Pour in 2 tablespoons of the crepe batter and
  quickly tilt pan to spread batter evenly.  Cook until bottom is
  golden and edge has pulled away from side of pan, about 3 minutes.
  Turn crepe and cook second side about 1 minute. Let cool on plate and
  repeat with remaining batter to make 8 crepes in all. (Crepes can be
  cooked in advance and refrigerated or frozen, tightly wrapped.  Warm
  in 300 degree oven before serving.) 4. Just before serving, make
  cream filling: beat cream, sugar, and vanilla in mixer bowl until
  stiff peaks form. 5. Place 2 crepes, golden side down, on each
  dessert plate.  Spoon cream filling onto each crepe and roll up,
  folding in edges and placing seam side down on plates. Pour 1/4 cup
  lemon sauce over each serving, and serve at once.
  
  Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.2
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON CREAM PAVE  %%%%%
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 20 servings
 
      4    Eggs, separated
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  All purpose flour

MMMMM----------------------LEMON RUM SAUCE---------------------------
    1/3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/3 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Dark rum

MMMMM------------------------LEMON CREAM-----------------------------
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold water
      4    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
    3/4 c  Lemon juice
      4 oz Cream cheese, softened
      1 c  Whipping cream

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Sifted icing sugar
      2 tb Dark rum
     10    Strawberries, halved
      2    Kiwifruit, peeled and thinly
           -sliced
      1    Mango, peeled and thinly
           -sliced
    1/2 c  Toasted sliced coconut **
    1/4 c  Toasted chopped pistachios
           -**
 
  Perfect for a crowd, this refreshing dessert can be made up to 2 days
  ahead. "PAVE" refers to the dessert's flat square shape, imitating
  tiles or paving stones. If you have time, it's fun to decorate each
  square differently.
  
  Grease 15 x 10 inch jelly roll pan; line with parchment paper.  Grease
  paper and sprinkle lightly with flour. Set aside. In bowl, beat egg
  yolks with sugar until light and fluffy; beat in lemon rind and juice
  and vanilla.  In separate bowl, beat egg whites until stiff but not
  dry peaks form; fold into yolk mixture. Gently fold in flour until
  thoroughly mixed. Spread in prepared pan; bake in 350 F oven for
  15-20 minutes or until golden and cake springs back when lightly
  touched. Let cool in pan.
  
  LEMON RUM SAUCE:  In saucepan, combine sugar, water and lemon
  juice;bring to boil. Boil for 1 minute; stir in rum. Brush over cake.
  
  LEMON CREAM:  In saucepan, sprinkle gelatin over cold water; let
  stand for 5 minutes to soften. Over low heat, warm gelatin gently
  just until dissolved. Meanwhile, in bowl, beat egg yolks with sugar
  until light;beat in lemon rind and juice. Beat in gelatin mixture.
  Return to saucepan and cook over low heat for 5-6 minutes or until
  barely thickened; let cool slightly.  In large bowl, beat cheese
  until light;beat in lemon mixture. Let cool to room temperature just
  until starting to thicken. Whip cream; fold into lemon mixture.
  Spread evenly over cake. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours or up to 2
  days. Cut into squares.
  
  GARNISH:  Whip cream; beat in sugar and rum.  Spoon into pastry bag
  and pipe decoratively onto each square. Garnish squares attractively
  with strawberries, kiwifruit, mango, coconut and pistachio. Makes 20
  servings.
  
  **  Toast coconut and pistachios on separate baking sheets in 350 F
  oven for 5 minutes or until golden.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  Golden Tube Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           MARIE FRANGIPANE   (KHMG99B)
  2 3/4 c  Cake flour, sifted
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
  1 1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Crisco shortening,
           -butter flavored
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 ts Orange extract
      1 ts Lemon extract
      3 lg Eggs
      1 lg Egg yolk
 
     Preheat oven to 375.  Combine cake flour, sugar, baking powder,
  and salt in large mixer bowl.  Add Crisco, about 1/2 cup milk, and
  extracts. Beat for 2 minutes at medium speed; scrape bowl
  occasionally. Add remaining milk, eggs, and egg yolk; conti
     Turn batter into a greased and floured 9" tube pan. Bake 375 for 45
  minutes until toothpick comes out clean. Cool cake for 30 minutes in
  pan on a rack, remove from pan and cool on rack. Frost as desired, or
  serve plain, or serve with fresh fruit or ice cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-lime Sheet Cake *
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 sm Lime jello
    3/4 c  Water; boiling
    1/2 c  Water; cold
      1 pk Lemon Supreme cake mix
      1 pk Dream whip; 2 to 2-1/2 cup
           - yield
      1 sm Instant lemon pudding
  1 1/2 c  Milk; coled
 
  Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Add cold water. Set aside at room
  temperature. Mix and bake cake as directed for a 9x13" cake. Cool cake
  20-25 minutes. Poke deep holes through top of cake. Pour gelatin
  mixture into holes. Refrigerate cake while preparing topping. In a
  chilled deep bowl, blend and whip the whipped topping, pudding and
  milk until stiff (3-8 minutes). Immediately frost cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Georgia Peaches & Cream Cake
 Categories: Fruit, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 lb Ripe peaches; peeled
    1/3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Quick-cooking tapioca
    1/4 ts Freshly grated nutmeg

MMMMM-----------------------CRUMB TOPPING----------------------------
    1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      6 tb Light brown sugar
      4 tb Unsalted butter; chilled
    1/4 ts Cinnamon

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      6 tb Sour cream
    1/4 ts Baking soda
      1 lg Egg
    1/3 c  Sugar
      4 tb Unsalted butter; softened
  1 1/2 ts Pure vanilla extract
    3/4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Preheat oven to 375~, 15 minutes before baking, with the rack in the
  center of the oven. Butter an 8" square baking pan, preferably glass.
  Cut the peaches into 1/2" slices. Put in a pan with sugar, lemon
  juice, tapioca and nutmeg and toss gently. Cook over high heat until
  syrup begins to bubble, about 4 minutes. Set aside.
    FOR THE TOPPING: Work the flour into the sugar, butter and cinnamon
  until the butter is the size of small peas. This can be done with a
  food processor or pastry blender. Set aside.
   FOR THE CAKE: Stir the sour cream and baking soda together and let
  stand while you begin the cake. Cream the egg, sugar and butter in
  the processor or with a mixer until it is light and fluffy. Add the
  vanilla and sour cream and mix well. Gently fold in the flour, baking
  powder and salt. In the processor, do this by pulsing the machine on
  and off several times. Spread the warm peaches and their juice in the
  bottom of the baking pan. Spoon the batter over the peaches and
  spread in a thin, even layer with a rubber spatula. It's OK if the
  peaches are not completely covered. Sprinkle the topping over the
  batter. Bake until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake,
  not the fruit, comes out clean, 25-28 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seven-Up Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Lemon Supreme Cake Mix
      1    Pineapple Instant Pudding
      4    Eggs
    2/3 c  Vegetable oil
     10 oz 7-Up

MMMMM---------------------------ICING--------------------------------
      1 cn Crushed Pineapple; small
    1/2 c  Margarine
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Flour
      1 cn Angel Flake Coconut
      2    Eggs
 
  Empty lemon supreme cake mix and instant pineapple pudding into a
  large mixing bowl. Add oil and eggs. Beat about 2 minutes. Add 7-Up
  and mix until well blended. Pour into a sheet cake pan that has been
  greased and floured. Bake 35-40 minutes or until done in a preheated
  350~ oven. While still hot spread with Icing. Cook margarine, sugar,
  pineapple, flour and eggs until thick. Add coconut and blend well.
  Spread over cake while both are still warm.
  
  ~----                                                       
  ===============   Reply   63 of Note    1 =================
  
  BOARD:      FOOD AND WINE BB    TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE   SUBJECT: R-MM
  ALL CAKES MEGA  
  
  TO:     VDRJ67A    PATTI ANDERSON         DATE:    06/19 FROM:
  VDRJ67A  PATTI ANDERSON         TIME:    11:39 PM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Lime Soda Cake *
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 pk Lemon cake mix
      1 pk Instant pudding - Coconut
           - OR- pineapple cream
     10 oz Lemon-lime soda
    3/4 c  Cooking oil
      4    Eggs

MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Flour
      2    Egg yolks
      1 c  Flaky coconut
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
     15 oz Crushed pineapple; NOT drain
 
  Combine cake mix, pudding mix, lemon-lime soda and oil; mix well. Add
  eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition. Pour into greased
  and floured 9x13" baking pan. Bake at 350~F for 45-50 minutes.
   FROSTING: In saucepan mix sugar, flour and pineapple until flour is
  moistened. Stir in egg yolks, coconut and butter. Cook until very
  thick. Spread over cake while both are hot.
  
  ~----                                                       
  ===============   Reply   69 of Note    1 =================
  
  BOARD:      FOOD AND WINE BB    TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE   SUBJECT: R-MM
  ALL CAKES MEGA  
  
  TO:     VDRJ67A    PATTI ANDERSON         DATE:    06/19 FROM:
  VDRJ67A  PATTI ANDERSON         TIME:    11:40 PM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Patty's Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Cornmeal;yellow or white
           Preferably stone ground,plus
           More for preparing pan
    1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Oil;plus more for preparing
           Pan
      2 tb Butter;softened
      2    Eggs;large plus
      2    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Yogurt;nonfat plain
  1 1/2 tb Lemon;zest grated
      1 tb Lemon juice,fresh
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      1 c  Berries;fresh or frozen,
           Strawberries,blueberries,or
           Raspberries
    1/4 c  Black currant liqueur,such
           As Creme de Cassis
 
  Line bottom of 10" round cake pan with parchment or wax paper.Lightly
  oil pan an dust with cornmeal,shaking out excess.. Sift together
  cornmeal,flour,baking powder and salt in medium bowl and set aside..
  Whisk togethersugar,oil and butter in large mixing bowl until well
  combined.Add eggs and egg whites,one at a time,stirring until just
  combined.Stir together yogurt,lemon zest,lemon juice,and lemon
  extract in small bowl.Fold in dry ingredients until just combined.Do
  not overmix.. Spoon batter into prepared pan and smooth top with
  rubber spatula.Bake at 350~F until cake is golden and wooden pick
  inserted into center comes out clean,about 40 minutes.Cool cake on
  rack 10 minutes.Invert cake onto platter,peel off paper and cool
  completely.( Cake can be made ahead to this point and
  refrigerated,wrapped in plastic,up to 3 days.) Toss berries with
  black currant liqueur.Cut cake into wedges and serve topped with
  berries.Makes 12 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Pie Squares
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------BASE---------------------------------
      1 pk Lemon Cake Mix
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter; soften
      3    Eggs; separated (save whites
      1 c  Coconut

MMMMM--------------------MERINGUE AND FILLING-------------------------
      3    Reserved egg whites
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 cn Lemon pie filling
 
  Heat the oven to 350~. In a large bowl, combine all base ingredients.
  Mix at low speed until crumbly. Press in an ungreased 13X9 inch pan.
  Bake at 350~ for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, to make the meringue beat egg
  whites in a small bowl on medium speed until soft peaks form.
  Gradually add sugar 1 tablespoon at a time, beating on high speed
  until stiff glossy peaks form and sugar is dissolved. Remove base
  from the oven and spread evenly with lemon pie filling; spread
  meringue over the pie filling. Return to the oven and bake an
  additional 15-25 minutes until the meringue is light golden brown.
  Cool completely; cut into squares. Garnish as desired. 12 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lazy Dazy Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Cake Flour; sifted
  2 1/2 ts Baking Powder
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Milk
      4 tb Butter; or shortening
    1/4 ts Lemon rind; grated
      2 ts Lemon juice
      4    Egg
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Light brown sugar; firm pack
      4 tb Cream
      4 tb Butter; melted
      8 oz Coconut; shredded
 
  Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt, and sift
  together three times. Heat milk , butter, and lemon rind over low
  flame until butter is melted (do not scald). Remove from fire and
  cool slightly. Add lemon juice to eggs and beat until thick and
  lemon-colored; add sugar gradually, and beat until light and fluffy.
  Add flour, alternately with warm milk mixture, mixing quickly but
  thoroughly. Bake in greased pan, 10x10", in moderate oven (350~) 35
  minutes, or until done. Combine brown sugar, cream, melted butter,
  and cocoonut and mix lightly until thoroughly blended. Spread this
  mixture evenly over top of cake. Return cake to oven and bake 11-15
  minutes longer, or until brown sugar mixture carmelizes. Cut in
  squares. Good warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Very Moist Lemon Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 15 servings
 
      1 pk Lemon cake mix
      3 oz Lemon jello
    3/4 c  Water; cold
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Oil
      1 ts Lemon extract

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      3    Lemons
      2 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Combine cake mix and jello, add cold water. Add eggs one at a time.
  Add oil and lemon extract. Pour in lightly greased 9x13" pan. Bake in
  a preheated 325~ oven. Bake for 30 minutes. While cake is baking, mix
  glaze ingredients. Pour over baked cake while hot from oven, after
  poking holes in cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Rum Cake #2
 Categories: Italian, Alcohol, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3    Egg yolks
      1 c  Sugar
  2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 c  Milk
    1/2    Lemon; Grated peel only
      1 c  Butter; room temperature
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Dark rum
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. Beat the yolks and 1/4 cup sugar together in a
  mixing bowl and slowly add 1/4 cup flour. Meanwhile, place the milk
  in a small pot and bring to the brink of boiling. Slowly pour the
  milk over the yolk mixture, then pour the whole thing back into the
  pot. Place over medium heat and cook, stirring constantly, until the
  mixture thickens. Remove from the heat and mix in the lemon peel.
  Scrape into a plastic container, cover and place in the refrigerator
  to chill. Running your mixer at high speed, cream butter and
  remaining sugar together in a mixer fitted with a paddle. Add the
  eggs 1 at a time, waiting until the previous 1 has been absorbed. Add
  the sour cream and mix until incorporated. Add vanilla, nutmeg,
  baking soda and salt. Decrease the speed to medium, add remaining
  flour and mix an additional minute. Scrape the batter into a 1-quart
  round or rectangular cake pan, leaving 1/2-inch space at the top.
  Place on the middle rack of the oven for 50-to-60 minutes. The cake
  is done when the surface cracks and a toothpick inserted into the
  center comes out clean. Remove cake from the oven and let cool for 15
  minutes before unmolding onto rack. When the cake is completely cool,
  slice it into 6 layers. Place the first layer on a cake platter and
  sprinkle with some of the rum. Cover the layer with some of the
  custard mixture. Place the second layer on top of the custard,
  sprinkle with rum and cover with more custard. Continue until the
  cake is assembled. Lightly spread the custard all over the surface of
  the cake. Refrigerate for 2 hours before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Fruit Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------FRUIT SAUCE-----------------------------
  1 1/2 c  Orange juice
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Grated orange peel
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/4 ts Salt (optional)

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      1 pk Angel food cake mix
      3    Medium peaches
      1 pt Strawberries
      1 c  Blueberries
 
  About 2 hours before serving or early in the day: Prepare fruit
  sauce: In 2 qt saucepan over medium heat, mix orange juice, sugar,
  cornstarch, orange peel, lemon peel and salt. Cook over medium heat,
  stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and boils; boil 1 minute.
  Cover saucepan and refrigerate about 1 hour or until mixture is
  chilled. Meanwhile, preheat oven to 375~. Line 15 1/2 x 10 1/2
  jelly-roll pan (I use my roasting pan) with waxed paper; grease
  paper. Prepare angel food cake mix as label directs, but spread
  batter evenly in prepared jelly-roll pan. Bake cake 20 minutes or
  until golden. Cover large wire rack with sheet of waxed paper. When
  cake is done, with small spatula, loosen it from sides of pan; invert
  onto waxed paper on rack. Lift off pan; peel off paper. Cool cake
  completely, then return to clean jelly-roll pan or large tray. Cover
  cake if not using right away. To serve: Spread top of cake with about
  half of chilled fruit sauce. Slice peaches and strawberries. Arrange
  peaches, strawberries, and blueberries on cake; brush fruit with
  remaining fruit sauce. This cake is absolutely delicious and looks
  very pretty with the different color fruit on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Josehind Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 30 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice fresh

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Coconut, shredded
      2 ts Lemon rind, grated
  1 1/4 c  Milk

MMMMM--------------------------FROSTING-------------------------------
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners' sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      4 tb Milk (to thin frosting)
 
  Bring sugar, water and lemon juice to a boil in a heavy saucepan, over
  medium - high heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Let syrup boil for 1
  minute. Set aside to cool after it becomes clear. CAKE: Preheat oven
  to 350~. Combine flour, baking powder and salt. Set aside. Cream
  butter and sugar until fluffy. Beat in eggs one at a time. Mix in
  coconut and lemon rind. Gently blend in flour mix, alternating with
  milk, beginning and ending with flour. DO NOT overmix. Pour into a
  buttered 15-1/2" x 10-1/2" x 1-1/2" baking pan. Bake in center of
  oven 25 minutes, or until cake shrinks away from sides of pan. Place
  on a rack. Pour cooled syrup over hot cake. Let cool.
   FROSTING: Cream together cream cheese and butter until smooth. Blend
  in sugar and vanilla. Beat until smooth. Thin frosting with milk
  until it falls in a heavy ribbon from a spoon. Drizzle in a heavy
  random pattern over cake, leaving some open spaces on surface of cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Roll
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Plus 2 Tablespoons sifted ca
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      6    Eggs; separated
      1 c  Superfine granulated sugar
  1 1/2 ts Lemon rind; grated
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1    Confectioners sugar

MMMMM--------------------SUPER LEMON FILLING-------------------------
    2/3 c  Sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
    2/3 c  Water
      2    Egg yolks; slightly beaten
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Lemon rind; grated
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Butter a 15x10x1 jelly roll pan, line with wax paper, butter paper.
  Sift flour, baking powder and salt onto wax paper. Beat the egg
  whites in a medium bowl with electric mixer on high speed until
  frothy. Add 1/2 cup of the sugar, 1 Tablespoon at a time, beating
  until the meringue forms stiff, glossy peaks. Beat the egg yolks in a
  small bowl with the electric mixer and the same beaters, without
  washing, until light. Add the remaining sugar 1 tablespoon at a time,
  beating until mixture is thick and creamy. Add lemon juice and rind.
  By hand, add the flour mixture gradually, beating until smooth. Fold
  egg mixture into meringue until no streaks of white remain. Spread
  batter evenly in prepared pan. Bake in a moderate oven 350~, for 15
  minutes or until cake springs back when lightly touched with
  fingertips. Cool in pan on wire rack 5 minutes. Invert pan on a clean
  cloth that has been generously sprinkled with confectioners sugar.
  Carefully peel off paper. Trim off any crispy edges then roll up with
  towel, starting at one of the short sides. Cool completely on wire
  rack. Unroll cooled cake; spread with Super Lemon Filling. Re-roll,
  then wrap firmly in wax paper, refrigerate until firm.
   To serve: Remove wax paper, place roll on serving platter and
  sprinkle with powdered sugar.
   For Filling: Combine sugar and cornstarch in a small saucepan. Stir
  in water. Cook, stirring constantly until mixture thickens and
  bubbles, 1 minute. Remove from heat. Beat half the hot cornstarch
  mixture into beaten egg yolks, then stir back into saucepan. Cook one
  minute longer. Stir in butter, lemon rind and juice. Place piece of
  plastic wrap directly on filling to prevent skin forming. Refrigerate
  until ready to use.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hollywood Cheesecake Part 1
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM------------------IRWIN E.SOLOMON JJGF65A-----------------------

MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE CRUST----------------------------
      1 c  Graham cracker crumbs
      3 tb Sugar
      3 tb Butter or margarine,melted

MMMMM----------------------FOR THE FILLING---------------------------
      2 pk Cream cheese;softened,8 oz.
           Each
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon  juice;fresh
      1 ts Lemon peel;freshly grated or
      2 ts Of peel,see note
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs;separated

MMMMM----------------------FOR THE TOPPING---------------------------
      1 c  Real sour cream
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla

MMMMM--------------------FOR THE DECORATIONS-------------------------
           Fresh strawberries,whole or
           Sliced
           Fresh raspberries,hulled and
           Served whole
           Sprigs of fresh mint
           Optional;Raspberry liqueur
           Or strawberry syrup
 
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond-Streusel Peach Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
      2 c  Flour
    3/4 ts Salt
     10 tb Butter; chilled
      2 tb Shortening; chilled
      1 c  Brown sugar
    3/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 c  Almonds; sliced
      1    Lemon
      9    Peaches; about 3 pounds
      3 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      2 tb Dry bread crumbs
 
    Combine 1 cup flour and 1/2 ts. salt. Cut in 4 tb. of butter and the
  shortening until mixture resembles coarse meal with a few pea-sized
  pieces remaining. Sprinkle in 3 to 4 tb ice water, a tablespoon at a
  time, until dough just comes together. Gather into a disk. Wrap and
  chill at least 30 minutes. Combine remaining cup of flour, 1/3 cup
  brown sugar, 1/4 ts. salt, and 1/4 ts. nutmeg. Cut in remaining 6 tb.
  of butter until crumbly. Stir in almonds. Chill. On a lightly floured
  work surface, roll out chilled pie pastry to fit a 9" pie pan. Fit
  pastry into pan. Trim and flute edges. Chill. Heat oven to 475. Grate
  1 ts. of lemon zest from the lemon and squeeze 1 tb. of juice. Peel
  peaches and slice. Combine with remaining 2/3 cup brown sugar,
  remaining 1/2 ts nutmeg, lemon zest and juice, cornstarch and almond
  extract. Sprinkle bread crumbs over bottom of pie shell and fill with
  peach mixture. Sprinkle almond crumb mixture on top. Bake 15 minutes.
  Reduce temperature to 350. Continue baking until top is browned and
  fruit juices are bubbling, 50 to 55 minutes. Cool completely before
  cutting.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peach and Raspberry Cobbler
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
      9    Peaches; about 3 lbs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 pt Raspberries
  1 1/2 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Salt
      5 tb Butter; chilled
    2/3 c  Milk
 
    Heat oven to 400. Peel peaches and slice. Combine them with 3/4 cup
  of sugar, the cornstarch and lemon juice. Gently stir in raspberries.
  Transfer to 2-qt. baking dish. Cover with foil. Bake until juices are
  bubbling, about 30 minutes. Meanwhile, combine 1/4 cup sugar, flour,
  baking powder and salt. Cut in butter until mixture resembles coarse
  meal. Stir milk into flour mixture until ingredients just hold
  together. Drop eight heaping spoonfuls of dough onto hot fruit and
  sprinkle remaining sugar on dough. Bake, uncovered, until the
  biscuits have browned, about 25 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FROZEN PEACH MOUSSE
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Fresh Peaches
      4    Eggs; separated
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      4 tb Peachtree Scnapps Liqueur
 
  1. Peel and slice aboout 1 to 1 1/2 lbs. (enough to make 1 cup) of the
  peaches. Place sliced peaches in food processor, food mill or blender
  to puree peaches. Refrigerate puree. 2. In top of a double boiler,
  beat egg yolks with 1/2 c of sugar until thick and lemony in color.
  Stir in the lemon juice and the peach liqueur. Cook over hot water,
  stirring constantly, until mixture has thickened, about 4 minutes.
  Cool to room temp. and fold in peach puree. Chill in refrigerator. 3.
  In mixing bowl, beat egg whites until foamy. Gradually add remaining
  1/4 c sugar, beating until meringue is stiff. Fold into peach
  mixture. Spoon peach mousse into 8 custard cups and freeze. 4. Before
  serving, peel and slice remaining peaches. To serve, unmold frozen
  mousse onto individual dessert plates and garnish with sliced
  peaches. Mousse tastes best if allowed to stand and soften 5 to 10
  minutes before serving. Source: Stanford Court Hotel Judy Garnett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 9 MINUTE FRESH FRUIT PIE
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Blueberries OR
      4 c  Halved strawberries OR
      4 c  Peaches,peeled and sliced
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Corn syrup
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Baked pie crust
 
  In covered blender, blend 1 cup of fruit at high spped 30 seconds. In
  2 quart saucepan, mix cornstarch and water until smooth. Add mashed
  fruit, corn syrup, and lemon juice. Stirring constantly, bring to
  boil over medium heat and boil one minute. Turn into bowl, cover
  surface with waxed paper. Cool one hour. Fold in remaining fruit.
  Spread cream onto bottom and sides of pie crust. Fill with fruit
  mixture. Chill 3 hours or until set. Serves 6-8 people.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SAVANNAH PEACH CHEESECAKE
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------JACK WENTZEL FDGG51B-------------------------

MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 c  Graham craker crumbs
      3 tb Margarine
      2 tb Sugar or 3 sugar substitute
           -packets

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      8 oz Light cream cheese
      3 tb Sugar or 4 sugar substitute
           -packets
    1/8 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 c  Skim milk
     16 oz Peach lowfat yogurt

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2    Fresh peaches, pitted,
           -peeled, & sliced
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  CRUST: Stir together crumbs, margarine and 2 T sugar in small bowl;
  press onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan. Chill. FILLING: Soften
  gelatin in water in small saucepan; stir over low heat until
  dissolved. Blend cream cheese product, 3 T sugar and ginger in large
  mixing bowl at medium speed until well blended (electric mixer).
  Gradually add gelatin and milk; mix well. Chill until mixture is
  thickened but not set. Fold in yogurt; pour over crust. Chill until
  firm. About 6 hours. Carefully remove rim of pan just before serving.
  Toss together peach slices and lemon juice, drain. Arrange peaches on
  top of cheesecake.
   Serves 8 - ha ha Only takes 1/2 hour to make.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PEACH POUND CAKE
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 tb Unbleached white flour
      2 tb Brown sugar
      2    Peaches; sliced
    3/4 c  Margarine
      1 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Unbleached white flour
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Vanilla
      8 oz Low-fat lemon yogurt
      1    Egg
      1    Egg white
 
  Preheat oven to 325 F. Grease a 12-cup bundt pan with margarine and
  dust with flour. In a medium bowl, mix 1 Tbs of flour and the brown
  sugar. Add peaches and mix until covered with sugar. Spread peaches
  around bottom of bundt pan. In a large mixing bowl, cream margarine
  and sugar. Stir in 2-1/2 cups flour, salt, baking soda and baking
  powder. Add vanilla, yogurt, egg and egg white then beat for 3
  minutes at medium speed. Pour batter over peaches and bake for about
  1 hour or until a cake tester comes out clean. Cool for about 10
  minutes before removing from pan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Refreshing Frozen Fruit Salad **
 Categories: Fruit, Salads, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 sm Strawberry Jello
      1 c  Water; boiling
      6 oz Pink lemonade concentrate
      8 oz Cool Whip; thawed
     16 oz Peach slices; drained
    3/4 c  Seedless green grapes
    1/4 c  Maraschino cherries
      2    Bananas; sliced 1" thick
 
  In large bowl, dissolve jello in boiling water; add lemonade
  concentrate and stir until melted. Chill until slightly thickened,
  about 45 minutes. Blend in whipped topping; fold in fruit. Pour into
  9x5 loaf pan. Freeze about 4 hours or until firm. To serve, unmold.
  Garnish with additional fruit if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tangy Fruit Gelatin
 Categories: Salads, Fruit, Desserts, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Water
      1 lg Peach flavor gelatin
      8 oz Plain yogurt
      3 oz Cream cheese; softened &
           - cut into cubes
      6 oz Frozen lemonade concentrate;
           - thawed
           Strawberries
           Rasperries
           Blueberries
           Grapes
           Peach slices
 
  In small saucepan, heat water to boiling. Dissolve gelatin in boiling
  water. Pour 2-1/4 cups hot gelatin mixture into blender container. Set
  remaining 1-1/4 cups gelatin mixture aside. Add yogurt, cream cheese
  and lemonade concentrate to gelatin mixture in blender; blend until
  smooth. Pour into 10" glass pie plate or quiche pan. Refrigerate
  until firm. Arrange fruit over top. Refrigerate reserved gelatin
  mixture until thick enough to coat a spoon. Carefully spoon thickened
  gelatin evenly over fruit to glaze.  Cover; refrigerate overnight or
  until set.
   TIP:  Hot gelatin mixture can be poured into 8 individual serving
  dishes or parfait glasses. Refrigerate until firm. Garnish each with
  fruit; spoon thickened gelatin over fruit to glaze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRUITS IN SYRUP  (TRY CAI)
 Categories: Desserts, Vietnamese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Sugar
      4 tb - water
      2 tb Dry sherry
      2 ts Lemon or lime juice
      1    Orange
      2 c  Fresh pineapple; cubed
  1 1/2 c  Fresh or canned lichees
 
  Cook the sugar and water into a syrup.  Cool and stir in sherry and
  lemon/lime juice.  Peel and segment the orange; Toss with the
  pineapple and lichees.  Pour the syrup over the fruits. Chill 1 hour.
  From AOL, June 1993.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Alaskan Sourdough Fruitcake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Golden, seedless, and puffed
           -seeded raisins, combined
      4 c  White flour
      1 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 c  Dried currants
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Plus 2 tb Blackberry Cordial
           -or other wine
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Cloves
      1 ts Allspice
      1 c  Alaskan Sourdough Starter
    1/2 ts Mace
      6 tb Butter
      3 c  Candied fruit; green and red
           -cherries, pineapple,
           -orange, citron and ging
      1 c  White sugar
      1 c  Brown sugar
      3    Eggs, well beaten
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      2 tb Grated lemon rind
 
  Soak raisins and currants in 1 cup wine overnight.  Remove starter
  from refrigerator and set, tightly covered, in warm place overnight.
  It should be in at least a two cup container as it will just about
  double its volume overnight.  In the morning, cream butter with sugar
  and beat in eggs and lemon rind.  Drain wine from raisins into
  creamed mixture. Stir in starter and 3 cups of the flour sifted with
  the soda, salt and spices. Sprinkle the remaining 1 cup of flour over
  the fruit and nuts in a large bowl. Toss and shake until well-coated.
  Add to batter and mix thoroughly. Turn into loaf pans which have been
  generously buttered. Let stand in warm place for 30 minutes.  Bake in
  oven preheated to 300 with a pan of water on floor of oven and rack
  as near as possible in middle of oven. Bake about 2-1/2 hours for
  medium-sized loaves watching carefully to see that they do not brown
  to quickly. Test with toothpick. Remove from oven, turn pans on sides
  and allow to set for a few minutes before taking from pans. When cold
  drip 2 tbsp. of wine over each cake. As soon as it is absorbed, wrap
  tightly in cellophane freezer paper and store in refrigerator or
  freezer. They improve with age.
  
  From: Breads and Coffee Cakes with Homemade Starters Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Sauce Fruit Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/3 c  Thick well-drained apple
           -sauce
      1 c  Shortening
      4    Eggs, well beaten
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
      4 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Nuts, broken
      3 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Mace
      1 ts Allspice
      1 ts Cloves
      2 ts Nutmeg
    2/3 c  Molasses
      2 c  Brown sugar
      6 tb Lemon juice
      4 c  White flour
  1 3/4 ts Salt
      2 lb Seeded raisins
    1/4 lb Citron, thinly sliced
 
  Cream sugar and shortening.  Add apple sauce, which has been sieved to
  remove all lumps, molasses, eggs, and lemon juice. Sift white flour,
  measure, and sift with baking soda, salt, and spices. Dredge raisins
  in whole wheat flour.  Add white flour mixture to batter gradually.
  Beat thoroughly.  Add dredged raisins. Put a layer of the batter into
  a paper-lined baking pan. Add a layer of citron and nuts, cover with
  a layer of the batter. Repeat, having the top layer of the batter.
  Bake in a slow oven (300 to 325 F) about 2 hours. Mrs. S.F. Caruso,
  Laurel, MT.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Applesauce-Raisin Squares
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 25 servings
 
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Low-fat plain yogurt or
           1/2 tb lemon juice in milk
    3/4 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  Applesauce
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Grated lemon rind (or orange
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Whole-wheat flour
    1/2 c  Natural bran
      1 ts Baking powder
      2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Ginger
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/3 c  Sliced almonds, optional
 
  In large mixing bowl, beat egg; add oil, yogurt, brown sugar,
  applesauce, vanilla and lemon/orange rind; mix well.
  
  In another bowl, stir together raisins, flour, bran, baking powder,
  cinnamon, ginger and nutmeg; add to wet ingredients and mix only until
  combined.
  
  Turn into lightly greased (or wax-paper lined) 8" square cake pan.
  Lightly press almonds into top of batter.  Bake in 350 F oven for 45
  min or until tester inserted in center comes out clean.  (Squares
  will be moist.) Let cool, then cut into squares.  Makes 25 small
  squares 1 1/2 inch.
  
  Per square: 88 cal, 3 g fat, 11 mg cholesterol, 10 mg sodium, 2 g
  protein, 14 g carbohydrate 1 1/2 fruit choice, 1/2 fat
  
  Source:   The Lighthearted Cookbook by Anne Lindsay 1988 Heart and
  Stroke Foundation of Ontario Shared and tested by Elizabeth Rodier
  Aug 93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Cream Filling (The Art of Fine Baking, 1961)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Sherry
      2 tb Flour
    2/3 c  Apricot jam, strained
    1/2 ts Lemon rind, grated
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Orange juice
      3    Egg yolks
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Add sherry to flour.  Mix until smooth.  Add apricot jam, lemon rind
  and juice, and orange juice.  Stir until smooth.  Place in a heavy
  saucepan. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly until thick.
  
  Stir a few tablespoons of hot sauce into egg yolks.  Then pour egg
  yolks into remaining hot mixture, continuing to stir.  Cook and stir
  a few more minutes, being careful not to boil, until cream is smooth
  and thick.
  
  From "The Art of Fine Baking" by Paula Peck, copyright 1961
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Shortcake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2    To 1 ripe banana
      1 ts To 2 ts lemon juice OR a
           -pinch of unbuffered,
           -corn-free vitamin C
           Crystals, to taste, optional
      2 sl Buckwheat Banana Bread (see
           -recipe)
 
  Servings: 1
  
  This Banana Shortcake makes a satisfying, whole breakfast - it's not a
  dessert shortcake.  Because the Banana Bread is made in advance - and
  probably frozen - the shortcake is quick and easy to put together.  I
  (Marjorie Hurt Jones) sometimes serve it for "normal eating" house
  guests who devour every last crumb!
  
  Directions:
  
  Mash banana with a fork; whip until light and frothy.  If you enjoy a
  little tang, add the lemon juice or the pinch of the vit C.  Toast the
  bread lightly either in a toasster oven or in a dry frypan - homemade
  quickbreads don't do well in a traditional pop-up toasster.
  
  To assemble: Lay toasted bread on a plate; top with a dollop of
  masshed banana.
  
  Note:  If your Banana Bread is frozen be sure to take it out the
  evening before you want it for breakfast.  Use a serrated bread knife
  for slicing.
  
  From "The Yeast Connection Cookbook" by William G Crook, MD &
  Marjorie Hurt Jones, RN
  
  Courtesy of Theresa Merkling
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Funny Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Blueberries; rinsed and dra
           -ned, fresh
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Butter, room temperature
      1    Egg
  1 1/4 c  Flour; sifted
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
      1    9" pie crust; unbaked
 
  Combine blueberries, 1/2 cup of the sugar and all the lemon juice in a
  saucepan. Stirring gently, heat mixture until it is simmering and
  sugar is dissolved. Let cool to lukewarm while preparing cake batter.
  Cream butter, add 1/4 cup sugar and cream thoroughly. Add egg and mix
  well. Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Alternately, add with
  milk to egg mixture. Add vanilla. Gently, fold blueberry sauce into
  batter. Pour batter into unbaked pie shell. Bake in a preheated 375
  degree oven for 30 to 35 minutesor until cakes tests done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butter Sponge for French Pastry
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Egg
      3    Egg yolks
  3 1/2 tb Melted butter
      6 tb Flour
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
  2 1/4 tb Cornstarch
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Combine eggs and sugar.  Heat over hot water, beating constantly
  until warm (95 F).  Remove from fire and beat until cool and stiff.
  Add flour which has been sifted, measured, and sifted with
  cornstarch, salt, and baking powder.  Mix as lightly as possible. Add
  lemon juice and rind. Add butter slowly, stirring constantly. Pour
  into well-oiled pan. Bake in moderate oven (375 F) about 20 minutes.
  When cool cut into various shapes. Ice with different colored icing.
  Decorate with fancy designs of contrasting colors. The Household
  Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caraway Cakes
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or butter substitute
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Caraway seed
      1 ts Baking powder
 
  Cream sugar and butter or butter substitute.  Add egg yolks. Beat
  thoroughly.  Add lemon juice, flavoring, and grated lemon rind. Sift
  flour, measure, and sift with salt and baking powder. Add alternately
  with milk to first mixture.  Add caraway seed. Mix thoroughly. Fold
  in stiffly beaten egg whites.  Fill well-oiled muffin tins 2/3 full.
  Bake in moderate oven (375 F) about 30 minutes. The Household
  Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Filling (The Art of Fine Baking)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Yellow raisins
      1 tb Cognac
      1 c  Cream cheese (or cottage)
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Flour
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Melted butter
      1 tb Sour cream
    1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Mix raisins with cognac.  Cream together cheese, sugar, and flour.
  Stir in egg yolk, then melted butter, sour cream, lemon rind, and
  vanilla. Add cognac-soaked raisins.
  
  From "The Art of Fine Baking" by Paula Peck, copyright 1961
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Delight Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Lemon cake mix, super moist
           -r pudding cake
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      9 oz Cool whip whipped topping
      1    Pkg vanilla pudding mix; sm
           -ll
           Milk
      1 c  Cherry pie filling
 
  Mix and bake cake according to package directions in 9" cake pans.
  Cool completely. Mix confectioners sugar, softened cream cheese and 3
  tbsp. of Cool Whip whipped topping. Blend well. Spread 1/2 the
  mixture on bottom layer. Spread 1/2 can cherry pie filling over it.
  Place on top layer of cake. Secure with toothpicks, if necessary.
  Spread remaining cherry filling over all. But don't add cherries yet.
  Blend the pudding mix with the remaining Cool Whip topping. Add a
  small amount of milk if it seems too stiff. Frost sides of cake and
  build a rim at the top of the cake to hold the remaining cherry pie
  filling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cocoanut Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter
      4 ea Egg whites
  1 1/2 c  Sugar; white
      1 c  Cocoanut
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Lemon flavoring
 
  Cream butter and sugar. Add cocoanut, flour, sifted with baking
  powder and salt, alternately with water. Fold in whites last. Note:
  Bake in moderate 350 F. oven. Source: Mrs. William Hamilton, Darrow
  Street Grange, Summit County,
       OH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Colombian Fresh Banana Cake with Sea Foam Frosting Coca-C
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pkg (18.5 oz) yellow
           Cake mix **
    1/8 ts Baking soda
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  COCA-COLA
      1 c  Bananas, ripe and mashed
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Nuts, finely chopped (opt)

MMMMM---------------------SEA FOAM FROSTING--------------------------
      2    Egg whites
  1 1/2 c  (firmly packed) light
           Brown sugar
    1/8 ts Cream of tartar *
    1/3 c  COCA-COLA
      1 ts Vanilla extract
           Dash salt
 
  *  Do not use a mix with pudding added or which requires oil.
  
  *  you may substitute 1 tablespoon corn syrup.
  
  TO MAKE THE CAKE:  In a large mixing bowl, combine the cake mix,
  baking soda, and eggs.  Measure the Coca-Cola, stir briskly until the
  foaming stops; add to the batter.  Blend ingredients just until
  moistened, then beat at high speed of an electric mixer for 3
  minutes, scraping the bowl often.
  
  In a bowl, combine the mashed bananas with the lemon juice; add to the
  batter.  Add the chopped nuts to the batter and beat for 1 minute at
  medium speed.  Turn the batter into a well-greased, lightly floured,
  13x9x2-inch pan.
  
  Bake in a preheated, 350 degree F oven for about 40 minutes or until
  the cake tests done.  Cool on a rack for 15 minutes, remove cake from
  pan and turn right-side up on a rack to finish cooling.
  
  TO MAKE THE SEA FOAM FROSTING:  In the top of a double boiler,
  combine all the ingredients except the vanilla extract.  Beat 1
  minute at high speed of an electric mixer.  Place over boiling water
  (the water should not touch the bottom of the top half of the double
  boiler.). Beat on high speed about 7 minutes until the frosting forms
  peaks when the mixer is raised.
  
  Remove from boiling water (for the smoothest frosting, empty into a
  large bowl).  Add the vanilla extract and continue beating on high
  speed until thick enough to spread, about 2 minutes.  Spread on the
  sides and top of the cold banana cake.
  
  Recipe:  "International Cooking with Coca-Cola", a give-away
         pamphlet from The Coca-Cola Company, 1981
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Sweet cream
      4    Eggs, well beaten
    1/8 ts Salt
  1 1/4 c  Cake flour
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Lemon flavoring
 
  Sift flour, measure, and sift with baking powder and salt. Combine
  sugar, eggs, and cream.  Stir until well blended.  Add flavoring. Add
  sifted dry ingredients.  Beat 5 minutes.  Pour into well-oiled,
  shallow pan. Bake in moderate oven (375 F) about 30 minutes. Mrs.
  Louis Linke, Paragould, AR.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crostata Di Frutta Di Stagione (Shortcake with Fresh Frui
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      7 oz Flour
  2 1/2 oz Sugar
      1 pn Salt
  3 1/2 oz Butter
      2    Egg yolks
    1/4 ts Lemon rind, grated
           FILLING
           Strawberries, and so forth
           CREMA PASTICCERA (PASTRY
           -CREAM)
      3    Egg yolks
    1/3 c  Sugar
      2 oz Flour
           Vanilla, pinch or drop
  1 1/2 c  Milk
 
  SHORTCAKE
  
  SIFT TOGETHER THE FLOUR, sugar and salt on a wooden pastry board.
  Make a well in the center and add butter, eggs and lemon rind. Mix
  and knead with the fingertips taking care not to handle too much.
  When smooth, shape into a ball and chill for about 30 minutes. Roll
  out lightly in a circle, cut edges and keep dough about 1 inch larger
  than a 8- to 9-inch (diameter) fluted flan tin. Butter and flour the
  pan and fit the pastry into it, again trim the edges, prick with fork
  and flute edges. Place in preheated oven at moderate heat for 15 to
  20 minutes.
  
  CREMA PASTICCERA Beat together yolks and sugar until slightly
  thickened and a light lemon color. Beat in flour and vanilla. Over
  medium heat, bring milk just to the boil. Let it cool for a moment,
  then add it to the egg mixture, whisking rapidly. Cook over low heat
  until the pastry cream thickens enough to coat the back of a wooden
  spoon. Cool. When crema pasticcera is cool, spread evenly on the
  bottom of the pie. Fill with whatever fresh fruits are available and
  glaze with an apricot jam. Melt apricot jam glaze with a little hot
  water. This recipe will serve 6 people.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crumb-Topped Blueberry Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Sugar
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine, melted
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 c  Fresh blueberries *
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      4 tb Soft butter or margarine
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  * if using frozen berries, thaw
  
  CRUMB TOPPING:  In small bowl combine 2/3 cup sugar, 1/2 flour, 1/2 t.
  cinnamon, 4 T. soft butter or margarine, and 1 cup chopped walnuts.
  Stir until mixture is evenly blended and crumbly in appearance.
  
  Into large mixing bowl measure the flour, sugar, baking powder,
  baking soda and salt.  Stir well to blend.  Into large measuring cup,
  combine eggs, milk, butter and lemon juice.  Stir luquid ingredients
  into dry ingredients until blended.  Turn into buttered 13-by-9-inch
  baking dish. Sprinkle blueberries evenly over the batter.  Sprinkle
  with the Crumb Topping. Bake at 375 degrees for 40 to 45 minutes.
  Serve warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Currant Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Butter or butter substitute
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Milk
  3 1/2 c  Cake flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Cream of tartar
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Currants
 
  Cream butter and sugar.  Add well-beaten egg yolks and milk.  Mix
  thoroughly.  Sift flour, measure, and sift with baking soda, salt, and
  cream of tartar.  Add lemon juice, lemon rind, and currants which
  have been dredged in 2 tablespoons of the flour. Fold in stiffly
  beaten egg whites. Pour into well-oiled cake pans. Bake in moderate
  oven (375 F) about 40 minutes. Florence Taft Eaton, Concord, MA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cute Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Of butter
      1 c  Sugar
      6    Drops lemon juice
           Nuts
      4 lg Eggs
      1 ts Baking powder
      4 c  Mixed dried fruit
      1 ts Baking soda
      1    Or 2 bottles of whiskey
 
  Sample the whisky to check quality.  Select a large mixing bowl.
  Check the whisky again as it must be just right.  To ensure the
  whisky is of top quality, pour 1 large glass and drink fast. Repeat.
  With an electric mixer, beat 1 cup of butter in a large fluffy bowl.
  
  Add 1 tsp thugar and beat again.  Meanwhile, check the whisky is
  still top quality by crying another tup.  Repeat.  Add 2 arge leggs,
  2 cups fried druit and beat till high.
  
  Sample whisky again, checking for tonscistististicity.  Next sift 3
  cups of salt -- or anything, it doesn't really matter.  Wample the
  shisky. Sift half pint of lemon juice.  Fold in the chopped butter
  and stained nuts. Add 1 babble-spoon of brown sugar, or whatever
  colour you can find and wix mell.
  
  Whink remaining drisky.  Grease oven and turn cake into pan to 200
  degrees. Pour eveything into the coven and bo to ged.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dundee Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    110 g  Sultanas, cleaned
    110 g  Currants, cleaned
    110 g  Raisins, cleaned and stoned
     50 g  Mixed peel, chopped
     75 g  Glace cherries, chopped
     50 g  Ground almonds
    225 g  Butter
      1 ts Baking powder
    225 g  Caster sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 tb Sherry
      3 tb Almonds, blanched and
           -halved
    250 g  Plain flour
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
 
  (For a 18cm-cake tin)
  
  Grease and line the base and sides of the tin and grease the paper
  lining.
  
  Mix the sultanas, currants, raisins, peel, cherries and ground almonds
  together.
  
  Beat the butter until it is soft and creamy then add the caster sugar
  and beat the mixture with the lemon rind until light and fluffy in
  both colour and texture. Beat the eggs together then add them
  gradually to the creamed mixture, beating well between each addition.
  Sift together the flour and baking powder and lightly stir it into
  the creamed mixture with the sherry and all the dried fruit.
  
  Turn the mixture into the tin, spread it to the sides and slightly
  hollow out the centre, then cover the surface with the almonds.
  
  Bake the cake at 160 oC (325 oF) for 2.5 - 3 hours or until a warm
  skewer pushed into the mixture comes out clean.
  
  Cool the cake in the tin for 15 minutes then turn it out onto a wire
  tray to cool completely.
  
  (casted sugar = granulated sugar, Glace cherries = candied cherries,
  Sultanas = seedless white raisins)
  
  (From: A feast of Scotland, Janet Warren)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fermented Fruit Freindship Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    (2-layer size) package
           -yellow cake mix (without
           -pudding)
      1    (4-serving size) box
           -vanilla, lemon or pistachio
           -instant pudding
      4    Eggs
    2/3 c  Oil
      2 ts Orange extract
  1 1/2 c  Fruit from Fermented Fruit
           -Starter
      1 c  Chopped nuts
      1 c  Golden raisins
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Combine cake and pudding mixes, eggs,
  oil and orange extract in a large bowl. Add fruit, nuts and raisins,
  and mix throughly. Pour into a greased, floured tube pan and bake 1
  hour. Let cool 15 minutes before removing from the pan. makes 12 to
  16 servings.
  
  Source: Houston Chronicle
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fig Ginger Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Corn sirup
    1/2 c  Sour milk
      3 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Cloves
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Lemon flavoring
  1 1/2 c  Cooked dried figs
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
 
  Boil figs 10 minutes, drain, and slice fine.  Cream sugar and
  shortening, add beaten eggs and sirup.  Sift flour, measure, and sift
  with baking powder, baking soda, salt, and spices.  Add alternately
  with milk to first mixture.  Add flavoring, figs, and nuts. Beat
  thoroughly. Pour into well-oiled layer cake pans. Bake in moderate
  oven (375 F) about 20 minutes. Ice with ginger icing. If desired 1
  1/2 cups soy or lima bean flour may be substituted for 1 1/2 cups
  white flour. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Apple Cake with Apricot Glaze
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 tb Margarine
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      2 c  White flour
  2 1/2 pt Baking powder
      1 c  Skim milk mixed with 1 ts
      6    Granny Smith apples
      1    TOPPING
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Freshly ground nutmeg
      3 tb Margarine, no salt
      1    GLAZE
    1/2 c  Apricot jam
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1    About 1 tsp water
 
  Method: Preheat oven to 350# F. Spray a 9" x 12" baking dish with a
  nonstick spray Cream margarine with sugar. Beat in egg. Sift together
  dry ingredients. into egg mixture alternating with milk and vanilla.
  In food processor, pro egg with sugar until well mixed. Add margarine
  and process and then milk. dry ingredients into processor and pulse 3
  or 4 times, just until mixed.  ( wash processor - reserve for next
  step.) Spread batter evenly into prepare dish.
  
  Top with fruit.  Mix topping ingredients together in food processor
  or mixe Dot over top of cake.  Bake 30 - 40 minutes or until skewer
  comes out clean Cool completely.
  
  For glaze, heat together apricot jam, lemon juice and water.  Strain
  into s saucepan or glass measuring jug.  Heat on top of stove or in
  microwave unti boiling and slightly reduced.  If reduced too much,
  add a bit more water. onto completely cooled cake with pastry brush.
  Serve and enjoy.
  
  Nutritional value per servings:  253 calories, 3.8 g protein (6%), 54
  g carbohydrate (83%), 3 g total fat (11%) (.7 g saturated fat), 23 mg
  cholest 146 mg sodium.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Sponge
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Gelatin
    1/3 c  Cold water
      2 c  Sour milk
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Crushed fruit
      1    Egg white
    1/8 ts Salt
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Dissolve over boiling water. Combine
  gelatin, sour milk, sugar, lemon juice, and salt.  Mix thoroughly.
  Cool until partially set.  Beat until light and fluffy. Add flavoring
  and fruit. Fold in stiffly beaten egg white. Beat until gelatin holds
  its shape. Chill.  Pile lightly in serving dish. Serve with whipped
  cream, or soft custard. 8 servings.
  
  Mrs. Martin Sorenson, Tabor, S.D.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Apple Tart
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
        pn Salt
    1/2 c  Butter
      3 tb Sugar
      1    Egg yolk
      2 ts Cold water
      4    Granny Smith apples
    1/2    Finely grated lemon peel
    1/2 ts Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      2 pn Ground nutmeg
      5 tb Apricot jam
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Whipped cream
           Fresh mint sprigs (opt)
 
  Preheat oven to 375'F. (190'C.). Butter an 8"-round baking pan. To
  make pastry, sift flour and salt into a bowl. Add butter and cut in
  finely until mixture resembles bread crumbs. Stir in 1 tablespoon of
  sugar, egg yolk and cold water.
  
  Knead gently until smooth and chill 15 minutes. Sprinkle with
  remaining sugar. Peel, core and cut apples in fairly thin slices.
  Arrange a layer of apple slices in overlapping circles in bottom of
  pan.
  
  Mix remaining apple slices with lemon peel, cornstarch and spices.
  Spoon on top of arranged apple slices. Roll out pastry to an 8"
  circle. Place on top of apples and press gently. Prick several times
  with a fork. Bake in preheated oven 40 minutes or until pastry is
  golden brown. Carefully turn out tart onto a warm serving plate.
  Combine jam and lemon juice in a saucepan and heat gently until
  melted, stirring until smooth. Spoon hot jam mixture over tart. Serve
  hot or cold with whipped cream. Garnish with mint sprig, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Apple Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Mc Intosh apples; about
           -1 1/2 lb., cored and cut
           -into quarters
    1/4 c  -Water
      1    Lemon peel; fresh, 2" strip
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter; softened
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Large egg
  2 1/4 c  All purpose flour
      2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg; fresh grated
    1/4 ts Cloves; ground
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Pecans; finely chopped,
           -toasted
      2    Granny Smith apples
    1/4 c  Apricot jam; strained

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           -Whipped cream; optional
 
  In a large saucepan combine the McIntosh apples with the water and
  lemon peel, bring the water to a boil and simmer the apples, covered,
  for 20 minutes, or until tender. Cook the mixture, uncovered, over
  moderately high heat, stirring, until the water is almost evaporated.
  Force the mixture through a food mill into a bowl, and allow the
  puree to cool. (I zap it in my food processor, until it is a puree).
  
   Generously butter a 9" springform pan and preheat the oven to 350
  deg. F. In a large bowl cream the butter, beat in the sugar and beat
  the mixture until light and fluffy. Beat in the egg and the apple
  puree. Into a bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon,
  nutmeg, cloves and salt. Stir the flour mixture and the pecans gently
  into the apple mixture and pour the batter into the springform pan.
  Peel and core the Granny Smith apples, halve them lengthwise and cut
  them crosswise into thin slices. *Arrange the apple slices
  decoratively in bunches on the batter, pressing them lightly into the
  batter.
   Bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 1 1/4 hours, or until a
  cake tester inserted in the center comes out clean. Remove the cake
  to a rack.
  
  In a small saucepan melt the jam over low heat, brush it over the
  cake and let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 20 minutes. Run a
  sharp knife around the edge of the pan to loosen the cake and remove
  the sides of the pan.  Serve the cake warm or at room temperature
  with the whipped cream, if desired.  Note: If you prefer, substitute
  3 large firm pears to make the fruit puree.  Use 2 firm but ripe
  unpeeled pears, halved lengthwise, cored and cut into thin slices for
  the top of the cake.
  
  Note:* You should be able to make about 14 groups bunches of the
  sliced Granny Smith Apples, and arrange them in 12 groups around the
  cake, with two groups in the center, sort of like a flower. Press the
  slices in, keeping the round side of the slices up, and pressing them
  straight into the batter. This is a lovely looking cake. I have only
  made it once...it was quite simple, yet very elegant looking and
  different.
  
  Source: Gourmet's Best Desserts
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hurry Up Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Cake flour; sifted
      1 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
  3 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Salt
      3    Egg whites; unbeaten
    1/2 c  Crisco shortening
 
  Sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt into mixing bowl of electric
  mixer. Add shortening. Add 2/3 cup of the milk and the flavoring. Beat
  until perfectly smooth (about 100 strokes by hand or 2 minutes on
  medium speed with electric mixer). Add unbeaten egg whites and
  remaining milk. Beat until well blended or for same period of time or
  strokes as given above. Pour into 2 greased and floured 8" round cake
  pans. Bake 25 to 30 minutes @ 350degrees.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Butter Frosting
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Lemon rind (grated)
      6 tb Butter
      3 c  Confectioners' sugar; sifted
    1/4 c  Lemon juice (approximately)
      1 ds Salt
 
  Add lemon rind to butter; cream well Add part of the sugar gradually,
  blending after each addition. Add remaining sugar, alternately with
  lemon juice, until right consistency to spread. Beat thoroughly after
  each addition. Add salt. Makes enough frosting to cover tops and
  sides of two 9-inch layers or tops and sides two 8x8x2-inch layers.
  
  From the Kate Smith Collection, 1940. General Foods Corp. (Courtesy
  of Barb Day)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Filling (For Blitz Torte, Etc.)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Water
      2    Egg Yolks, Beaten
      2 ts Lemon Rind, Grated
      1 ts Butter
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice
 
  Blend flour, sugar and salt in a saucepan; add water, stir until
  smooth. Place over moderate heat, stir constantly until thick and
  clear. (7-8 min.) Beat egg yolks, add a little hot mixture, beat
  thoroughly, return to saucepan, stir vigorously; and cook another 2
  min. Remove from heat. Blend in rind and butter, then lemon juice.
  Cool. From Meta Givens Modern Encyclopedia of Cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Jello Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Lemon jello
      4 x  Eggs
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
    3/4 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Oil
 
     Dissolve jello in boiling water. Cool, then add oil. Add cake mix,
  beat well. Add one egg at a time, beat well after each. Bake 40
  minutes at 350 degrees in angel food or tube pan. Grease and flour
  pan before pouring in batter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Poppy Seed Tart
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    2/3 c  Nonfat milk
      2 tb Poppy seeds
      1    Jar (4-ounce) baby food pear
           -puree
      1    Egg white, lightly beaten
    3/4 ts Vanilla
           Grated zest of 2 lemons
  1 1/3 c  Cake flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 pt Raspberries
      2    Kiwi fruits, peeled and cut
           -into thin wedges
     10 sm Papaya balls
           Lemon zest rose, optional
           Lemon leaves, optional
 
  This cake is remarkable; no one would ever believe that it is so low
  in fat and calories. Depending on the sweetness of the fruit you use
  to garnish the cake, you may wish to increase or decrease the sugar
  in the lemon syrup. (By Times Food Stylists)
  
  Combine nonfat milk and poppy seeds in a bowl. Let stand about 15
  minutes. Stir in pear puree, egg white, vanilla and lemon zest. Sift
  together cake flour, 3/4 cup sugar and baking powder in another bowl.
  Stir nonfat milk mixture just until blended. Pour into 9-inch
  indented, fluted shortcake pan sprayed with non-stick vegetable
  spray. Bake at 375 degrees F. about 20 minutes or until cake tests
  done in the center. Let cool in pan 5 minutes. Loosen edges and turn
  out onto wire rack with wax paper underneath. Combine remaining 1/4
  cup sugar and lemon juice in small sauce pan. Heat to boiling. Simmer
  about 1 minute or until syrup is clear. Brush syrup over top and
  sides of cake while cake is still warm. Place cake on serving
  platter. Arrange raspberries, kiwi wedges and papaya balls in
  attractive arrangement on top of cake. Garnish center with lemon rose
  and severl lemon leaves, if available. Makes 8 servings. Each serving
  contains about:
  
  214 calories; 72 mg sodium; 0 cholesterol; 1 gram fat; 49 grams
  carbohydrates; 3 grams protein; 1.2 grams fiber.
  
  Recipe from: Los Angeles Times Newspaper, Thursday April 30, 1992. By
  Minnie Bernardino and Donna Deane, Times Food Stylists.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Rumcake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
 18 1/2 oz Yellow cake mix
  3 1/4 oz Instant lemon pudding mix
    1/2 c  Rum
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Oil
      4    Eggs

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
           Zest from one lemon
    1/4 c  Rum
 
  Directions: Preheat oven to 325 degrees. Grease and flour a Bundt pan
  (or a 11" diameter decorative jello ring mold). Put chopped nuts in
  the bottom of the pan. Put cake and pudding mixes in a large mixing
  bowl and add the rum, water oil and eggs. Mix for 2 minutes. Bake at
  325 for 50-60 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean.
  
  When the cake is almost done, prepare the glaze by boiling and
  stirring the sugar, butter, lemon juice and lemon rind for 2-3
  minutes. Remove from heat, let cool slightly, and then stir in the
  rum.
  
  Remove cake from oven and spoon hot glaze over the bottom, but mostly
  between the cake and the sides (and center) of the pan. Let soak in
  and carefully turn cake out of pan when cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Coconut Angel Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Lemon
      1    Box (14.5-oz) angel food
           -cake mix
      1 c  Sweetened flaked coconut
    3/4 c  Confectioners' sugar
      2 tb Skim milk
 
  From lemon, using vegetable peeler, remove 2 inch piece of peel; cut
  into thin strips and set aside for garnish. Grate 2 teaspoon peel and
  squeeze juice from lemon into separate dished; set both aside.
  Prepare cake mix according to package directions. Gently fold
  coconut, 1 teaspoon lemon peel and half of juice into batter. Pour
  into 10 inch tube pan, bake according to package directions. Let cake
  cool completely, about 1 1/2 hours. In small bowl, stir together
  confectioners' sugar, remaining 1 teaspoon lemon peel, remaining
  lemon juice and milk. To serve, invert cake onto serving place.
  
  Drizzle icing over cake; garnish with lemon peel strips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Yogurt Coffee Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 lb (plus 1 Tbl) softened butter
      2 c  (plus 1 Tbl) all-purpose
           -butter
      4    Eggs
      2 sm Lemons
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Plain yogurt (8 oz)
      2 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
           LEMON-YOGURT GLAZE:
      1 c  Confectioners' sugar
      1 sm Lemon
    1/4 c  Plain yogurt (2 oz)
 
  CAKE:
  
  PREPARATION:  For The Cake, coat a 3-quart bundt or tube pan with 1
  tablespoon of the butter and dust pan with 1 tablespoon of the flour.
  Separate the eggs and set aside.  Grate 2 teaspoons lemon zest and
  squeeze 1/3 cup lemon juice.  Beat remaining butter and the sugar in
  a bowl until the mixture is light and fluffy.  Beat in egg yolks, one
  at a time. Beat in lemon zest, lemon juice and yogurt.  Sift
  remaining flour with baking powder, bakinG soda and salt.  Turn mixer
  to low and beat in dry ingredients until just incorporated.  Turn
  mixer to medium, beat for 2 minutes.  With clean beaters, whip whites
  to firm peaks and fold into batter.  Pour batter into prepared pan.
  
  COOKING:  Adjust oven rack to middle position and preheat oven to
  350F. Bake until a cake tester inserted in the center of the cake
  comes out clean, about 50 minutes.  Cool cake in the pan for 10
  minutes, then invert onto a wire rack to cool completely.  (Can wrap
  and store at room temperature overnight, or freeze for up to 1 month.)
  
  ASSEMBLY:  For The Glaze, sift confectioners' sugar into a medium
  bowl or large measuring cup.  Squeze in 1 tablespoon lemon juice and
  stir in yogurt until galze is smooth.  With cake on a wire rack set
  over a pan to catch drippings, pour glaze over the cake, allowing it
  to drip down the sides. Let cake stand at room temperature until
  glaze sets, about 10 minutes. (Can cover and store at room
  temperature for up to 2 days.)
  
  Makes 12 servings.
  
  [COOKS; Jan/Feb 1989] Posted by Fred Peters.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lite and Tasty Four-Flavored Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Sifted cake flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  White sugar
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Skim milk
    3/4 ts Vanilla Extract
    1/2 ts Almond Extract
    1/2 ts Lemon Extract
    1/4 ts Rum Extract
      4    Egg whites, stiffly beaten
 
  Spray the bottom of a 9x5x3 inch loaf pan with cooking spray; dust
  with flour and set aside.  combine flour, baking powder, salt, and
  sugar. Add oil and milk; beat at medium speed with an electric mixer
  until batter is smooth (batter will be thick)  Add extracts; fold in
  about one third of the egg whites.  Gently fold in remaining egg
  whites. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake at 350 F for 40 minutes,
  or until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean.  Cool in
  pan 10 minutes,remove from pan, and finish cooling on a wire rack.
  Makes 16 servings.
  
  Origin: Watkins Sales flyer Shared by: Sharon Stevens
  
  **  I screwed up big time the first time I tried this....  I was in a
  hurry to get it in the oven and done in time for supper, and I didn't
  read it right.  I nonchalantly threw in four eggs, the sugar and the
  oil and beat it up before I noticed that it was only the whites that
  I needed... All I did to bail myself out of this was to add another
  1/4 cup milk and about 1 1/4 cup flour and carried on with dignity..
  8-} It turned out okay.. took a bit longer to cook, but the kids said
  it was really good.**
  
  So... make sure you read the recipe ALL the way through before
  throwing stuff in the bowl... 8-}
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Luscious Lemon-Filled Cupcakes
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/4 c  Butter, softened, PLUS
      2 tb Butter, softened
    1/2 c  Honey, warmed
      8    Egg yolks, lightly beaten
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Milk
           ----Lemon Filling----
      2 tb Cornstarch, dissolved in 1
           -cup cold water
    1/2 c  Honey
      2    Egg yolks, lightly beaten
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Butter
 
  Makes 1 to 1-1/2 dozen
  
  *DIRECTIONS*
  
  Preheat oven to 325F. Butter muffin tins or line with paper cups.
  
  Sift flour with baking powder and nutmeg. In a large bowl beat
  together butter and honey for 3 minutes. Add egg yolks and continue
  to beat until fluffy. Mix in lemon juice. Add flour mixture and milk
  alternately, beating well after each addition. Using 1/2 of the
  batter, fill tins 1/3 full. Add 1 teaspoon lemon filling to each
  cupcake, top with remaining batter, and bake for 20 to 25 minutes.
  Makes 1 to 1-1/2 dozen cupcakes.
  
  Lemon Filling: Place dissolved cornstarch and honey in a medium-size
  saucepan. Cook, stirring constantly, until thickened. Add a little hot
  mixture to egg yolks. Add egg yolks to saucepan and cook for 2
  minutes, stirring constantly. Add lemon juice and butter. Stir until
  butter melts. Cool before using. Yields about 1-1/2 cups.
  
  Shared by: June Hoffman 4/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroon Cake (Gateau Sec Aux Noisettes)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    100 g  Flaky pastry (3 1/2 oz)
     30 g  Raspberries (1 oz)
    110 g  Sugar (3 3/4 oz)
     75 g  Ground hazelnuts (2 1/2 oz)
      2 x  Egg whites
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
           Caster sugar
           Icing sugar
           Slivered almonds
 
  Puree the raspberries in a liquidiser with 35 g ( 1 1/4 oz) of the
  sugar, then pass the mixture through a tamis.
  
  Prepare a macaroon paste by mixing, with a spatula, the rest of the
  sugar, the ground powered nuts, the egg whites and lemon rind.
  
  Roll out the pastry to a thickness of 2-3 mm ( 1/8 in) and line an 18
  cm ( 7 in) tart tin with a removable base. Prick it all over with the
  prongs of a fork (Put it in a refrigerator if you are not going to
  bake it at once).
  
  Pre-heat the oven to 220 oC/425 oF.
  
  Lightly sprinkle caster sugar over the uncooked pastry, then spread
  the raspberry puree over it in a smooth layer.
  
  Spread the macaroon mixture over the raspberry, smoothing the surface
  with the help of a spatula.
  
  Cook the cake for 40 minutes in the pre-heated oven. Reduce the heat
  to 180 oC/350 oF after 20 minutes if it is browning too quickly. Take
  it out and leave it to cool a little.
  
  Scatter the slivered almonds over the top of the cake while it is
  still warm. Sprinkle the cake with icing sugar then put it under  hot
  grill for just long enough to caramelise the sugar lightly. Take
  care, as this takes barely a minute.
  
  Let the cake cool, then take it out of the tin.
  
  (From: Fredy Girardet, Cuisine Spontanee, M Papermac, ISBN 0 333
  40957 4)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maple Pecan Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Maple syrup
    1/4 c  Unsalted butter
    1/4 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
        pn Ground mace
  1 3/4 c  Coarsely chopped pecan
  2 1/2 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
        pn Salt
    1/2 c  Room temperature unsalted
           -butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Room temperature egg
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
      1 c  Plain yogurt
    3/4 c  Dried currants
 
  Generously butter 10-inch-diameter cake pan with high sides (or 7 1/2
  x 11 1/2 inch ovenproof glass baking dish). Heat syrup, 1/4 cup
  butter, brown sugar and mace in heavy medium saucepan over low heat,
  stirring until sugar dissolves. Bring to boil. Pour into prepared
  pan. Sprinkle with pecans.
  
  Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 deg. Sift flour,
  baking soda and salt into bowl. Using electric mixer, cream 1/2 cup
  butter in another bowl. Add 3/4 cup sugar and beat until light and
  fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then beat 2 minutes. Blend in
  vanilla and lemon peel. Stir in flour mixture and yogurt alternately,
  beginning and ending with flour mixture. Fold in currants. Spoon
  batter atop pecan mixture, spreading gently to sides of pan. Bake
  until tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 55 minutes.
  Immediately invert cake onto rack set over sheet of waxed paper.
  Serve warm. Garnish with whipped cream if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mardi Gras Prize King's Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water; warm (105-115 degree
           -)
      2    Pkgs active dry yeast
  3 1/2 c  Flour (to 4 1/2 cups)
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Nutmeg; freshly grated
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Lemon rind; grated
    1/2 c  Water; lukewarm
      3    Eggs
      4    Egg yolks
    1/2 c  Butter; softened
      1    Egg, lightly beaten with 1 t
           -sp milk
      1    Dime, dried bean or miniatur
           - doll
      3 c  Confectioners sugar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice; strained
      3 ts Water or more
           Green, purple and yellow sug
           -rs*
 
  Soften yeast in water. Combine flour, sugar, nutmeg, salt and lemon
  rind in a large bowl. Make a well in center. Add yeast mixture, milk,
  eggs, egg yolks and combine completely. Beat in butter until dough
  forms a ball. Place on floured board; incorporate more flour if
  necessary. Knead until smooth and elastic. Stir dough in well
  buttered bowl and turn so all surfaces are buttered. Cover with a
  towel and let rise 1 1/2 hours or until doubled in bulk. Brush baking
  sheet in butter. Punch down on lightly floured board. Knead, then pat
  into a 14" cylinder. Place on baking sheet and form into a large
  ring. Press trinket into dough so that it is hidden. Set aside,
  covered with a towel, to rise 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Before baking, brush
  top with the egg milk mixture. Bake in a preheated 375 degree oven
  for 25 to 30 minutes, or until golden brown. Cool on wire rack. Beat
  icing ingredients until smooth. Spread over top of cake, letting drip
  down sides. Immediately sprinkle sugars over icing in 2" wide strips
  of purple, green and yellow stripes. *Colored sugar is sold in baking
  supply houses. If you can't find it, tint icing with food coloring.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave German Honey Spice Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  Dark brown sugar; packed
      2    Eggs; large
    1/2 c  Honey
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Nutmeg; ground
    1/2 ts Cinnamon; ground
    1/2 ts Cloves; ground
    1/2 ts Ginger; ground
    1/2 c  Water; boiling
      2 ts Lemon extract
      1 ts Lemon rind; grated
 
  Spray a 2 quart rectangular glass dish with non-stick coating; set
  aside. Put butter into a 2 quart glass bowl. Microwave on 30% (medium
  low) 2 minutes or until butter is soft. Cream in sugar; then eggs.
  Stir in honey. Sift flour together with soda, nutmeg, cinnamon,
  cloves and ginger. Add flour mixture, alternately, with water. Add
  lemon extract and rind. Pour batter into prepared dish. Rotating dish
  twice during baking, microwave on 70% (medium high) 10 to 12 minutes
  or until cake tests done. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moonlight Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     10    Egg whites
      7    Egg yolks
      1 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Cake flour
  1 1/2 ts Lemon extract
 
  Sift flour before measuring, then sift five times. Sift sugar five
  times. Add salt to egg whites, beat until frothy, then add cream of
  tartar. Continue beating, until egg whites are stiff but not dry. In
  another bowl, beat 7 egg yolks until creamy. Add to them, 2 tbsp
  beaten egg whites. To whites, gradually add sugar. Combine yellow and
  white mixtures. Fold in flavoring, flour. Rinse 4 1/2 x 10" tube pan
  with cold water before putting in batter. Bake in preheated 325
  degree oven for 60 to 65 minutes or until done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nectar Cakelettes
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Egg, well beaten
      1 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/4 c  Shortening
    1/3 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Lemon flavoring
 
  Plump raisins by steaming.  Chop.  Cream sugar with shortening. Add
  egg and milk.  Combine with raisins and flavoring.  Sift flour,
  measure, and sift with baking powder and salt.  Add to first mixture.
  Beat thoroughly. Pour into well-oiled muffin tins and bake in
  moderate oven (350 F) 15 minutes. When cakes are cool scoop out
  centers and refill cavities with raisin custard.
  
  Raisin Custard: 1 cup milk, scalded 1 tsp cornstarch 1/2 cup raisins
  1/2 tsp lemon flavoring Crumbs from Nectar Cakelettes 1/4 cup sugar 2
  eggs 2 Tbsp sugar
  
  Mix 1/4 cup sugar and cornstarch with egg yolks.  Pour into scalded
  milk and stir until thick.  Add raisins, which have been plumped by
  steaming, cake crumbs, and flavoring.  Remove from fire and when cool
  fill cakes. Make a meringue of egg whites and 2 tablespoons sugar.
  Cover top of each cake.  Bake in slow oven (325 F) until a delicate
  brown. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New England Sponge Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Orange or lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Cake flour
      1 tb Grated orange or lemon rind
    1/2 c  Boiling water
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Beat egg yolks until thick, add sugar gradually, fruit juice, and
  rind. Add hot water, stirring constantly.  Sift flour, measure, and
  sift with baking powder and salt.  Fold into egg mixture. Fold in
  stiffly whipped egg whites.  Pour into well-oiled loaf pan and bake
  in slow oven (350 F) about 40 minutes. Florence Taft Eaton, Concord,
  MA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Jello Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      1    3 oz box lemon jello
      4    Eggs
      1    Box lemon cake mix
    3/4 c  Crisco oil
           Juice of 2 lemons
      2 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Mix water, Jello and eggs. Beat 1 minute on medium speed. Add cake
  mix; beat 2 more minutes. Add Crisco oil; blend 1 to 2 minutes. Bake
  in greased 9 x 13" cake pan 40 to 45 minutes @ 325 degrees. While
  cake is still warm, poke small holes in top. Mix together lemon juice
  and powdered sugar. Drizzle into holes and on top of cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nougat, Nougat Powder (The Art of Fine Baking, 1961)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sugar, granulated
      2 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Almonds, blanched,toasted
    3/4 c  Filberts, toasted
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Chop nuts to medium fine size.  Combine sugar and lemon juice in a
  heavy skillet.  Melt over low heat, stirring constantly with a wooden
  spoon. When mixture is a deep golden color and sugar is completely
  dissolved, stir in nuts.  Pour out on a very well oiled pan.
  
  For Nougat Powder:  Break cooled nougat into pieces.  Grate into a
  powder with a nut grater or reduce to powder in the blender.  Store
  nougat powder in a covered jar.
  
  From "The Art of Fine Baking" by Paula Peck, copyright 1961
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Marmalade Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cloves
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    2/3 c  Soft butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Orange marmalade
      3    Eggs
    1/3 c  Milk
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
 
  Preparation time: 10 min. Baking time: 55 to 60 min. Oven
  temperature: 350 degrees F.
  
  This is a nutty, old-fashioned spice cake traditional in the South.
  When made with raspberry or blackberry jam it's called " Jam Cake".
  
  For one Bundt cake, 10 to 12 servings, you will need:
  
  Vanilla wafer crumbs Sliced oranges, for garnish
  
  Caramel Frosting: Combine 3/4 cup light brown sugar, 1/4 cup whipping
  cream, 2 teaspoons dark corn syrup, and a pinch of salt in a
  saucepan. Add 2 tablespoons butter. Bring to a boil. Boil until syrup
  reaches 234 degrees F on a candy thermometer or until a drop in cold
  water forms a soft ball. Beat until cooled and creamy.
  
  Preparation:
  
  1. In the large bowl of an electric mixer, combine the flour, sugar,
  cinnamon, baking powder, soda, salt, cloves, nutmeg, butter,
  marmalade, eggs, milk, lemon juice and nuts.
  
  2. Blend at low speed, scraping the bowl. Increase speed to medium
  and beat for 2 minutes.
  
  3. Butter an 8 1/2-inch (10-cup) tube type pan. Dust with vanilla
  wafer crumbs.
  
  4. Pour batter into the prepared pan.
  
  5. Bake at 350 degrees F for 55 minutes or just until a skewer
  inserted in the center comes out clean.
  
  6. Remove from the oven. Cool 5 minutes.
  
  7. Turn out of pan and finish cooling on a rack.
  
  8. Glaze with Caramel Frosting and garnish with sliced fruit.
  
  Source: Great American Recipes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Sponge
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Gelatin
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      3    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Boiling water
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Salt
 
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Dissolve in boiling water.  Add sugar
  and salt.  Stir until dissolved.  Cool.  Add strained fruit juices.
  Mix thoroughly.  Cool until partially set.  Beat until gelatin will
  hold its shape.  Pile lightly in serving dish. 10 servings.
  
  Mrs. F.D.W., Billings, MT.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Walnut Rum Cake with Grand Marnier Icing
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Butter or margarine
  2 1/2 c  Sifted flour
      1 c  Sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
           Grated rind of 2 oranges
      1 ts Baking soda
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
    1/2 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts
      1 c  Buttermilk or yogart
           Pour on liquid:
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Orange juice
      3 tb Lemon juice
      4 tb Rum
           GRAND MARNIER ICING
    1/3 c  Butter or margarine
      2 c  Confectioner's sugar
      1 tb Grated orange rind
 
  Grand Marnier
  
  Cream butter; gradually add sugar and beat until light.  Add fruit
  rinds; add eggs one at a time, beating thoroughly after each.  Add
  sifted dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beating after
  each addition until smooth.  Fold in nuts.  Pour into greased 9 or
  10-inch 2-quart tube pan. Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour.
  
  Strain fruit juices into saucepan.  Add sugar and rum;  bring to
  boil. Pour slowly over hot cake in pan.  If all liquid is not
  absorbed, pour remainder on later.
  
  FOR ICING:
  
  Bring butter to room temperature.  Mix all ingredients, adding enough
  Grand Marnier to make a spreading consistency.  Spread on cooled cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Sponge
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Gelatin
      4    Egg whites
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Banana, diced
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Orange, peeled and diced
    1/2 c  Crushed pineapple
    3/4 c  Chopped nuts
    1/4 c  Cold water
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  Soften gelatin in cold water.  Dissolve over boiling water.  Beat egg
  whites until stiff.  Fold in sugar and salt.  Carefully add fruits,
  nuts, and lemon juice.  Add gelatin, stirring constantly. Pour into
  molds. Chill. 8 servings.
  
  Mrs. F.C., Elgin, IA.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poppy-Seed Cake with Lemon Glaze
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Light veg. oil spray
      5    Apricot halves (from 8 1/4
           -  oz. can)
      1 c  Cake flour, sifted
      2 tb Poppy Seeds
      1 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Granulated sugar
           Whites of 5 large eggs at
           - room temperature
      2 tb Fresh squeezed lemon juice
      1 c  Confectioner's sugar
 
  1.  Heat oven to 350 degrees.  Spray the interior of a 10" bundt pan
  once lightly with the vegetable oil spray. 2. Puree the apricot
  halves to a smooth consistency in a food processor or blender.
  (Should yeild about 3 rounded Tbs.)  in a bowl, stir together the
  flour, poppy seeds, baking powder and salt until well combined. 3.
  Transfer the apricot puree to a large mixing bowl.  Turn the mixer to
  med.-high and graduall ad 3/4 cup of the granulated sugar, producing
  a thick, pale mixture that resembles beaten egg yolk.  Turn the mixer
  to low and add 1/4 cup of water and vanilla. Gradually add the flour
  mixture, continuing to beat until incorporated. 4. Using clean
  beaters, beat the egg whates at medium-high speed until thick.
  Gradually add the remaining 1/4 cup of sugar, beating until stiff
  peaks form and the meringue looks glossy. 5. Stir 1/3 of the meringue
  mixture into the batter to lighten it, then fold in the remainder.
  Pour batter into bundt pan.  Place in the oven and bake until a
  tester comes out clean and the center of the cake springs back to the
  touch. (about 25 min.) Transfer to a rack and cool for 30 to 40
  minutes. 6. In a small bowl, make a glaze by whisking together the
  lemon juice and confectioner's sugar. Set aside for 5 min.  Remove
  cake from the pan, place on rack over pan and spoon glaze over cake.
  If desired, garnish each serving with sliced apricots.
  
  [0.4 gram of fat/serving]
  
  from "Just Desserts: secret to fat-free-eating lies in substitution"
  Chicago Tribune Magazine,  April 25, 1993.
  
  posted by Bud Cloyd
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Cream Filling (The Art of Fine Baking, 1961)
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Potatoes, mashed
    1/4 c  Cream cheese
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Orange rind, grated
      3    Egg yolks
      1 ts Lemon rind, grated
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Servings: 1
  
  Cream butter until soft.  Beat in mashed potatoes and cream cheese.
  Stir in remaining ingredients.
  
  From "The Art of Fine Baking" by Paula Peck, copyright 1961
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Cake Roll
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
    2/3 c  Pumpkin
      1 ts Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Ginger
      2 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      6 oz Cream cheese
      4 ts Butter or margarine
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
 
  Beat 3 eggs at high speed for 5 minutes. Gradually, add 1 cup sugar.
  Stir in 2/3 cup pumpkin and 1 tsp. lemon juice. Mix the next 6
  ingredients and fold into pumpkin mixture. Pour into a greased and
  floured cake pan. Top with chopped walnuts. Bake @ 375 degrees for 15
  minutes. After baked, sprinkle a towel with powdered sugar. Tip cake
  out onto the towel. Sprinkle the cake with powdered sugar. Roll up in
  the towel and let cool. Topping: Place powdered sugar, cream cheese,
  butter and vanilla extract in mixing bowl. Beat until smooth. Unroll
  cake, gently, and spread withcream cheese mixture. Roll cake again.
  Chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red and Black Raspberry Pudding Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 9 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
     10 oz Frozen Red Raspberries *
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 c  Fresh Black Raspberries
    1/2 c  Unsalted Butter, Softened
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 lg Egg, Beaten Lightly
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Flour
  1 3/4 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  * Red Raspberries should be in syrup.
  ~---------------------------------------------------------------------
  ~-- Thaw and drain the frozen red raspberries well, reserving 1/3 cup
  of syrup. Pick over the fresh berries. In a heavy saucepan, combine
  the sugar and cornstarch, add the reserved syrup and lemon juice, and
  combine the mixture well. Add the thawed fruit and the fresh black
  raspberries, bring the liquid to a boil over moderate heat, stirring
  constantly, and simmer the mixture for 5 minutes. In a large bowl,
  cream the butter. Add the sugar, a little at a time, beating and beat
  the mixture until it is light and fluffy.  Add the egg and vanilla,
  and beat the mixture until it is smooth. Into a bowl, sift together
  the flour, baking powder, and salt. Add flour mixture to the butter
  mixture in small batches, alternating with additions of milk.  Beat
  well after each addition and blend the batter until it is smooth.
  Spread the batter evenly in a lightly buttered 9-inch square baking
  pan.  Spoon the berry mixture over it.  Bake in the middle of a
  preheated 350F oven for 20 minutes.  Reduce heat to 325F and bake
  for 20-25 minutes more or until tester comes out clean.  Let it cool
  on a rack for 10 minutes.  Serve with cream or whipped cream. a 1983
  Gourmet Mag. favorite by Nancy Bagget
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sponge Cake I
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
      1 c  Cake flour
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Beat egg yolks until thick.  Add salt, sugar, lemon juice, and rind.
  Mix well.  Sift flour, measure, and sift.  Fold into egg mixture.
  Carefully fold in egg whites which have been whipped until they hold
  their shape. Pour into un-oiled tube pan.  Bake in slow oven (325 F)
  about 40 minutes. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sponge Cake Ii
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Cake flour
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
 
  Beat egg yolks until thick.  Add salt, lemon juice, and grated rind.
  Stir into egg mixture.  Combine sugar and water and cook until sirup
  threads (236 F).  Pour slowly in a fine stream over egg whites which
  have been whipped until they hold their shape. Continue whipping
  until cool. Carefully fold in first mixture. Sift flour, measure, and
  sift. Fold carefully into egg mixture. Pour into un-oiled tube pan.
  Bake in slow oven (325 F) about 1 hour. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stars and Stripes Celebration Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      2    18 1/4 oz pkg yellow cake mi
           -
      3    Medium-size firm, ripe banan
           -s
    1/4 c  Lemon juice; freshly squeez
           -d
      2 pt Strawberries; fresh, washed
           - dried and hulled
     24 oz Heavy cream
    1/3 c  Confectioners sugar
  1 1/2 c  Blueberries; fresh
 
  One hour ahead: Heat oven to 350 degrees. Grease two 15 1/2 x 10 1/2
  x 1" jelly-roll pans; line with wax paper; grease paper. Prepare cake
  batter according to package directions, working with one package at a
  time. Spread batter in prepared pans; bake 15 to 20 minutes until
  wooden toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Invert cake
  layers onto wire racks; peel off paper; cool. In medium size bowl,
  toss banana slices with lemon juice. Pour off excess juice; set
  bananas aside. Slice about 24 well shaped strawberries lengthwise in
  half; reserve for top of cake. Coarsely chop remaining strawberries;
  set aside. In large bowl with electric mixer at high speed beat cream
  until soft peaks form; gradually beat in sugar until stiff. Spoon
  half whipped cream into second bowl; fold in chopped strawberries.
  Set both creams aside. Place one cake layer on large serving platter;
  tuck strips of wax paper under cake to keep platter clean. Using
  spatula, spread strawberry cream over cake; top with second cream
  cake layer. Spread plain cream over top and sides of cake; carefully
  remove wax paper strips. In top left hand corner of cake, using tip
  of sharp knife, mark 7 1/2 x 5" rectangle. Place blueberries in even
  rows in the rectangle to form stars of the flag. To from stripes,
  alternate rows of strawberries and bananas, overlapping fruit in each
  row as necessary. Chill until serving time, up to 2 hours. Cut into 2
  x 1 1/2" pieces to serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Rice Coconut Milk Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Rice flour
      3 c  Granulated sugar
      3 c  Coconut milk
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Active dry yeast
      1 ts Water
      1    Wine rice ball, crushed to a
           -powder
 
  Combine 3 tablespoons of the rice flour, 1/4 cup of the coconut milk,
  and 1/2 teaspoon of yeast with the wine rice ball.  Cover and allow
  to stand at room temperature for three hours.
  
  Cook 2 1/2 cups of the coconut milk with the sugar just long enough
  to melt the sugar.  Remove from the heat and cool.
  
  After the yeast-rice flour mixture has rested for three hours,
  combine it with the coconut milk-sugar mixture.  Mix well, cover, and
  allow to rest at room temperature for another 3 hours.  At the end of
  the resting time, combine the mixture with the remaining coconut
  milk, lemon juice, and the remaining 1/2 teaspoon of yeast, which
  should first be dissolved in the teaspoon of water.  Transfer to
  several small bowls or pans so that the mixture fills it only halfway
  to allow room for expansion. Let stand overnight, at room
  temperature. The following day, steam [using the wet steaming method
  as described on page 36] for 30 minutes.
  
  Serve the cake either hot, cold, or at room temperature.
  
  Note: A wine rice ball can be purchased in Oriental grocery stores.
  They are about the size of a camphor ball, and white.  To crush, use
  a rolling pin or a blender.
  
  Steaming
  
  A steamer consists of a pot in which water is boiled and at least two
  more metal inserts or layers that fit directly on the lower pot of
  water, one above the other.  These inserts are perforated, allowing
  wet steam to circulate freely through the layers and enabling either
  a large quantity of one food or several different foods to be cooked
  at the same time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Fruit Shortcake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Mixed fresh fruit
      3 tb Granulated sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Strawberry puree
      1 c  Whipping cream, whipped
           LEMON BISCUITS
           Milk
           Grated rind and juice of 1
           -lemon
      2 c  All purpose flour
      2 tb Granulated sugar
      4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Shortening
      2 tb Butter
 
  Traditionally, fruit shortcakes are served on warm, split and buttered
  baking powder biscuits.  For a change, try these Lemon Biscuits.  Use
  any seasonal fruit such as strawberries, blueberries,
  blackberries,raspberries, red currants, plums and peaches.
  
  In bowl, sprinkle fruit with 2 tbsp of the sugar and lemon juice;
  toss to mix well.  Set aside.
  
  LEMON BISCUITS
  
  In measuring cup, add enough milk to lemon juice to make 2/3 cup;
  stir and set aside for 15 minutes to sour.  In bowl, stir together
  flour,sugar, baking powder, salt and lemon rind; using pastry blender
  or two knives, cut in shortening and butter until well mixed.  With
  fork, blend in soured milk to make soft dough.  Don't overmix.  Turn
  out dough onto lightly floured surface; knead 6-8 times.  Roll out or
  pat dough to 1/2 inch thickness. Using floured 3 inch round cutter,
  cut out 6 biscuits. Sprinkle lightly with more sugar. Bake on greased
  baking sheet in 425 F oven for 12-15 minutes or until tops are
  browned. Let cool until warm;cut in half horizontally.  Spoon fruit
  mixture onto bottom halves of biscuits, reserving some fruit for
  garnish. Stir strawberry puree with remaining sugar; spoon over fruit
  mixture. Top with dollop of whipped cream, then biscuit tops. Garnish
  with more cream and remaining fruit. Makes 6 servings.
  
  Origin:  Canadian Living cooking collection:  Great Desserts Shared
  by: Sharon Stevens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut Spice Cake with Lemon Curd
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/4 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Ground "cinnamon"
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter, melted and cooled
      1 tb Grated lemon peel
    3/4 c  Hot water
    1/3 c  Unsulfured molasses
    1/3 c  Honey
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
           Purchased Lemon curd
 
  Servings:  8
  
  Preheat oven to 350F. Butter 8-inch square baking dish.  Sift first 6
  ingredients together.  Whisk egg and sugar in large bowl to blend.
  Whisk in butter and lemon peel.  Combine hot water, molasses and
  honey in large cup.
  
  Add to butter mixture alternately with dry ingredients,beginning and
  ending with dry ingredients.  Mix in walnuts.  Transfer to prepared
  dish. Bake until springy to touch, about 50 minutes. Cool cake
  slightly on rack.
  
  Cut cake into squares.  Serve warm or at room temperature, spooning
  lemon curd over each piece.
  
  Source: Bon Appetit, Too Busy To Cook posted by Linda Davis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A 14-Minute Maple Candy
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Maple sirup
      1 c  Cream
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Nut meats, chopped
      1 ts Lemon extract
 
  Cook the maple sirup, cream, and butter for 9 minutes after the
  boiling point is reached.  Remove from heat, add the nut meats and
  extract and stir for 5 minutes. Pour into buttered pans and when
  cool, cut into squares.
  
  From: Culinary Arts Institute Encyclopedic CookBook Shared By: Pat
  Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aplets and Cotlets
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 64 servings
 
      3 tb Gelatin
      3 c  Apple juice or unsweetened
           -apricot juice
  1 1/3 c  Granulated sugar
      2 tb Each lemon and lime juice,
           -or more as needed
    2/3 c  Cornstarch
      2 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Makes about 64 small cubes
  
  Soften the gelatin in 1/2 cup of the apple juice.  Boil remaining
  juice with the sugar for 15 minutes to concentrate it.  Mix the lemon
  and lime juice, and add all but 1/4 cup cornstarch to dissolve it in
  the mixture. Add both gelatin mixture and cornstarch mixture to the
  boiled juice and boil again rapidly for 10 minutes until very thick,
  stirring constantly. Taste for sweet and sour and add more lemon
  juice if wanted.
  
  Mix in the walnuts and pour mixture into a 9-by-9-by-2-inch baking
  pan that has been dipped in cold water.  Let paste harden 12 hours or
  overnight, then cut with a sharp knife into squares. Mix together the
  reserved 1/4 cup cornstarch and powdered sugar. Remove squares with a
  spatula and roll each in the powdered sugar mixture (the cornstarch
  helps keep the sugar dry).
  
  I Hear America Cooking From the collection of Jim Vorheis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aplets
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      4 tb Plain gelatin
      2 ts Lemon juice
  2 1/4 c  Unsweetened applesauce
      2 c  Chopped nuts
      2 ts Vanilla
      4 c  Sugar
           Confectioners' sugar
 
  Aplets are a great bar cookie for summertime or school lunch boxes! In
  Washington State, and other places where they are marketed, you can
  buy Aplets and Cotlets and Grapelets. With this recipe you can make
  your own.
  
  APLETS
  
  In cup or small bowl stir gelatin into 1 cup applesauce; set aside
  until gelatin dissolves. In medium saucepan stir sugar into remaining
  applesauce. Add gelatin dissolved in applesauce. Over medium heat,
  stir constantly and bring to boil; turn heat to lowest setting and
  simmer 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Add lemon juice last 5
  minutes of cooking. Remove from heat. Add vanilla and nuts. Pour into
  buttered 8-inch square pan. Cover loosely and let stand overnight.
  When firm, cut into 1 inch squares. Roll in confectioner's sugar.
  
  The recipe says it makes about 3 dozen squares.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cactus Candy
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Granulated sugar
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Orange juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  From: Arizona Cookbook
  
  Select prickly pear cactus (or small barrel cactus if you own this
  type of cactus, since it's illegal to remove it from the desert).
  Remove spines and outside layer with large knife. Cut pulp across in
  slices one-inch thick. Soak overnight in cold water. Remove from
  water, cut in one0inch cubes and cook in boiling water til tender.
  Drain. Cook slowly in the following syrup until nearly all the syrup
  is absorbed. Do not scorch!
  
  SYRUP for 2 QUARTS of CACTUS CUBES
  
  Heat all ingredients until sugar is dissolved. Then add cactus.
  Remover cactus from syrup, drain and roll in granulated or powdered
  sugar. For colored cactus candy, any vegetable food coloring may be
  added to the syrup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fig Squares
 Categories: Candies, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Figs
    1/3 c  Crystallized ginger
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Toasted coconut
    1/4 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Nuts
 
  Combine figs, nuts, salt, and ginger.  Put through food chopper using
  medium knife.  Add lemon juice.  Knead into a paste on a board
  dredged with powdered sugar.  Roll thin.  Cut in 1-inch squares. Put
  together in layers of three, sprinkling the coconut between the
  layers. Mrs. R.F. Higginbotham, Covington, OK.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Jellies
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 pt Strained fresh raspberry
           -juice
      1 lb Loaf sugar
      1 oz Powdered gelatin
           Colouring if necessary
      2 tb Cold water
     10    Drops lemon juice
 
  Raspberry Jellies Prepare raspberry juice by crushing the fruit,
  warming it in a bowl over hot water until the juice flows freely and
  then straining through muslin. Soak the gelatine in the cold water.
  Dissolve the sugar in the juice and boil up to 240 F or the soft ball
  stage. Add the lemon juice and gelatine. Re-heat to 240 F and pour
  into a tin previously rinsed in cold water.  If the colour is pale
  add a few drops of cochineal before the end, but fresh fruit should
  give a brilliant colour. When set, loosen the sides with a hot knife
  and stand the pan on a cloth wrung out of boiling water.  Turn the
  jelly out on to a board. Cut into cubes and roll in very fine
  confectioner's sugar. Stand the sweets in a warm place overnight so
  that the sugar crystals adhers. Blackcurrant Jujubes 1/2 pint pure
  strained blackcurrant syrup 1 oz granulated sugar 1 tablespoon pure
  glycerine 6 tablespoon glucose 1 oz powdered gelatine Soften the
  gelatine in a little water.  Dissolve the sugar and glucose in the
  juice - very slowly, over gentle heat.  Add glycerine and bring to
  boiling point. Remove from heat, add gelatine and stir until
  dissolved. Re-heat but do not boil. Rinse a 6" sandwich tin with cold
  water; pour the jelly mixture in. Proceed as in second paragraph of
  directions for Raspberry Jellies. This is a very good sweet for
  irritated throats. Fruit Jellies All juicy fruits in season make
  delicious sweets.  Proceed as for Raspberry Jellies, using colouring
  when necessary to enhance the natural tint. Redcurrants, gooseberries
  ~ both green and red - blackberries, hips and pineapples are just a
  few to be tried.  Fresh pineapple must be well cooked if used with
  gelatine, as it contains a natural digestant which dissolves
  gelatine. Two methods of Crystallising: CRYSTALLISING CANDIED FRUIT
  (This is the chapter that the author said to use for crystallising
  the jellies. I assume where it says fruit you would substitute
  jellies.) A sparkling finish is much sought after in this class of
  sugar work, so here are two recipes-one very simple, the other
  correct and of lasting quality. SIMPLE CRYSTALLISING Dip each fruit
  very quickly into boiling water-just in and out-drain it on
  blotting-paper or butter muslin.  Have ready sufficient sieved
  granulated sugar spread upon a sheet of paper to accommodate the
  fruits. Roll them gently about in the sugar until completely coated.
  Leave in a dry, warm situation for some hours to reduce any moisture.
  They will have a satisfying appearance, glistening in the light.
  ADVANCED CRYSTALLISING A crystallising tray is much to be desired for
  this purpose, but to improvise, a baking tray, deep and able to
  accommodate two wire cake racks on top of each other, will serve very
  well. Carefully measure how much liquid will be required to cover the
  fruits when they rest in the tin. Place one rack in the baking tin,
  arrange the fruits upon it so that they do not touch each other or
  the side of the pan. Place the second rack feet upwards upon the
  fruits, holding them gently in place. Cut a piece of greaseproof
  paper the exact size of the interior of your saucepan. Fold it across
  and across, then nip the centre point out leaving a hole about 1" in
  diameter. Make a syrup by dissolving 2 pounds of granulated sugar in
  1 pint (20 ounces) of water. This is your basic recipe- increase it
  proportionately if the amount will not cover the fruits in the tin.
  They must be entirely immersed. Bring the syrup to a boil and strain
  it through muslin wrung out in hot water. Return the syrup to the
  saucepan, bringing it up rapidly to 220-225 F, remembering that the
  higher temperature gives larger crystals, and is good for imposing
  fruits, while 220 F gives finer crystals suitable for cherries,
  grapes and nuts. Put the pan where it won't be jarred in the slighest
  degree, covering the actural syrup with the prepared circle of paper.
  Steam will escape through the central hole. Agitation of the pan will
  result in a "grainy" syrup, so tread warily. When slightly cool-about
  15 minutes-tilt the saucepan so that the syrup flows gently around
  and over the fruits held down by the wire cake rack. Cover with a
  cloth and leave for at least 12 hours. Then, if you have a
  crystallising tray, draw off the liquid.  Otherwise, gently lift your
  tray of fruits from the baking tin.  In eigher case place the fruits
  in a warm cupboard to thoroughly dry off once more. They should be
  covered with shimmering crystals of a size to suit your taste,
  according to the original temperature of the syrup. You will be left
  with a quantity of syrup which cannot be used again for
  crystallising. It can, however be used to make delicious toffee or to
  sweeten stewed fruits. Used with apples in lieu of sugar, it gives a
  unique flavour to an Apple Cake.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Drops
 Categories: Candies, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Strained honey
      1 tb Butter or butter substitute
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Baking soda
           Few grains salt
 
  Heat honey to boiling.  Add baking soda, butter, lemon juice, and
  salt. Boil to hard ball stage (265 - 270 F).  Pour into well-buttered
  pan. Cool. Pull until white and porous.  Cut in 1 inch pieces. Iva C.
  Hamilton, Fremont, OH.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lokum
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Granulated sugar
  4 1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 c  Cornflour
      1 ts Cream of tartar
      1 tb To 2 tb rose water
           Red food colouring
    1/2 c  Chopped, toasted almonds,
           -unblanched
    3/4 c  Icing (confectioner's) sugar
           Additional 1/4 cup cornflour
 
  Combine sugar, 1 & 1/2 cups water and lemon juice in a thick based
  pan. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves, brushing sugar
  crystals off side of pan with a bristle brush dipped in cold water.
  
  Bring to the boil and boil it to soft ball stage, 115 degrees Celsius
  (240 degrees Farenheight) on a candy thermometer.  Remove from the
  heat.
  
  In another thick based pan blend cornflour, cream of tartar and 1 cup
  cold water until smooth.  Boil remaining 2 cups of water and stir
  into cornflour mixture, then place over heat.  Stir constantly until
  mixture thickens and bubbles. Use a balloon whisk if lumps form.
  
  Pour hot syrup gradually into cornflour mixture, stirring constantly.
  Bring to the boil and boil gently for 1 & 1/4 hours.  Stir
  occassionally with a wooden spoon and cook until mixture is a pale
  golden colour. Stirring is essential.
  
  Stir in rose water to taste and a few drops of ted food colouring to
  tinge it a pale pink.  Blend in nuts if used, and remove from heat.
  
  Pour into an oiled 23 cm (9 inch) square cake tin and leave for 12
  hours to set.
  
  Combine icing sugar and the 1/4 cup cornflour in a flat dish.
  
  Cut Turkish Delight into squares with an oiled knife and toss into
  sugar mixture.
  
  Store in a sealed container with remaining sugar misture sprinkled
  between layers.
  
  Variations:
  
  Creme de Menth Lokum: replace rose water and red food coloring with 2
  tablespoons
  
  Creme de Menth liqueur and a little green food coloring.  Omit nuts.
  
  Orange Lokum:  Use 1-2 tablespoons orange flower water instead of rose
  water; use orange food colouring.
  
  Vanilla Lokum:  Use 2 tablespoons vanilla essence instead of rose
  water and colouring, and stir in 1/2 cup toasted chopped almonds or
  chopped walnuts. Do not blanch almonds.
  
  Hope this is what you were after.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marzapan
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    250 g  Sugar
    500 g  Shreded almonds
    200 g  Dusting sugar (10 x extra
           -very fine)
      2    Beated eggs
      1 tb Lemon juice (Real one)
      1 ts Almond essence
 
  Place sugar in a bowl with the almonds, add the eggs, lemon juice and
  the almond essence.  Now go and wash your hands very well and wipe
  them extremly well (very dry). Mix the batter and make a ball with
  it. Now on a dusting sugar covered place the "ball" and by hand start
  to knead it until it is soft enough. Now is ready for use.
  
  Can be used on top of cakes and then coming the glace in fine stripes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Northwestern Apple Candy
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    To 5 unpeeled apples
      2 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Cold water
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Confectioners' sugar (for
           -rolling)
 
  Wash apples; without peeling or coring, cut in small pieces.  Cook
  until very tender in just enough water to avoid scorching.  Put
  through a food mill or sieve and measure 2 cups pulp into a 2 quart
  heavy saucepan. Cook until thick, stirring often.
  
  Soften gelatin in cold water. Mix sugar, cornstarch and salt; add to
  apple pulp.  Cook again over low heat, stirring constantly, until
  mixture is very thick.  Add gelatin; stir until gelatin is dissolved
  and mixture is again thick.  Remove from heat.
  
  Stir in walnuts, lemon peel, and juice.  Turn into an 8" square
  shallow glas dish that has been rinsed with cold wate.  Let stand 24
  hours.
  
  Cut rectangles (about 60).  Roll in confectioners sugar, and place on
  rack until outside is dry.  Store in covered container.   Makes about
  1 pound 12 ounces.
  
  Note: You can use 2 cups sweetened canned applesauce to make this
  confection, but reduce the amount of sugar from 2 to 1-1/3 cups.
  
  From: Choice Candy From Your Own Kitchen Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raisin Nougat
 Categories: Candies, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  White corn sirup
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 lb Marshmallow cream
      2 tb Cocoa butter
      1 c  Raisins
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Lemon flavoring with yellow
           -coloring
           OR
    1/2 ts Raspberry flavoring with
           -pink coloring
 
  Boil sugar, salt, sirup, and water to hard crack stage (285 - 290 F).
  Stir constantly.  Remove from fire.  Stir marshmallow cream in
  rapidly. Add cocoa butter; mix well.  Add coloring, flavoring, and
  raisins. Pour into well-buttered pan. Spread 1/2 inch thick. Cut in
  squares. The Household Searchlight
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southwest Cactus Candy
 Categories: Candies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Orange juice
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Syrup
 
  Select prickly pear cactus (or small barrel cactus if you own one
  since it is illegal to remove it from the desert,) and remove spines
  and outside layer with large knife.  Cut pulp across in slices 1 inch
  thick. Soak overnight in cold water; cut in 1 inch cubes and cook in
  boiling water until tender. Drain. Cook slowly in the following syrup
  until nearly all the syrup is absorbed. Do not scorch.
  
  Heat all ingredients until sugar is dissolved.  Add cactus.  Remove
  cactus from syrup, drain and roll in granulated or powdered sugar.
  For colored cactus candy, any vegetable coloring may be added to
  syrup.
  
  From: Recipes and Remembrances Shared By: Pat Stockett
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruits Tarts
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Fruit, Pie/tart
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------CHEESE TART SHELLS--------------------------
    1/2 c  Vegetable Shortening
      5 oz American Cheese Spread;1 Jar
  1 1/2 c  Unbleached Flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2    Navel Oranges;Peel & Section
  8 1/4 oz Pineapple; Crushed, 1 Cn
    1/4 c  Sugar
      5 ts Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Orange Juice
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    3/4 c  Cheddar; Sharp, Shredded
 
  CHEESE TART SHELLS: Combine the shortening and cheese spread in a
  medium bowl. Cut flour into the cheese mixture with two knives until
  well blended. Shape into a roll 1 1/4-inch in diameter and 12 inches
  long. Wrap completely in waxed paper or plastic wrap. Refrigerate for
  1 hour or longer. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Remove the dough
  from the refrigerator and unwrap. Slice 1/8-inch thick. Using 12 (2
  3/4-inch) muffin cups or 3-inch tart pans, place 1 slice of dough in
  the bottom of each. Overlap 5 slices around the outside of each.
  Gently press together. Pierce the bottoms and sides with a fork. Bake
  18 to 20 minutes in the preheated oven until lightly browned. Cool in
  the pans on a rack and gently remove the shells when cold to the
  touch.
  
  FILLING: Cut each orange section into 3 pieces and set aside. Drain
  the pineapple, reserving the syrup. Combine the pineapple syrup,
  orange juice, and lemon juice in a saucepan. Stir in the rest of the
  ingredients except the cheddar cheese, and cook, stirring gently,
  over medium heat until the mixture thickens and bubbles. Stir in the
  orange pieces and pineapple. Refrigerate for at least 1 hour. Spoon
  the chilled filling into the baked tart shells and sprinkle each tart
  with about 1 Tbls of the cheddar cheese. Refrigerate until serving
  time.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Bavarian
 Categories: Aust/german, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 qt Strawberries; fresh
      1 tb Gelatin; unflavored,(1 env.)
      2 ts Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  ;water, cold
      1 c  Cream; heavy, whipped
 
  Slice strawberries and mix with the sugar. Let stand until sugar
  dissolves. Sprinkle gelatin over cold water. Set stand 5 minutes,
  then heat gently until gelatin dissolves completely. Add gelatin and
  lemon juice to sliced berries. Fold in whipped cream. Pour into a
  1-quart mold or serving dish. Chill until set. Carefully unmold and
  serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bake Cherry Cheese Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    9" graham cracker crust
      1 pk 8 oz softened cream cheese
      1 c  14 oz. sweetened condensed;
           Milk ( not evaporated)
    1/3 c  Concentrated lemon juice
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 c  Cherry pie filling
 
  In a large mixer bowl,beat cheese until fluffy. Beat in Condensed milk
  until smooth. Stir in lemon juice and vanilla. Pour into crust. Chill
  3 hours or until set. Top with desired amount of e filling before
  serving. Refrigerate leftovers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Quebec Apple Dumplings (Canadian)
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pie dough (double batch)
    1/4 c  Cheddar cheese-grated
     12 md Apples; peeled & cored
    1/2 c  Mincemeat
    1/4 c  Rum
           Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Sugar; Brown
    1/4 c  Cream
           Lemon rind; 1/2 lemon
 
  Preheat oven to 400F. Make enough pie enough to roll into 12 6"x6"
  squares (about a double batch.) Sprinkle each square with 1 tsp
  grated cheddar. Peel and core apples and place one on each square.
  Fill the center of each apple with 2 tsp (or 1 heaping tsp) of
  mincemeat, 1 tsp of rum, a dot of butter and 1 Tablespoon sugar.
  Bring diagonally opposite corners of dough over the apple to form
  ears at the top. Cover the 'ears' with aluminum foil. Mix the brown
  sugar, cream and grated lemon rind. Brush the dumplings with this
  mixture and bake 35 to 45 minutes in 400F oven. Remove foil, brush
  ears with cream mixture and return to oven till 'ears' are brown.
  Serve warm to plain cream or sweetened cream, flavored with rum.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pouding Renverse des Bluets (Blueberry Upside Down Puddin
 Categories: Desserts, Puddings, Fruit, Canadian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Blueberries;fresh -OR-
      1 pk -Blueberries, 300 g
           -individually frozen,
           -unsweetened
    3/4 c  Sugar,granulated
      1 ts Lemon rind;grated
  1 1/4 c  Flour;all purpose
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts -Salt
    1/4 c  Shortening
      1    Egg;beaten
      1 ts Vanilla
    2/3 c  Milk
           Whipped cream -OR-
           Ice cream; opt
 
  Pouding Renverse des Bleuets
  
  Lemon-flavoured cake batter baked over fresh blueberries makes a
  perfect dessert. When I was immersed in French language studies at
  Jonqiere's Centre linguistique, Jeannine Renouf treated me to this
  recipe and also to a version that she makes with wild raspberries. It
  was a delectable kind of immersion.
  
    Combine blueberries, 1/4 cup of the sugar and lemon rind in a
  buttered 8 inch square baking pan.
    In a bowl, combine flour, baking powder and salt. In another bowl,
  cream shortening with remaining 1/2 cup sugar until fluffy. Beat in
  egg and vanilla. Add dry ingredients alternately with milk, blending
  well after each addition and finishing with dry ingredients.
    Pour batter over fruit in pan and bake in a preheated 350F oven for
  about 40 minutes, or until a tester inserted in centre comes out
  clean. Let cool slightly; turn out onto serving plate. Cut in squares
  and serve warm or at room temperature, with whipped or ice cream, if
  desired. SERVES: 6-8
  
  SOURCE: _A Taste of Quebec_ by Julian Armstrong
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tony's Mom's Lemon Snowflakes
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 60 servings
 
      1 pk Lemon cake mix w/pudding
  2 1/4 c  Thawed cool whip
      1    Egg
           Powdered sugar
 
  1.  In a mixing bowl, combine cake mix, whipped topping, and egg.
  Beat with an electric mixer on medium speed until blended. Batter
  will be very thick and sticky.
  
  2.  Drop by teaspoonsful into powdered sugar; roll lightly to coat.
  Place on ungreased cookie sheet and bake at 350F for 10-12 minutes or
  until lightly browned.
  
  Yields:  5-6 dozen
  
  Source:  Eilene Kiger - Blodgett Oregon (Tony Hammerquist's mom!)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Low Calorie Lemon Bavarian From Kaitlin Young
 Categories: Tasteofhome, Low cal/fat, Desserts
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Unflavoured gelatin
      4 tb Unsweetened concentrated
           Apple juice, thawed
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 tb Grated lemon rind
    2/3 c  Unsweetened pineapple juice
      1 c  Evaporated skim milk
 
  1. In a bowl combine apple juice and gelatin. Let stand in a
  container of hot water until dissolved.
  
  2. Stir in lemon juice, rind, and pineapple juice, and chill until
  partially set.
  
  3. Meanwhile, pour the evaporated skim milk into a bowl, and place in
  the freezer until crystals form. Once the gelatin mixture is set,
  beat the evaporated milk until thick and fluffy. Beat the gelatin
  mixture until light and frothy. Combine the two mixture together, and
  pour into a mold. Chill until set.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maple Pecan Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      1 c  Wheat Pastry Flour
    1/2 c  Unsalted butter, cut up
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Ground Pecans
      3 tb Ice Water

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 c  Maple Syrup
      1 c  Sugar
      4 lg Eggs, lightly beaten
      3 tb Unsalted Butter, melted
      1 tb Vanilla
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Lemon Zest
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Pecans, halved
 
  Crust: In a large bowl blend the flour, butter, salt and pecans until
  the mixture resembles meal. add 2 Tb of the water, toss the mixture
  until the water is incorporated, adding more water to form a dough,
  and form the dough into a ball. Dust the dough with flour and chill
  it, wrapped in wax paper for 1 hour. Roll our the dough 1/8" thick on
  a lightly floured surface, fit it into a 9" glass pie plate, and
  crimp the edge. Chill the shell while making the filling.
  
  Filling: Preheat the oven to 450. In a large bowl whisk together the
  syrup, sugar, eggs, butter, vanilla, lemon juice, zest and the salt.
  Add the pecan halves. Pour the filling into the shell and bake the
  pie in the middle of the oven for 10 minutes. Reduce the temperature
  to 350 and bake the pie for 35 minutes, or until the filling is just
  set.
  
  Source: Gourmet Magazine, October 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingerbread Cupcakes with Lemon Cream Cheese Frosting
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/2 ts Allspice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2    Stick unsalted butter PLUS
      2 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Molasses
      1 lg Egg, beaten lightly
      1 ts Baking soda
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
  1 1/2 c  Confectioners' sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Grated lemon zest
      2 ts Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Sliced crystalized ginger
 
  Into a bowl sift together the flour, the ground ginger, the cimmamon,
  the cloves, the allspice, and the salt.  In another bowl cream 1/2
  stick of the butter, add the granulated sugar, and beat the mixture
  until it is fluffy. Beat in the molasses and the egg, beating until
  the mixture is smooth. In a measuring cup combine the baking soda
  with 1/2 cup boiling water and stir the mixture to dissolve the
  baking soda. Stir the mixture into the molasses mixture (the mixture
  will appear curdled) and stir the molasses mixture into the flour
  mixture, stirring to combine the ingredients well. Line twelve
  1/2-cup muffin tins with paper liners and spoon the batter into the
  liners, filling them halfway.  Bake the cupcakes in the middle of a
  preheated 350~ F oven for 20 minutes, or until a tester comes out
  clean. (The cupcakes will be flat or slightly indented on top.)
  Transfer the cupcakes to a rack and let them cool.
  
  In a bowl cream together the cream cheese and the remaining 2
  tablespoons butter, add the confectioners' sugar and the vanilla, and
  beat the mixture until it is fluffy and smooth.  Beat in the zest and
  the lemon juice and chill the frosting for 30 minutes. Frost the
  cupcakes and top each with some ginger.  Makes 12.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Slovak Doughnuts
 Categories: Desserts, Breads, Ethnic, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Yeast
      1 pt Scalded, cooled milk
      7 c  Flour (Approx)
      4 ea Egg yolks
      1 ea Egg
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 lb Butter
    1/2 x  Grated rind, lemon or orange
 
  Dissolve yeast in lukewarm milk. Add 2 cups of flour. Let stand in
  warm place 30 minutes. Beat egg yolks, egg, sugar, vanilla, rind
  (grated rind of 1/2 lemon or 1/2 orange) and salt until light. Add
  this to the yeast mixture. Melt butter and mix in, then add remaining
  flour. Cover and let rise one hour or until double in bulk. When
  light, turn on floured board and pat with hands till dough is half an
  inch thick. Cut with a doughnut cutter, cover and let rise again
  until light. Drop in hot fat and fry till done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cactus Honey Sherbet
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 md Peaches
      1    Envelope unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Cold water
      1 c  Prickly pear juice
  1 1/2 c  Prickly pear pieces
    1/2 c  Honey
      5 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
 
  Plunge the peaches into a large pot of boiling water for one minute;
  using a slotted spoon, transfer them immediately to a large bowl of
  cold water. The skins should slip off easily.  Slice the peaches.
  There should be about 1 1/2 cups.
  
  Sprinkle gelatin over the 1/4 cup of cold water in a small bowl.  Set
  aside.  Combine 1 cup prickly pear juice with peach slices and
  prickly pear pieces in a medium saucepan.  Simmer over low heat for
  five minutes.
  
  Turn off the heat under the fruit and strain off 1 cup of juice.  In a
  small saucepan, combine the juice and honey and cook gently just at a
  simmer for eight minutes.  Add the softened gelatin and lemon juice
  to the honey mixture and stir until gelatin is dissolved.
  
  Puree the fruit and remaining juice in a blender.  Combine with the
  gelatin and honey mixture and freeze in a bread pan or similar
  container. When nearly hard, remove from freezer, transfer to a bowl,
  and beat with an electric mixer.  Beat the whipping cream until stiff
  and fold into the fruit mixture.  Return to the bread pan.  Refreeze
  until firm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dried Fruit Compote
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Jewish
      Yield: 16 servings
 
    3/4 lb Pitted prunes
    1/2 lb Dried peaches, apples
           -or pears
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1    Lemon; quartered
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1    Whole clove
      1    Cinnamon stick
 
  Fruit compotes are a typical dessert for a Sabbath meat meal.
  
  In a large saucepan, combine fruits, sugar, clove and cinnamon stick
  with 6 c. water. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, cover, lower
  heat and simmer until tender, 30 to 45 minutes. Remove lemons, clove
  and cinnamon stick before serving warm or chilled.
  
  Yield: About 8 cups; serves 16.
  
  Nutritional information per serving: 122 calories; 1 g protein; 0 g
  fat; 32 g carbohydrates; 3 mg sodium; 0 mg cholesterol.
  
  Posted by Al Rice of Alaska.  Formatted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamantashen
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Jewish, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 48 cookies
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    3/4 c  Pitted prunes
    1/3 c  Raisins
    1/3 c  Coarsely chopped apple
    1/4 c  Walnut pieces
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 ts Lemon zest

MMMMM------------------------COOKIE DOUGH-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
           -- preferably canola
      2 tb Butter or margarine
           -- at room temperature
      1 lg Egg
      1 ts Pure vanilla extract
      2 c  All-purpose white flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 pn Salt
 
  "The traditional cookie for Purim, hamantashen is Yiddish for "Haman's
  pockets".  They are meant to recall the story of Haman, a wicked
  Persian prince who wished to destroy the Jews but was foiled by
  Mordecai and Esther."
  
  To make filling: In a small saucepan, combine prunes, raisins and l/2
  c. water.  Simmer over low heat until the prunes are tender but still
  firm and liquid has been absorbed, about 10 minutes.
  
  In a food processor, combine the prune mixture, apples, walnuts,
  sugar, lemon juice and lemon zest; process until smooth.  Transfer to
  a small bowl and set aside. (The filling can be made up to 2 days
  ahead and kept, covered, in the refrigerator.)
  
  To make cookies: In a medium-sized bowl, using an electric mixer on
  medium speed, cream sugar, oil and butter until smooth.  Add egg and
  beat until smooth.  Add vanilla and beat until blended.
  
  In another medium-sized bowl, sift together flour, baking powder and
  salt. Using a wooden spoon, stir the dry ingredients into the sugar
  mixture until just combined.  Gather the dough together into a ball,
  wrap with plastic wrap, and flatten slightly.  Refrigerate for 2 to 3
  hours or overnight.
  
  Line 2 baking sheets with baking parchment or coat with non-stick
  cooking spray. Set aside.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
  
  Divide the dough in half. (Refrigerate the other half.)  Roll out on a
  lightly floured surface to a thickness of 1/2" inch.  Using a 2 1/2"
  diameter cookie cutter, cut the dough into circles.  Place l/2 tsp.
  of the filling in the center of each circle.  Bring the edges
  together to cover the filling, forming a 3-cornered cookie.  Pinch
  the corners together to seal.  Place about 1 1/2" apart on the
  prepared baking sheets.
  
  Bake for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the tops are golden.  Transfer to
  racks to cool.  Repeat with the remaining dough. (Store cookies in an
  airtight container for up to 3 days.  Freeze for longer storage.)
  
  Nutritional information per serving: 58 calories each; 1 g protein; 2
  g fat; 6 g carbohydrates; 13 mg sodium; 9 mg cholesterol.
  
  Posted by Al Rice of Alaska.  Formatted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zwieback Cottage Cheese Torte
 Categories: Desserts, Jewish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      6 oz Package zwieback toasts
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
      3 tb Vegetable oil
           -- preferably canola
      1 tb Butter; melted

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  1% milk
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
  2 1/2 c  1% cottage cheese
    2/3 c  Reduced-fat sour cream
      1 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs; separated
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Grated lemon zest
      1 tb Butter; melted
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Grated nutmeg
      2 lg Egg whites

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1 pt Fresh strawberries
 
  Cheesecakes and other dairy treats are customary for the Jewish
  festival of Shavuoth.
  
  To make crust: Lightly oil a 9-inch springform pan, or coat it with
  non- stick cooking spray.
  
  Place zwieback in a food processor with sugar and cinnamon. Add oil,
  butter and 2 tb. water. Process until the crumbs are evenly
  moistened. Reserve 2 tb. of the crumb mixture for the top of the
  torte. Press the remaining crumb mixture into the bottom and sides of
  the springform pan. Set aside.
  
  To make filling: Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. In a small bowl,
  combine milk and cornstarch. Whisk until smooth; set aside. In a food
  processor, puree cottage cheese and sour cream until smooth, about 1
  minute. Add sugar, egg yolks, lemon juice, lemon zest, butter,
  cinnamon, nutmeg and milk mixture and process.
  
  In a large mixing bowl, beat 4 egg whites until stiff but not dry.
  Fold the cheese mixture into the egg whites with a spatula. Pour into
  the prepared pan.
  
  Sprinkle with the reserved crumbs and bake for 1 hour, or until well
  puffed. (There will be a few cracks.) Turn off the oven and leave the
  torte in the oven for 1 hour with the door closed, to cool gradually.
  Remove from oven; transfer to a rack to cool completely. (The cake
  may be stored, covered, for up to 3 days in the refrigerator.) Serve
  garnished with strawberries.
  
  Nutritional information per serving: 355 calories; 12 g protein; 11 g
  fat; 53 g carbohydrates; 336 mg sodium; 59 mg cholesterol.
  
  Posted by Al Rice of Alaska.  Formatted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Anise Cookies #2
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Italian
      Yield: 3 dozen
 
      2 c  Flour
      2 ts Ground anise seed (or 1 ts
           -anise extract)
    1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 lg Lemon
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Vegetable shortening
 5 3/16 tb Unsalted butter
      1    Egg yolk
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 tb Sugar (for decoration)
      1 ts Ground cinnamon (for decor.)
 
  Thoroughly stir together flour, anise, baking powder, and slat and set
  aside.  Using a small sharp knife peel a thin layer of zest (without
  white membrane) from the entire lemon.  Combine lemon zest and sugar
  in a food processor fitted with a steel blade.  Process until zest is
  very finely minced.  Add shortening and butter to the processor and
  process for one minute.  Add egg yolk and vanilla and process 20
  seconds longer. Add dry ingredients and continue processing just
  until they are blended.
  
  Divide dough in half and place each portion between large sheets of
  waxed paper and roll out to 1/8 inch thick.  Check the underside of
  the dough to check for any creases.  Slide dough onto a large tray or
  baking sheet and refrigerate for 15 minutes, or until the dough is
  chilled and slightly firm.
  
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.  Lightly grease several baking sheets.
  
  Work one half of the dough at at time.  Turn the dough over and peel
  the sheet of wax paper off of the dough and replace the paper
  loosely. Then turn the dough right side up.  Peel off and discard the
  top sheet of paper. Using assorted 2 1/4 to 3" cookie cutters cut out
  cookies.
  
  Place in the oven and bake for 8-10 minutes or until just brown ant
  the edges.  Remove from the oven and let stand for 3 minutes.
  Transfer to wire racks and let stand until cooled completely.
  Sprinkle cookies with the decoration mixture.
  
  [from the rec.food.recipes archives]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hazelnut Biscotti
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 36 cookies
 
      1 c  Hazelnuts (about 4 oz)
    1/4 lb Butter, unsalted, room temp
      1 c  Sugar
      1 lg Lemon, grated zest of
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  All purpose flour,
           Plus 2 Tbsp
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  I just made this recipe once, and I substituted toasted sliced
  almonds for the hazelnuts. It was really good.
  
  Preheat oven to 350-F. Spread the hazelnuts on a baking sheet and
  toast in the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, until fragrant. Place the nuts
  in a dish towel and rub them together to remove some of the skin.
  Coarsely chop the hazelnuts and set aside.
  
  In a large bowl, using a hand-held electric mixer, beat the butter at
  medium speed until soft and creamy. Add the sugar and lemon zest and
  beat until the mixture is very light and fluffy, about 2 minutes.
  Beat in the eggs, one at a time, and then beat in the vanilla.
  
  In a medium bowl, toss the flour, baking powder and salt. Gradually
  add the flour mixture to the butter, beating on low speed until a
  smooth dough forms. Using a wooden spoon, work in the hazelnuts until
  evenly distributed.
  
  Divide the dough in half in the bowl. With lightly floured hands,
  form the dough into two 10-by-2 inch rectangular logs. Place the logs
  on an ungreased baking sheet, at least 2 inches apart. Bake for 30
  minutes, or until the logs are set and golden brown. Remove from the
  oven and let cool on the baking sheet for 15 minutes.
  
  Using a serrated knife and a sawing motion, carefully cut the logs
  into 1/2-inch diagonal slices. discard the end pieces. Arrange the
  slices, cut sides down and close together, on 2 baking sheets. Bake
  the biscotti on the top and middle racks of the oven for 8 to 9
  minutes, or until lightly browned. Turn the biscotti over, switch the
  position of the baking sheets and continue baking until lightly
  browned on the other side, about 9 minutes longer. Let the biscotti
  cool completely on the baking sheets.
  
  Source: Food & Wine magazine, 10/90 From:
  shelley.rodgers@f202.n161.z1.fidonet.org (Shelley Rodgers)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORTUGUESE BISCOTTI
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 tb Lemon zest
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      3    Egg
      3 c  Flour
 
  In large bowl of an electric mixer, beat 1 cup of the sugar and butter
  until well blended. Add lemon peel and juice; mix to blend. Beat in
  eggs, 1 at a time, until smooth.  Gradually stir in 3 cups of the
  flour, mixing well. cover and chill until dough is firm enough to
  handle easily, at least 3 hours or as long as 2 days.  For easier
  handling, chill the dough before you form the ring-shaped cookies.
  Divide dough in half. Cover and chill 1 portion.  Divide other half
  into 8 equal pieces. With floured fingers, roll each piece on a
  lightly floured board to make a 10-inch rope. Overlap ends of each
  rope slightly to form a ring. Place rings about 1 inch apart on a
  greased 14x17 inch baking sheet. Sprinkle light with sugar. Bake in a
  300 F. oven until golden, 35-40 minutes. Remove cookies from pans and
  let cool completely on racks. Repeat with remaining dough. Serve or
  store airtight up to 10 days.
  
  Sunset magazine, date unknown From:
  shelley.rodgers@f202.n161.z1.fidonet.org (Shelley Rodgers)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Crisp
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Fresh or frozen blueberries
  1 1/2 c  Granola
    1/3 c  Coconut
      2 tb Shortening
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  Recipe by: Better Homes and Gardens ~Old-Fashioned~ Home Baking
  
  Thaw blueberries, if frozen. Do Not Drain.
  
  For topping, in a medium mixing bowl stir together granola, coconut &
  shortening.  Set topping aside.
  
  For filling, in a large mixing bowl stir together blueberries and
  their juices, sugar, lemon juice, and cinnamon. Transfer the filling
  to an ungreased 10" X 6" X 2" baking dish.
  
  Sprinkle the topping on the filling. Bake in a 375F oven for 30 to 40
  minutes or till the topping is crisp. Serve warm. Makes 6 servings.
  
  Adapted from "Better Homes & Gardens".  Posted by Marjorie Scofield
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Bundt Cake Supreme
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Vegetarian
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
  1 1/2 ts Cream of tartar
      1 tb Baking soda
    1/4 ts Sea salt
  1 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
      2 tb Egg replacer
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Natural applesauce
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Pineapple juice concentrate
           -- (frozen, thawed)
      1 ts Almond extract
 10 1/2 oz Silken tofu; drained
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Ground almonds
      1 c  Crushed pineapple; drained
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  Oil and flour a bundt pan.
  
  Sift all-purpose flour, cream of tartar, baking soda and salt into a
  medium-size bowl.  Stir in whole wheat flour and wheat germ.  Set
  aside.
  
  In a small bowl, whisk egg replacer and water until foamy.  Set aside.
  
  In a large bowl, mix applesauce and brown sugar.  Stir in corn syrup,
  juice concentrate, almond extract and egg replacer.
  
  Place tofu in food processor and blend while gradually adding lemon
  juice through feed tube.
  
  Fold dry ingredients into applesauce mixture alternately with tofu
  mixture. Gently stir in almonds and crushed pineapple.
  
  Pour into prepared pan and bake until light brown and cake springs
  back when touched lightly, about 45 minutes.
  
  Turn out on a wire rack and let cool for 30 minutes.  Slice and serve.
  
  Per serving: 273 cal, 7 g prot, 224 mg sod, 46 g carb, 8 g fat, 0 mg
  chol, 148 mg calcium
  
  Hint: Place tofu on paper towels to absorb moisture and make sure it
  is thoroughly drained before blending.
  
  From: Marie Oser, in Vegetarian Gourmet (Winter 1993) Typed for you by
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemmon-Poppy Seed Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 1 cake
 
    1/2 c  Reduced-fat margarine or
           Light butter
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Egg whites
    2/3 c  Unbleached flour
    2/3 c  Oat bran
  1 1/2 tb Poppy seeds
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Nonfat lemon yogurt
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Lemon rind, freshly grated
           ---glaze
    1/3 c  Confectioners'sugar
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  1. Beat margarine or butter and sugar until smooth. Beat in egg
  whites. In large bowl, combine flour, oat bran, poppy seeds and
  baking soda. Add flour mixture, yogurt, lemon juice and rind to
  margerine mixture.
  
  2. Spread batter in nonstick, 12-cup Bundt pan.  Bake at 350 degrees
  for 40 minutes or until toothpick comes clean. Cool in pan for 20
  minutes. Invert onto a wire rack. For glaze, combine confectioners'
  sugar with lemon juice. Drizzle on cake.
  
  Published in Newsday (Long Island, NY newspaper) Dec 21, 1994 in From
  My Kitchen to Yours from "Secrets of Fat Free Baking" by Sandra
  Woodruff. Meal Mastered by stut@liii.com.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackberry and Apple Crumble Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    680 g  Cooking apples
    450 g  Blackberries
     75 g  Caster sugar
           Juice and rind of 1 lemon
     10 ml Arrowroot mixed with
     15 ml Cold water
     75 g  Unsalted butter
     75 g  Caster sugar
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
      5 ml Baking powder
     75 g  Ground almonds
    225 g  Plain flour
  2 1/2 ml Ground cinnamon
     12    Whole almonds to decorate
 
    Peel, core and slice cooking apples and place in a pan with
  blackberries, sugar, lemon juice and rind and 45 ml water. Simmer
  gently for 10 mins until the fruit is just softened. Add arrowroot
  mixture and stir until thickened. Cool.
   To make the base and topping, blend together butter and sugar in a
  processor unti soft and fluffy. Add beaten egg, baking powder, ground
  almonds, flour and ground cinnamon and process until just crumbly.
  Turn mixture into a bowl.
   Grease and line a 23 cm springform pan. Turn out 2/3 of the crumble
  mixture onto a floured surface and knead gently together to combine.
  Use to cover base of prepared pan, simply pushing any cracks together.
   Spread cooled blackberry and apple mixture over base. Sprinkle
  reserved crumble mixture evenly over fruit topping and decorate with
  whole almonds. Bake at 350 F for 50 mins until pale golden.
   Serve warm or cold. Source: Woman Sept 20/93
  
  From the collection of Karen Deck
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Poppy Cake Ring
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Margarine or butter;softened
      1 tb Lemon extract
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      3 lg Eggs
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Poppy seeds
      1 tb Grated lemon peel
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
           Confectioners' sugar (opt)
 
   Preheat oven to 350 F. Grease and flour 9-inch bundt pan.
   In a large bowl, with mixer at low speed, beat sugar, margarine or
  butter, lemon extract, vanilla extract, and eggs until blended.
  Increase speed to high; beat 5 minutes or until very thick,
  occasionally scraping the bowl with a rubber spatula. Reduce speed to
  low; add flour, milk, poppy seeds, grated lemon peel, baking powder,
  and salt; beat until well blended, scraping bowl often.
   Pour batter into pan. Bake 50 to 60 minutes until toothpick comes out
  clean. Cool cake in pan on wire rack 10 minutes; remove from pan. Cool
  completely on rack. Sprinkle with confectioners' sugar if desired.
  Source: Good Housekeeping  Dec/90
  
  From the collection of Karen Deck
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herbal Lemon Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      1 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar; divided
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Dried lemon herbs*
           -- finely chopped
 
  *1/3 cup total: Herbs such as lemon grass, lemon thyme or lemon basil.
  
  Cream butter and 1 3/4 cups sugar.  Add eggs and vanilla; beat well.
  
  Combine the flour, baking powder, salt and herbs.  Add to creamed
  mixture; mix.
  
  Drop dough by teaspoonfuls, 3" apart, on a greased cookie sheet.
  Flatten slightly with a fork or cup bottom.  Sprinkle lightly with
  the remaining sugar.
  
  Bake at 350 F. for 8 to 10 minutes, or until barely browned. Cool
  slightly, then remove to a rack.
  
  Yield: 6 to 8 dozen cookies.
  
  Recipe from Nancy Brewer/New Orleans, Louisiana.  In "Kitchen Table:
  Where Herbs and Spices Make a Difference" column in "The Herb
  Companion." Dec. 1993/Jan. 1994, Vol. 6, No. 2.  Pg. 84. Posted by
  Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mango Upside Down Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Sliced ripe mangos
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Margarine
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Margarine
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Milk
  1 1/4 c  Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Pour lemon juice over mangos and let stand 15 minutes.  Melt 1 Tbsp.
  margarine in 8 in. cake pan or casserole.  (Do not use iron skillet as
  mangos will darken.)  Add brown sugar and cover with mango slices.  To
  prepare cake batter, cream margarine; add sugar and cream; add beaten
  egg. Sift dry ingredients and add alternately with milk.  Pour over
  mangos and bake 50 to 60 minutes at 375.  When cake is done, turn
  upside down and serve while warm.
  
  Steve O'Hair University of Florida Tropical Research and Education
  Center Homestead
  
  From: sko@gnv.ifas.ufl.edu (Stephen O'Hair)
  
  From: Tropical Fruit Recipes Rare and Exotic Fruits.  Rare Fruit
  Council International, Inc. Miami, Florida.
  
  on rec.food.recipes
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Tofu "cheesecake"
 Categories: Desserts, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 cake
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
      2 c  Grape-Nuts cereal
    1/4 c  Maple syrup
    1/4 ts Almond extract

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 lb Silken tofu, drained (it
           -will say silken on the
           -container)
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 tb Tahini
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Lemon zest
      1 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Almond extract
      2 tb Cornstart dissolved in 2
           -tb rice or soy milk
 
  Crust:  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Place cereal in a food
  processor or blender; grind to fine crumbs, about 2 minutes. Transfer
  to mixing bowl. Add maple syrup and almond extract; mix well until
  crumbs are moistened.
  
  Pour into oiled 9-inch pie plate and press mixture evenly on bottom
  and up sides to form crust.  Bake 5 minutes; let cool while preparing
  filling.
  
  Filling:  Blend all ingredients in food processor or blender until
  very smooth, about 30 seconds.
  
  Pour into crust.  Bake until top of pie is slightly browned, about 30
  minutes.  Cool and refrigerate until thoroughly chilled and firm,
  about 2 hours.  Makes 8 servings.
  
  Variations:
     *Alternatively, use a prepared graham cracker crust.
     *For a no-bake cheesecake, omit cornstarch mixture.  Pour
      filling into crust and refrigerate until firm, at least 2
      hours or overnight.  The texture will resemble that of a
      cream pie.
     *Add vanilla-flavored liqueur instead of lemon juice and zest
      for a vanilla cheesecake.
     *Reduce the sweetener, eliminated the lemon juice and zest,
      and add pureed raspberries
     *If the fat content doesn't concern you too much, add 12
      ounces of melted semisweet chocolate instead of fruit.
     *To serve as a pudding, omit the crust and pour the filling
      into custard cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Cynthia
 Categories: Casseroles, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Pepper
      4 ea Chicken breasts,large,halved
      2 tb Onion,chopped
  1 1/2 c  Chicken stock,hot
      4 tb Sherry
    1/4 lb Grapes,seedless
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Paprika
     10 tb Butter or margarine,softened
      1 c  White wine,dry
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ea Oranges,peeled/sectioned
 
  1. Combine 6 tablespoons flour, salt, pepper and paprika.
  2. Roll chicken breast halves in seasoned flour.
  3. Heat 6 tablespoons butter in large ovenproof skillet; brown
  breasts in butter lightly on both sides.
  4. Lower heat; cook gently 10 minutes.
  5. Sprinkle with onion; add white wine and bring to a boil.
  6. Cover pan tightly; bake in preheated 350'F. oven 20 minutes.
  7. Work remaining flour and remaining butter together in a bowl with a
  fork.
  8. Add hot chicken stock to make a paste; mix well.
  9. Add flour paste, lemon juice and sherry to chicken; cover and bake
  15 to 20 minutes longer.
  10. To serve, arrange breasts on heated platter; spoon sauce over
  chicken.
  11. Garnish with orange sections and grapes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plum-Sauced Chicken
 Categories: Casseroles, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Damson plum jelly
    1/4 c  Dark corn syrup
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Onion powder
      2 ea Chickens,broiler-fryer,8ths
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Corn oil
  2 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ginger,ground
 
  1. Combine all ingredients except chicken in a large bowl; mix until
  blended.
  2. Add chicken pieces, turning to coat.
  3. Cover and refrigerate 1 hour.
  4. Place chicken pieces on a rack in a foil-lined shallow roasting
  pan.
  5. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 45 minutes, basting chicken with plum
  jelly mixture occasionally; turn once.
  6. Increase oven temperature to 450'F.; bake chicken, basting with
  sauce twice, until well glazed, about 15 minutes.
  7. Remove drippings from pan; skim off fat.
  8. Serve drippings hot as a sauce with the chicken.
  NOTE: Serve with hot cooked rice and cooked snow peas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Idaho Chicken Scallop
 Categories: Casseroles, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Celery,chopped,w/leaves
      2 c  Milk
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Marjoram,dried leaf
      4 ea Idaho potatoes
    1/2 c  Onion,chopped
      2 tb Flour
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Pepper
  2 1/2 c  Chicken,cooked,cut up
 
  1. Melt butter in a saucepan over low heat.
  2. Add onion and celery with leaves; cook until tender.
  3. Blend in flour; stir in milk.
  4. Cook, stirring constantly, until sauce thickens and comes to a
  boil.
  5. Stir in lemon juice, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt, pepper, marjoram and
  chicken; remove from heat.
  6. Pare potatoes; cut in very thin slices.
  7. Place sliced potatoes in a greased 1 1/2-quart baking dish;
  sprinkle with remaining salt.
  8. Pour chicken sauce over potatoes; cover and bake in preheated
  425'F. oven 1 hour, or until potatoes are tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Catfish Bienville
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Catfish fillets(4-5oz ea)
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts White pepper
      1 x  Cherry tomatoes(opt)
      1 tb Butter or margarine,melted
      1 ts Salt
      1 x  Parsley sprigs(opt)

MMMMM----------------------BIENVILLE SAUCE---------------------------
      3 ea Bacon slices,chopped
    1/3 c  Chopped green onions(w/tops)
      2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Sherry
    1/2 lb Shrimp,cooked,drained
    1/4 ts White pepper
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Flour,all-purpose
      8 oz American cheese,small pieces
      1 cn Mushrooms,sliced(4oz)
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce
 
  1. Thaw frozen fish according to package directions.
  2. Prepare Bienville Sauce; keep warm.
  3. Place fillets on well-greased rack of broiler pan.
  4. Combine butter, lemon juice, salt and pepper; brush fillets with
  butter mixture.
  5. Broil 6 inches from heat for 8 minutes, or until fish flakes
  easily when tested with fork.
  6. Remove fish to warm serving platter; spoon Bienville Sauce over
  fillets.
  7. Garnish with parsley and cherry tomatoes if desired.
  *** BIENVILLE SAUCE ***
  1. In medium skillet, cook bacon and onion until bacon is light
  brown.
  2. Add butter and flour; cook over low heat, stirring constantly,
  until mixture is smooth (do not brown flour).
  3. Add milk gradually, making a smooth paste; cook over low heat until
  thickened and bubbly.
  4. Add cheese; continue cooking over low heat until cheese melts.
  5. Stir in remaining ingredients.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gulf-Style Creole Fish
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Onion,finely chopped
      1 cn Tomatoes,stewed(14.5oz)
    1/2 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1 cn Clams,minced,drained(6.5oz)
      1 x  Lemon wedges
    1/2 c  Green bell pepper,chopped
      1 lb Turbot or other white fish
      1 cn Tomato paste(6oz)
  1 1/2 ts Creole seasoning blend
      1 x  Hot cooked rice
 
  1. Melt butter in a large skillet over medium heat; add bell pepper
  and onion and cook 6 to 8 minutes or until tender, stirring
  occasionally.
  2. Add fish and cook 5 minutes or until fish is opaque, stirring
  occasionally.
  3. Stir in tomatoes, tomato paste, mushrooms and seasoning.
  4. Bring to a boil, reduce heat and simmer 10 to 15 minutes or until
  slightly thickened.
  5. Stir in minced clams and cook, uncovered, 2 minutes until
  thoroughly heated, stirring occasionally.
  6. Serve with rice, garnished with lemon wedges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Catfish Frangelica, Lafitte's Landing
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Catfish fillets(5-7oz ea)
      1 x  Cayenne pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine,melted
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Butter
      1 x  Salt to taste
      1 x  Paprika for color
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    1/4 c  Pecan halves

MMMMM------------------FRANGELICA BUTTER SAUCE-----------------------
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Butter,cold chipped
      3 tb Frangelica liqueur
 
  1. Thaw frozen fish according to package directions.
  2. Prepare Frangelica Butter Sauce.
  3. Season catfish with salt and cayenne, sprinkle with paprika and
  place in baking dish.
  4. Add melted butter, wine and lemon juice.
  5. Bake uncovered in preheated 450'F. oven 5 to 7 minutes (do not
  overcook).
  6. Place on serving platter and top with Frangelica Butter Sauce and
  pecans sauteed in 2 Tablespoons butter.
  *** FRANGELICA BUTTER SAUCE ***
  1. In medium saucepan, slowly reduce cream and Frangelica together
  until approximately 6 tablespoons remain.
  2. Slowly add butter, a few chips at a time, swirling pan constantly
  to incorporate butter into cream (do not stir); continue swirling
  until all butter has been added.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chat du Lac
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 ea Catfish fillets(about 2lb)
    1/2 c  White wine
      1 x  Salt to taste
      2 tb Flour,all-purpose
    1/2 ea Juice of lemon
      2 tb Parsley,finely chopped
      5 tb Butter or margarine,softened
    1/2 lb Mushrooms,thinly sliced(2c)
      1 x  Black pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Milk
      2 tb Parmesan cheese,fresh grated
 
  1. Thaw frozen fish according to package directions.
  2. Rub rectangular baking dish with 1 tablespoon of the butter.
  3. Pat fillets dry; arrange in dish in one layer.
  4. Add wine; scatter mushrooms over fish and sprinkle with salt and
  pepper.
  5. Bake in preheated 400'F. oven 10 minutes.
  6. Meanwhile, melt remaining 4 tablespoons butter in saucepan; add
  flour, stirring with whisk.
  7. Add milk, stirring; when blended and smooth, remove from heat.
  8. Pour liquid from baked fish into saucepan, stirring; bring to a
  boil and cook, stirring often, about 5 minutes.
  9. Stir in lemon juice; pour sauce over fish and bake 10 minutes
  longer.
  10. Sprinkle with cheese and parsley; serve hot.
  NOTE: Recipe compliments of Craig Claiborne and Trilby's Restaurant of
  Ocean Springs, Mississippi.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fillet of Catfish Bayou Lafourche
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Catfish fillets(5-7oz ea)
      1 c  Flour,all-purpose
      1 x  Cayenne pepper to taste
    1/2 c  White wine,dry
      2 ea Juice of lemon
      2 tb Tarragon,chopped fresh
      2 tb Green onion,chopped
      2 tb Chives,chopped
    1/2 c  Butter,clarified
      1 x  Salt to taste
    1/2 c  Champagne
     12 ea Oysters,fresh shucked
      2 tb Shallots,chopped
    1/2 ts Tarragon,dried
    1/2 c  Butter,unsalted
 
  1. Thaw frozen fish according to package directions.
  2. Season catfish with salt and cayenne; dust with flour, shaking off
  excess.
  3. Heat clarified butter in large heavy skillet.
  4. Place fillets in skillet, flat side up; saute over medium heat
  until brown.
  5. Turn fillets and continue to saute until brown, then remove to
  heated plates.
  6. Deglaze skillet with champagne or wine; add oysters, oyster liquor,
  lemon juice, shallots, fresh or dried tarragon, and green onions.
  7. Cook until oysters begin to curl, then remove and place 3 on each
  fillet.
  8. Reduce liquid in skillet until a glaze forms, then add cold
  butter, a few chips at a time, swirling pan constantly (do not stir,
  as spots will develop and butter solids and liquids will separate).
  9. Continue adding butter; butter will emulsify, creating a smooth
  creamy sauce.
  10. Add chives, adjust seasoning with salt and cayenne, and pour over
  oysters.
  NOTE: Served a famous Lafitte's Landing retaurant in Donaldsonville,
  Louisiana.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plantation-Style Catfish Fillets
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 ea Catfish fillets(4-5oz ea)
      1 x  Salt
      1 x  Paprika
      2 ea Garlic cloves,chopped
      4 c  Spinach
      3 tb Parmesan cheese,grated
    1/8 ts Lemon juice,fresh
      1 pn Black pepper
    1/2 c  Flour,all-purpose
      1 x  Pepper
    1/3 c  Shortening,vegetable
      1 cn Whole tomatoes(28oz)
      2 pk Spinach,frozen(10oz)
      1 pk Dairy sour cream(8oz)
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  1. Thaw frozen fish according to package directions.
  2. Mix flour and salt, pepper, and paprika to taste. Dust fish in
  seasoned flour.
  3. In large, heavy skillet, saute fillets in hot shortening until
  crisp and golden; remove.
  4. Saute garlic 1 minute; add tomatoes and cook until heated through,
  about 2 minutes.
  5. With slotted spoon, lift out tomatoes (reserve sauce in skillet);
  arrange tomatoes.
  6. Heat reserved sauce; add spinach and cook just until tender.
  7. Arrange spinach in center of dish; place fillets on top.
  8. Blend 1 tablespoon of the cheese with remaining ingredients and
  spoon over fillets.
  9. Sprinkle with remaining cheese, brown under broiler and serve at
  once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: New Orleans Catfish
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Catfish fillets
      1 pn Black pepper
      2 tb Onion,grated
      6 ea Lemon slices,thin,seeded
      1 x  Parsley chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Cooked rice
    1/2 ts Curry powder
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
 
  1. Thaw fish according to package directions.
  2. Cut fish into serving-size portions; place in a well-greased
  13x9x2-inch baking dish and sprinkle with salt and pepper.
  3. Mix rice, onion and curry powder; spread over fish.
  4. Top with lemon slices and dot with butter.
  5. Cover and bake in preheated 350'F. oven 25 to 35 minutes or until
  fish flakes easily.
  6. Uncover last few minutes of cooking to allow for slight browning.
  7. Sprinkle with parsley and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shark Kebabs
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Shark meat,1x1.5" pieces
    1/2 c  Rice wine
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Ginger,ground
      3 tb Peanut oil
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      1 ea Garlic clove,minced
      3 tb Vegetable oil
 
  1. Place fish in glass bowl.
  2. Combine remaining ingredients except oil; pour over fish.
  3. Cover and chill for 2 hours, turning occasionally.
  4. Reserving marinade, thread fish chunks on skewers.
  5. Basting often with marinade, cook over low coals or under a
  broiler 10 to 15 minutes, or until fish flakes easily.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout with Roasted Pecans a la Commander's Palace
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 ea Eggs,lightly beaten
      2 ts Creole seafood seasoning
      6 ea Trout fillets(6oz ea)
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 x  Lemon wedges
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Flour,all-purpose
    1/2 c  Butter,clarified
    1/4 c  Margarine

MMMMM------------------------PECAN BUTTER-----------------------------
      1 c  Pecans,shelled
    1/2 ea Juice of lemon
    1/4 c  Butter,unsalted
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce

MMMMM-------------------CREOLE MEUNIERE SAUCE------------------------
      2 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Fish stock
      1 x  Black pepper to taste
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Parsley,chopped
      2 tb Flour,all-purpose
      1 x  Salt to taste
    1/2 c  Butter,unsalted
      1 ea Juice of lemon
 
  1. Prepare Pacan Butter and Creole Meuniere Sauce; set aside.
  2. Combine eggs and milk, beating until well blended.
  3. Combine seafood seasoning and flour on waxed paper or in pie plate;
  dredge fillets in seasoned flour, coating well on both sides.
  4. Dip fillets in egg-milk mixture, then again in seasoned flour.
  5. Melt clarified butter in large skillet over medium-high heat.
  6. Place fillets carefully in skillet; saute quickly, turning only
  once, until crisp and golden brown on both sides, about 3 minutes per
  side.
  7. Arrange fillets on warm serving platter or plates.
  8. Top each fillet with heaping teaspoon Pecan Butter, coating entire
  fillet; sprinkle with heaping tablespoon reserved chopped roasted
  pecans.
  *** PECAN BUTTER ***
  1. Spread pecans on cookie sheet and roast in preheated 350'F. oven 10
  minutes.
  2. Coarsely chop half the roasted pecans and reserve for garnish.
  3. Put remaining pecans in blender or food processor container.
  4. Add butter, lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce; blend until very
  smooth.
  *** CREOLE MEUNIERE SAUCE ***
  1. Heat oil in heavy skillet; remove from heat and add flour.
  2. Return to heat and cook, stirring, until roux is medium brown in
  color.
  3. Slowly whisk in stock; bring to a boil, stirring constantly, and
  simmer 45 minutes.
  4. Add salt and pepper.
  5. Reansfer sauce (there should be about 1 cup) to 2-quart saucepan;
  bring to a quick boil.
  6. Whisk in softened butter and Worcestershire sauce; continue to
  whisk until butter is absorbed.
  7. Add lemon juice and parsley; whisk again briefly and remove from
  heat.
  8. This sauce should be used within 45 minutes from time ir is
  completed.
  NOTE: Recipe is time-consuming but results are well worth the effort.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Meuniere Sauce
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Fish stock
      1 x  Black pepper to taste
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Parsley,chopped
      2 tb Flour,all-purpose
      1 x  Salt to taste
    1/2 c  Butter,unsalted
      1 ea Juice of lemon
 
  1. Heat oil in heavy skillet; remove from heat and add flour.
  2. Return to heat and cook, stirring, until roux is medium brown in
  color.
  3. Slowly whisk in stock; bring to a boil, stirring constantly, and
  simmer 45 minutes.
  4. Add salt and pepper.
  5. Reansfer sauce (there should be about 1 cup) to 2-quart saucepan;
  bring to a quick boil.
  6. Whisk in softened butter and Worcestershire sauce; continue to
  whisk until butter is absorbed.
  7. Add lemon juice and parsley; whisk again briefly and remove from
  heat.
  8. This sauce should be used within 45 minutes from time ir is
  completed.
  NOTE: Recipe is time-consuming but results are well worth the effort.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pecan Butter
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Pecans,shelled
    1/2 ea Juice of lemon
    1/4 c  Butter,unsalted
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  1. Spread pecans on cookie sheet and roast in preheated 350'F. oven 10
  minutes. 2. Coarsely chop half the roasted pecans and reserve for
  garnish. 3. Put remaining pecans in blender or food processor
  container. 4. Add butter, lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce; blend
  until very smooth.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Soft-Shell Crawfish
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     24 ea Crawfish,soft-shell,fresh
      1 x  Butteermilk
      1 x  Oil for frying
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 x  Flour
      1 x  Hollandaise sauce

MMMMM---------------------CRAWFISH STUFFING--------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Onion,minced
    1/2 c  Parsley,chopped
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1 ea Egg,beaten
      4 c  Breadcrumbs
      1 tb Flour
      1 tb Garlic,minced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
      4 c  White bread,chopped
      2 lb Crawfish tails,chopped

MMMMM---------------------HOLLANDAISE SAUCE--------------------------
     10 ea Egg yolks
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Tarragon vinegar
      1 lb Butter,melted
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Cream sherry
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce (or to taste)
 
  1. Remove top shell from each crawfish and the two calcium deposits
  (hard, stonelike substances above eyes); discard.
  2. Replace shell with Crawfish Stuffing (stuffing can be applied
  easily with pastry bag).
  3. Dip crawfish first in buttermilk, then flour; fry to a golden
  brown.
  4. Cover with Hollandaise sauce and serve.
  *** CRAWFISH STUFFING ***
  1. Melt butter in large saucepan; add flour and stir over heat until
  light brown.
  2. Add onion and garlic; saute.
  3. Remove from heat; add parsley, seasonings, egg, chopped bread and
  crawfish tails and stir until mixed.
  *** HOLLANDAISE SAUCE ***
  1. Combine all ingredients except butter in top of double boiler.
  2. Heat water in bottom of double boiler to boiling point.
  3. With whisk, mix egg mixture over hot water until egg is creamy and
  lemon-colored (will thicken to consistency of soft pudding).
  4. Remove from heat and continue to whisk while slowly adding butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Snapper Sauce
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    3/4 c  Salad oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Worcestershire sauce
      3 tb Butter or margarine,melted
      1 ts Salt
      3 dr Tabasco sauce
 
  Combine all ingredients.
  NOTE: Sauce can be made in advance.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Divan
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 pk Broccoli,frozen(10oz ea)
      1 x  Salt to taste
      1 pn Mixed herbs
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Cheese,shredded
      1 lb Shrimp,medium,shelled
      1 x  Pepper to taste
      1 cn Cream/celery soup(10.5oz)
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Crumbs,buttered
 
  1. Arrange broccoli in greased 7x11-inch baking dish; cover with
  shrimp and sprinkle with salt pepper and herbs.
  2. Combine soup, mayonnaise, lemon juice and cheese and pour over
  shrimp.
  3. Top with buttered crumbs; bake in preheated 350'F. oven 40
  minutes.
  NOTE: Crumbs may be fine dry bread, fine fresh bread, cornflake
  crumbs or packaged stuffing; mix with about 3 tablespoons melted
  butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Shrimp Creole
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 ea Eggs,slightly beaten
      2 c  Shrimp,shelled/deveined
      1 x  Oil
      1 x  Pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Water
      2 c  Cornflake crumbs
      1 x  Salt to taste

MMMMM------------------------SHRIMP SAUCE-----------------------------
      1 c  Chili sauce
    1/4 c  Pickle relish
    1/2 ts Mustard,prepared
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ea Egg,hard-cooked,chopped
    1/2 ts Onion,grated
 
  1. Beat eggs slightly with water.
  2. Dry shrimp on paper towels; dip first into crumbs, then eggs, then
  into crumbs again.
  3. Place shrimp in well-oiled shallow baking pan so they do not touch;
  sprinkle with salt and pepper.
  4. Turn once with a broad spatula so that both sides are oiled.
  5. Bake in preheated 450'F. oven 6 to 8 minutes. Serve with Shrimp
  Sauce or your favorite sauce.
  *** SHRIMP SAUCE ***
  1. Combine all ingredients; chill.
  2. Serve with baked or broiled shrimp.
  NOTE: You may prefer broiled shrimp. Follow the same recipe, but cook
  only 2 minutes on each side under the broiler.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Louisiane Casserole
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Onions,chopped
      1 ea Garlic clove,minced
      1 lb Shrimp,shelled/deveined
      1 cn Cream/mushroom soup(10.75oz)
      1 tb Parsley,chopped
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Green bell pepper,chopped
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 lb Crawfish tails,peeled
      3 c  Rice,cooked
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      2 ea White bread slices
      1 x  Paprika
 
  1. In large saucepan, cook onions, bell pepper and garlic in butter
  until crisp-tender.
  2. Add shrimp; cook 3 minutes longer.
  3. Stir in soup, rice parsley, lemon juice and seasonings. Add bread
  soaked in milk; mix well.
  4. Spoon into buttered shallow 2-quart casserole; sprinkle with
  paprika.
  5. Bake in preheated 350'F. oven 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Sauce Piquante
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 ea Broilerr-fryer chicken,cutup
      1 x  Pepper
      2 qt Water
      1 ea Green bell pepper,lg,chopped
      2 ea Bay leaves
    3/4 c  Flour,all-purpose
      4 ea Garlic cloves,minced
      1 x  Cayenne pepper to taste
    1/2 ea Lemon,sliced/seeded
    1/2 c  White wine,dry
      1 x  Rice,hot cooked
      1 x  Salt
      1 x  Vegetable shortening
      2 c  Celery,minced
      3 ea Green onions,chopped
      1 cn Mushrooms,undrained(8oz)
      2 ea Onions,large,minced
      1 cn Tomato paste(6oz)
     12 ea Green olives,large(opt)
    1/2 c  Parsley,fresh,minced
      1 x  Spaghetti,hot cooked
 
  1. Season chicken liberally with salt and pepper.
  2. Melt 1/4 cup shortening in large Dutch oven and saute chicken until
  brown on all sides.
  3. Add water, celery, bell pepper, green onion, bay leaves, and
  mushrooms sauce; simmer.
  4. In saucepan, melt 3/4 cup shortening; add flour and cook slowly
  until dark brown, stirring constantly.
  5. Add minced onions and garlic; saute until translucent, stirring
  constantly.
  6. Add tomato paste and cook until thick.
  7. Transfer this mixture to Dutch oven and bring to a boil; reduce
  heat and simmer 2 to 2 1/2 hours, or until chicken is tender and
  sauce is thick.
  8. Add water is sauce thickens before chicken is done; stir
  occasionally to keep from sticking.
  9. During last 30 minutes, add salt, cayenne pepper (the more
  cayenne, the more "piquant" the gravy will be), mushrooms, olives,
  lemon and parsley.
  10. Just before serving, add wine.
  11. Serve over spaghetti or hot fluffy rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Medallions of Pork Tenderloins
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Pork tenderloin,well-trimmed
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 ea Eggs
      1 c  Bread crumbs,dry
      2 tb Oilve oil
    1/2 lb Mushrooms,sliced
      2 tb Parsley,minced fresh
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Flour,all-purpose
    1/4 c  Water
      6 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  White wine,dry
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  1. Dry meat with paper towels.
  2. Combine salt, pepper and flour; dredge medallions in flour,
  shaking off excess.
  3. Beat eggs with water; dip medallions in egg and coat with bread
  crumbs.
  4. Press medallions with heel of palm to make crumb stick; dry 10
  minutes.
  5. Heat butter and oil in Dutch oven; saute medallions 8 minutes per
  side.
  6. Remove meat; drain on paper towels, transfer to heated platter and
  keep warm.
  7. Add wine to pan; deglaze over high heat, scraping brown bits from
  bottom and sides of pan.
  8. When liquid is reduced by half (about 3 minutes), add mushrooms
  and cook 2 minutes, stirring.
  9. Add lemon juice and cook 1 minute, stirring.
  10. Correct seasonings, pour sauce over meat and garnish with
  parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlicky Baked Vegetables with Spoon Bread Topping
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter or margarine,melted
      2 ts Flour,all-purpose
    1/4 ts Lemon-pepper seasoning
      2 c  Peas,shelled,fresh
    1/3 c  Onion,thinly sliced
      3 ea Garlic cloves,large,pressed
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Rosemary,crushed
      2 c  Potatoes,peeled,thin sliced
      2 ea Tomatoes,med,peel/thin slice

MMMMM--------------------SPOON BREAD TOPPING-------------------------
      1 ea Garlic clove,fresh,pressed
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1 pn Nutmeg
      2 ea Eggs,separated
  1 1/3 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Yellow cornmeal
    3/4 c  Cheddar cheese,grated sharp
 
  1. Combine butter, garlic, flour, salt, lemon-pepper and rosemary.
  2. In a buttered 7 1/2-cup souffle dish or casserole, layer
  vegetables and seasoned butter; place peas in bottom, then potatoes,
  onion and tomato slices, spooning part of the seasoned butter over
  each layer.
  3. Cover tightly and bake in preheated 350'F. oven 30 minutes.
  4. Meanwhile. prepare Spoon Bread Topping.
  5. Remove baking dish from oven; uncover and pour topping over.
  6. Return to oven and bake 35 minutes longer, or until topping is
  puffed and nicely browned and point of small knife inserted in center
  comes out clean.
  7. Serve at once from baking dish.
  *** SPOON BREAD TOPPING ***
  1. In heavy saucepan, combine garlic, milk, butter, salt and nutmeg;
  gradually stir in cornmeal.
  2. Bring to a full boil, stirring constantly; boil 1 minute; until
  thick, then remove from heat.
  3. Beat egg yolks lightly.
  4. Stir a small amount of hot mixture into yolks, then mix yolks into
  hot cornmeal.
  5. Stir in cheese.
  6. Beat egg whites until barely stiff; fold into cornmeal mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Fish
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 32 servings
 
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 c  Celery,thinly sliced
      1 ea Garlic clove,minced
      1 ea Bay leaf,finely crushed
      1 ts Black pepper
      3 tb Salt
      3 ds Tabasco sauce
    1/2 c  Water,cold
     32 ea Fish fillets,lg,breaded
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Onion,chopped
      1 c  Green bell pepper,thin slice
      1 qt Tomato puree
      1 ts Thyme
      3 tb Sugar
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
     16 lb Fish fillets
     64 ea Fish fillets,sm,breaded
    2/3 c  Butter
 
  1. Heat oil in large Dutch oven; lightly saute onions, celery, bell
  pepper and garlic until soft (do not brown).
  2. Add tomatoes, tomato puree, bay leaf, thyme, pepper, sugar, salt,
  Worcestershire sauce and Tabasco.
  3. Stir well; bring to a boil, reduce heat, cover and simmer at least
  1 hour.
  4. Correct seasoning.
  5. Blend cornstarch into water; stir briskly into sauce and cook until
  translucent and thick.
  6. Prepare fish as desired: Steam or poach fillets; or bake (in sauce
  of lemon juice and melted butter) in preheated 375'F. oven 20 to 30
  minutes; or deep-fry breaded fillets. Serve with warm sauce, allowing
  1/3 to 1/2 cup per serving.
  NOTE: Unbreaded fish fillets may be baked directly in sauce, too.
  Thaw fish if frozen; pat dry and place in well-oiled shallow baking
  dishes. Cover with sauce; bake in preheated 375'F. 25 to 30 minutes,
  or until fish flakes easily.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Catfish Orleans with Creole Sauce
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 24 servings
 
     24 ea Catfish fillets
      1 c  Butter or margarine,melted
  1 1/3 c  Soy sauce
     12 c  Rice,hot,cooked
    1/4 c  Liquid smoke
      1 ts Garlic powder
      2 ts Salt

MMMMM------------------------CREOLE SAUCE-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Salad oil
      1 c  Celery,sliced
      7 c  Tomatoes
      1 ea Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 c  Green bell peppers,cors chop
    1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce
      1 c  Onions,coarsely chopped
    1/2 ts Garlic,minced
      2 c  Tomato puree
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  1. Thaw frozen fish according to package directions.
  2. Prepare Creole Sauce.
  3. Place fillets in shallow baking pans.
  4. Combine liquid smoke, butter, garlic powder, soy sauce and salt;
  brush generously over catfish.
  5. Cover with foil; bake in preheated 400'F. oven about 30 minutes.
  6. To serve, place fillet on 1/2 cup rice; top with 1/4 to 1/3 cup
  Creole Sauce.
  *** CREOLE SAUCE ***
  1. Heat oil in large Dutch oven; add onions, celery and garlic and
  saute about 15 minutes.
  2. Add tomatoes, tomato puree, bay leaf, black pepper, thyme and
  Worcestershire sauce; cover and simmer slowly 1 1/2 hours.
  3. Blanch bell peppers in boiling water 5 minutes; drain well.
  4. Remove bay leaf from sauce; add bell peppers, lemon juice, hot
  pepper sauce and simmer 15 minutes longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deer Jerky Marinade
 Categories: Game, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Deer meat, thinly sliced
    3/4 c  Wine, dry
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Onion, minced
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      2 ts Liquid smoke
      1 ts Seasoned salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      3 ea Bay leaves
 
  Marinade deer meat for 24 hours in the marinade mixture, covered, in
  a cold part of the refrigerator. Turn meat several times. Remove
  meat, spreading out to bring to room temp. Place on greased racks in
  a smoker and smoke at a low heat (160-190 degrees) for 5 to 7 hours,
  until meat becomes slightly translucent and darkly red, near black.
  Store in plastic bags in refrigerator.
  
  Recipe date: 12/10/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deer Sauce II
 Categories: Game, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Marinade, strained
      1 c  Jelly, strained
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ea Ginger, powdered, pinch
      2 tb Whiskey, Scotch/Bourbon
 
  Heat and blend thoroughly in a small sauce pan. Serve in a preheated
  gravy boat for individual use.
  
  Hugg's Note: Muscadine jelly is the very best with deer.
  
  Recipe date: 01/15/63
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deer Marinade III
 Categories: Game, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Lemon, juice of
    1/2 c  Vinegar, wine
    1/4 ts Tarragon
      2 ea Onions, sliced
      1 ts Chili powder
    1/2 c  Water
      2 ts Salt
      2 ea Bay leaves
    1/4 ts Pepper, black
    1/2 c  Tomato catsup
      1 ea Garlic clove, crushed
 
  Mix ingredients in a large bowl. Place meat therein and turn several
  times. Cover. Marinade for from 2 hours to 48 hours, dependent upon
  your assessment of tenderness and flavor. Save marinade for soups,
  gravies, or later use with another meat. Hugg's Note: The use of
  chili powder is questionable (unless you are a Texan, when it becomes
  basic. Recipe date: 01/15/63
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep-Fried Wild Turkey
 Categories: Game, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Wild turkey, whole, dressed
  2 1/2 ga Peanut oil
      1 c  Italian salad dressing
    1/2 c  Lemon juice, fresh
      3 tb Onion juice
      3 tb Garlic juice
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Liquid smoke
  1 1/3 oz Cayenne
    1/4 c  Salt
 
  Mix all ingredients except turkey, pot and peanut oil to make a
  marinade. Let stand overnight in refrigerator. Use meat injecting
  needle to inject all through turkey. Put turkey and marinade in a
  large plastic bag and keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 3 days.
  Remove in time to bring to room temp before cooking. Heat oil in a
  40-60 quart pot to 325 degrees (Use candy thermometer). Immerse
  turkey completely and cook for 4 minutes per pound. Place a pie tin
  with holes in the bottom in the bottom of the deep fryer to prevent
  sticking. This is supposed to be a red-hot favorite. Try one. Recipe
  date: 12/23/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turtle Sauce Piquante
 Categories: Game, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Turtle meat, cut 2" cubes
      3 pt Water, cold
     32 oz Tomatoes, whole, can
      1 ts Garlic, finely chopped
      6 oz Tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Celery, finely chopped
     12 oz Mushrooms + liquid
    1/2 c  Shallots, finely chopped
      4 ea Onions, white, finely chop
    1/3 c  Bell pepper, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Parsley, finely chopped
      3 ea Lemon peel, small slivers
      1 x  Cayenne pepper/generous
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Fry meat in minimum oil til tender to fork. Usually 20 - 35 minutes.
  Remove. Make a roux of 6 Tbsp oil to equal amount flour. When deep
  (not dark) brown, add onion. Cook until transparent but don't burn.
  Add 3 pints cold water and bring to a boil. Add tomatoes, tomato
  sauce, celery, bell pepper, shallots, garlic, mushrooms. Let boil
  about 15 or 16 minutes. Add fried turtle meat, parsley, lemon peel
  and salt & pepper to taste. Let simmer over low fire for at least one
  hour. Serve over hot rice. Also for: Any tough meat, such as large
  alligator, raccoon. Recipe date: 12/12/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Shrimp Dip
 Categories: Game, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Mayonnaise
      1 ts Capers, minced
      1 ts Anchovies, minced
    1/2 ea Lemon, juice of
      1 x  Tabasco, dash
      1 x  Worcestershire sauce, dash
      1 ea Dill pickle, medium, minced
    1/4 c  Parsley, finely chopped
    1/2 tb Horseradish, creamed
      2 tb Mustard, creole
      2 ea Garlic clove, minced
      2 tb Onion, minced
 
  Mix all ingredients and chill. Source: Beach Cab Co's January JET
  BLAST circular. Recipe date: 01/16/88
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sen. Ellender's Basic Sauce
 Categories: Game, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 tb Fat (veg/smoked bacon)
      1 tb Flour, rounded
      2 lb Onions, finely chopped
      3 ea Celery stalk, chop fine
      1 ea Bell pepper, med, chop fine
      1 ea Lemon, grated rind and pulp
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      2 ea Bay leaves
      1 x  Salt to taste
      1 x  Thyme, dash
      1 x  Tabasco, dash
      1 x  Worcestershire, few dashes
      1 x  Season-All, few dashes
 
  To the hot fat add flour, stirring constantly, to make a
  scorchy-tasting roux. Add onions; fry slowly until thoroughly browned
  and reduced to pulp. Add rest of ingredients at one time and continue
  to cook slowly for at least 30-45 min. This recipe constitutes the
  Basic Sauce for gumbos, stews, jambalayas and sauce picuante. If
  thicker sauce is desired, make the roux with 2 to 4 Tbsp flour
  instead of one. THIS SAUCE will be used in Sen. Ellender's shrimp
  creole, jambalaya, chicken sauce picuante, courtbouillon and gumbo.
  Suggestions: Make lots of sauce and freeze individual use portions.
  Source: DIXIE magazine, New Orleans LA Oct 3 1971 Recipe date:
  10/03/71
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinaded grilled softshells
 Categories: Game, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 ea Crabs, softshell
      1 c  Salad oil
      2 tb Vinegar, white
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Tarragon leaves
      1 ts Lemon pepper
    1/8 ts Lemon bits or rind
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
 
  Liberally baste bottom of crabs with marinade. Grill over coals
  slowly, at least 12 inches from coals for 5 minutes. Baste top and
  turn; grill for 5 more minutes. Mix marinade and stand at room temp
  for several hours (1 C) Source:  THE CAPITOL, Annapolis Maryland Jun
  85 Recipe date: 06/15/85
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab-Stuffed Bread Cubes
 Categories: Game, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Loaf french bread, large
    1/2 c  Butter, melted
    1/2 lb Crabmeat
    2/3 c  American cheeze spread
      1 ea Egg, large
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Lemon-pepper seasoning
    1/8 ts Mustard, dry
 
  Cut bread into 1 inch slices; remove crust. Cut trimmed slices into 1
  inch cubes. Hollow out each with sharp knife, leaving 1/8" shell.
  Brush sides and top with melted butter. Place in cookie sheet, bake
  at 400 degrees for 10 minutes or until light brown and crisp. Cool.
  Blend cheeze and egg in bowl. Add remaining ingredients and gently
  mix. Fill nuggets, garnish. Bake on cookie sheet in 400 degree oven
  until bubbly, 5-10 minutes. Suggestions: Sub for bread shells any
  canape form. Source: THE CAPITOL, Annapolis Maryland Jun 85 Recipe
  date: 06/15/85
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster Pie Picayune
 Categories: Game, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Pie crust (dough)
      4 ea Bacon slices, crisp fried
    1/2 c  Shallots, chopped
    1/2 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Parsley, minced
    1/4 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      1 pk Mushroom soup mix
  1 1/2 pt Oysters, unwashed
  6 1/2 oz Crab meat, white, can
      2 oz Mushrooms, button, jar
    1/2 ea Lemon, juice of
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Season All
      1 x  Tabasco, dash
 
  Line a greased baking dish with pie dough, bake until done but not
  brown. Fry 4 slices bacon; save grease. Saute shallots, celery and
  bell pepper in 2 Tbsp bacon grease. Drain oysters and mushrooms and,
  using drained-off liquid (make up to 1 C if necessary with water),
  blend in mushroom soup mix. Heat over med. heat until thickened. Cook
  oysters over medium fire until edges curl. Add oysters and liquid to
  heavy soup mix sauce. Add shallots, celery and bell pepper. Add
  drained mushrooms, parsley minced, Season-All, salt and crumbled
  bacon. Stir and fill pie crust. Place fresh crust on top. Bake @ 350
  til brown. Source: Huitres Vol-au-vent Picaillon from 13 Apr 75
  TIMES-PICAYUNE Recipe date: 04/13/75
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Henderson Boiled Crawfish
 Categories: Game, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     25 lb Crawfish, live
      2 ea Salt, ice cream, boxes
      3 ga Water
      2 c  Red pepper
    1/2 ea Black pepper, stirring spoon
      6 ea Lemons, halved
      6 ea Onions, large, cut in 8ths
      1 x  Potatoes and corn, preboiled
 
  Add pepper and salt to water and bring to a boil. Add crawfish and
  bring to a second boil. Add onions, lemon, potatoes and corn, When
  boil begins, cook 10 minutes, no more. Take crawfish out and do not
  let soak. Source: Times-Picayune/States-Item 15 Mar 84 Pat Huval,
  Mayor of Henderson LA Recipe date: 03/15/84
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 7 Minute Boiled Crawfish
 Categories: Game, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     50 lb Crawfish, live
      2 ea Ice cream salt, boxes
      4 oz Liquid crab boil
      3 ea Cayenne, lge stirring spoons
      6 ea Bay leaves, whole
      6 ea Celery, ribs
      4 ea Onions, medium
      3 ea Lemons or 1 tsp lemon oil
      8 oz Honey
      3 ea Oranges, halved
 
  Fill a 60 qt pot 1/2 full. Add all ingredients except crawfish and
  bring to a boil. Add crawfish. When it boils agains, time for 7
  minutes. Remove from fire, add one bucket cold water. Let it soak for
  one hour. Source: Times-Picayune/States-Item 15 Mar 84 Recipe date:
  03/15/84
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Soaked Boiled Crawfish
 Categories: Game, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     50 lb Crawfish, live
      2 ea Salt, boxes
     12 ea Lemons, halved
     12 ea Onions, med, halved
      1 ea Celery stalk, 2" pieces
      1 ea Bottle liquid crab boil
      4 oz Cayenne pepper, liquid
      6 ea Bags crab boil
      1 ea Tabasco sauce, bottle
      9 ea Garlic clove, halved
 
  Purge in tub with one box salt for 5 minutes. Drain and repeat. Fill
  60 qt pot half-way with water and all ingredients except crawfish.
  Boil vigorously for 5 minutes. Add crawfish and bring to a second
  boil. For small crawfish, turn off fire and let soak for 45 minutes.
  If large, boil 3-5 minutes before removing from fire to soak. Source:
  Times-Picayune/States-Item paper, 15 Mar 84 Dureau's and Radosti's
  Recipe date: 03/15/84
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Flounder with Sauce
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Flounder
      6 tb Butter, melted
      2 tb Onions, browned, chopped
      1 ea Garlic clove, mince/browned
      2 tb Parsley
    1/4 c  Wine, dry white
      1 ea Lemon, juice of
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
      1 x  Flour
 
  Place fish in baking dish or pan. Prepare a sauce by browning garlic,
  onion in melted butter. When brown, add parsley, wine and lemon
  juice. Blend sauce. Pour sauce over fish; sprinkle with salt, pepper,
  flour. Bake covered 10 min. at 375 Degrees. Uncover, basting with
  melted butter and dry white wine. Bake (ten minutes more or until
  done to taste. Also for: Flounder, mackerel, weakfish, grouper,
  snapper, bass etc. Suggestions: Vary the ingredients of the sauce
  with other recipes. Recipe date: 11/28/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Striped Bass
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Striper, six-pound
    1/2 c  Shallots, chopped
    1/2 c  Mushrooms, chopped
      1 ea Lemon
      1 c  Tomatoes, chopped, peeled
      1 ts Chives, chopped
      1 ts Parsley, chopped
      1 tb Butter
      2 c  Wine, dry white
      2 ea Egg yolks
      1 c  Cream sauce
 
  Fillet and skin the bass. Cook it in wine in a hot oven in the juice
  of a lemon and the Tbsp of butter for 15 minutes. Remove the fillets;
  reduce the cooking liquid by boiling, then add the chopped tomatoes
  and cook the works until done. Finally, add 1 C cream sauce, chopped
  parsley, chopped chives, and the yolks of two eggs. Cook, stirring
  until thick and creamy. Pour over the bass fillets and serve. Recipe
  date: 11/29/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poached Cobia Fillet
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ea Cobia fillets, medium
      3 ea Lemons, juice of
      1 ea Bay leaf
    1/2 lb Butter
      1 tb Flour
      2 ea Egg yolks
    1/2 pt Cream
    1/2 c  Wine, dry white
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
 
  The fillets should be about 1/2 inch thick. Marinate them for 1 hour
  in the juice of two lemons and 1 bay leaf. Sprinkle well with salt
  and coarse black pepper. Now roll the fillets, fasten with a
  toothpick to hold the roll, and place them in a deep frying pan.
  Cover with water and poach for 5 minutes. Strain water from fish;
  save. Melt butter, carefully mixing in flour until the hole thing is
  smooth and golden. Add strained fish stock. Boil for 15 minutes and
  strain the sauce. Season to taste with white wine and lemon juice.
  Keep sauce hot and blend in the cream into which has been stirred the
  2 well-beaten egg yolks. Remove toothpicks from fillets & Cover
  w/sauce. Also for: Grouper, red snapper, Amberjack, Dolphin, Pompano
  Recipe date: 11/28/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Planked Red Snapper
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Red snapper fillet
      1 x  Olive oil
      1 x  Lemon juice
      1 x  Paprika
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
      1 ea Plank board per each
      1 x  Vegetables as desired
 
  Season fillets with salt and pepper, lemon juice and a dash of
  paprika. Rub with olive oil and broil slowly for 10 minutes. Remove
  from the broiler, place on a plank and decorate with vegetables
  (onion rings, peas, mushroom caps, asparagus etc.) Place the whole
  board with fish and vegetables beneath the broiler again. Serve
  sizzling hot. Also for: Cobia, trout, King, Spanish mackerel,
  Dolphin, Grouper, Amberjack, mullet. Recipe date: 11/28/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plantation Broiled Cobia
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Fillets cut in small pieces
      1 x  Olive oil
      1 x  Lemon juice
      1 ea Eggplant, 1/4" slices
      1 x  Flour
      1 x  Egg, beaten
      1 x  Bread crumbs
    1/4 lb Butter
 
  Marinate cut pieces of fish for five minutes in lemon juice, salt and
  pepper. Brush them with oil and broil to golden brown. Cut eggplant
  into 1/4" slices. Dip the slices in flour, egg and bread crumbs. Bake
  in a pan with butter then remove, place fish on top of eggplant and
  put on a platter. Garnish with boiled egg and stuffed tomatoes. Also
  for: Any tasty fish. Recipe date: 11/29/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Anglers` Remoulade Sauce
 Categories: Game, Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Mayonnaise
      1 pt Mustard
      1 oz Anchovy paste
    1/2 oz Lemon juice
      1 oz Onion, grated
      1 oz Wine, sherry
    1/4 oz Tabasco sauce
    1/2 oz Worcestershire sauce
 
  Blend all the ingredients in an electric blender or hand-whip them
  into a smooth mixture. Makes a tart and tsaty sauce for poached fish,
  oysters, shrimp, crab meat, scallops or lobster. Recipe date: 11/29/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Speckled Trout
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 ea Speckled trout, cleaned
      1 x  Water, boiling
      1 x  Onion tops
      1 x  Thyme
      1 x  Bay leaf
     10 ea Cloves
     24 ea Allspice, mashed fine
      1 ea Lemon peel, small piece
      1 ea Red pepper pod
 
  Clean and wash fish thoroughly, score with an "S" on back, wrap twine
  around the body of the fish to secure it, but never tie in a cloth.
  To the boiling water add onion tops, thyme, bay leaf, cloves,
  allspice, lemon peel and red pepper. Let boil thoroughly for about 10
  minutes, then slip fish in carefully so as to avoid breaking
  (verbatim in old recipe). Let cook another 10 minutes and remove from
  water. Drain, lay on a platter, sprinkle thickly with minced parsley
  and serve with drawn butter sauce. Source: FISHES and FISHING IN
  LOUISIANA p54 Recipe date: 11/30/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Croaker Croquettes One
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Fish, flaked, cooked
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Onion, finely minced
      1 tb Pimiento, finely minced
      1 tb Green pepper, finely minced
      1 c  Thick white sauce
      1 x  Seasoning to taste
 
  Mix mixture thoroughly. Shape into balls or patties dip in egg
  prepared as for fillets, then in crumbs, and fry in deep fat at 365
  degrees F. Serve with tomato sauce. Generalized recipe made specific
  for Croakers Source: FISHES AND FISHING IN LOUISIANA published 1933
  Recipe date: 01/17/33
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Redfish Courtbouillon
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Redfish
      1 ea Onion, large, minced
      1 tb Lard
      6 ea Tomatoes, large, chopped
      2 tb Flour
      4 c  Water
      6 oz Claret
      1 ea Lemon, juice of
      1 x  Thyme, finely minced
      1 x  Parsely, finely minced
      1 x  Bay leaf
      1 ea Garlic clove, finely minced
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Put lard in a deep kettle. Stir in flour, don't burn. Add green
  seasonings. Put in tomatoes, water, pepper and salt. Cook about 50
  minutes. Add Redfish, slice by slice, and the juice of a lemon.
  Simmer gently until fish is tender. Serve with mashed potatoes.
  Source: FISHES AND FISHING IN LOUISIANA published 1933 Recipe date:
  01/17/33
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Spanish Mackerel
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Spanish mackerel, 3 lb
      1 ea Lemon, sliced
      1 tb Salad oil
      1 x  Parsley garnish
      1 tb Butter
      1 ea Sauce a la Maitre D'Hotel
      1 ea Lemon, juice of
 
  Before broiling rub thoroughly with salt, brush with pepper and work
  in a little olive oil. Lay on broiler and brown well on both sides,
  being careful not to break it. Apply sauce and serve. If fish is
  large, split down middle of back before broiling. Source: FISHES AND
  FISHING IN LOUISIANA published 1933 Recipe date: 01/17/33
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bluefish rolls
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Bluefish fillet 12" long
      1 c  Wine, white
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Lemon pepper
      1 ts Oregano
    1/2 c  Parsley, chopped
    1/2 c  Almonds, crushed
     12 ea Cherry tomatoes
      3 c  Noodles, cooked
    1/4 c  Parsley, finely chopped
    1/4 c  Romano cheeze
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 x  Lemon pepper, pinch
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees. Soak fish strips in wine for 5-10
  minutes in fridge. Mix in small bowl spices, parsley and almonds. Dip
  fish in mixture, then roll each strip around cherry tomato. Place
  rolls on lightly oiled baking dish. Bake for 10-14 minutes. Prepare
  noodles while fish is baking. Drain and add parsley, cheeze, oil and
  pepper. Place fish rolls on noodles and serve. Also for: Try white
  trout, amberjack, spanish mackerel Source: THE CAPITOL, Annapolis
  Maryland Jun 85 Recipe date: 06/15/85
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Catfish and Pecans
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Catfish fillets
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Red pepper
      1 ts Lemon rind, grated
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Pecans, chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
 
  Make pecan sauce by combining 1/4 C butter, chopped pecans, lemon
  juice and Worcestershire sauce and blend well. Combine flour, salt,
  pepper, lemon rind. Roll fillets in mixture, coating well. Melt 1/4 C
  butter in large skillet. Brown fillets over medium heat until light
  brown; turn once to brown both sides. Place fillets in well-greased
  12X8X2 baking dish. Sprinkle pecan butter sauce over fillets.
  Sprinkle with additional chopped pecans if desires. Bake uncovered at
  350 degrees for 12 minutes or until fish flakes easily when tested
  with a fork. Source: From Crowley, LA by Amelia Breaux THE CAPITOL,
  Annapolis Maryland Jun 85 Recipe date: 06/15/85
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cold Redfish Mold
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Redfish
      1 ea Onion, sliced
    1/2 ea Bell pepper, minced
      2 ea Celery stalks, minced
      1 ts Green onion tops, minced
      1 ts Parsley, minced
    1/2 ea Lemon, juice of
    1/2 ts Mustard
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  Boil redfish in just enough water to cover, to which has been added
  onions, salt and pepper, boiling about 15 minutes. Remove bones and
  skin. Add bell pepper, celery, green onions and parsley. Season with
  lemon juice, mustard and Worcestershire sauce. Add most of the fish
  stock and place in mold in the refrigerater to congeal. Serve with
  mayonnaise and crackers. Also for: Any edible fish.  Best use of bony
  types (Sheepshead etc) Source: Louisiana Conservationist Recipe date:
  12/06/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: West Coast Garlic Salmon
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 ea Salmon steaks, large
      3 tb Butter, melted
      3 tb Peanut or olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Garlic, minced, fresh
      1 ts Tarragon, minced, fresh
    1/4 ts Lemon peel, grated
    1/8 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
      1 x  Lemon wedges
 
  Combine butter, oil, lemon juice, tarragon, lemon peel and pepper
  flakes to make a marinade. Place fish steaks on broiler and brush
  with half the marinade. Broil under pre-heated broiler, 2 inches from
  heat, for 4 minutes. Turn the steaks, brush with remaining marinade,
  and broil until fish flakes to fork (about 4 more minutes). Salt and
  pepper to taste and serve immediately with lemon wedges. Also for:
  Use cobia, king mackerel, grouper or other large fish steaks Source:
  FIELD & STREAM May 85 Recipe date: 05/15/85
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Fried Catfish
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Catfish, fillets
    1/2 ea Lemon
    3/4 c  Corn meal
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 x  Oil for frying
 
  Rub fillets with cut lemon, both sides. Roll in mixture of corn meal
  and seasonings. Pour 1/8 inch oil in large skillet and place over
  medium heat. Fry fillets until brown and crisp on both sides, about 8
  minutes overall. Suggestions: Spice up with tabasco sauce sprinkled
  on with the lemon. Recipe date: 12/11/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sloppy Louie's Catfish Saute
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Blended frying oil/inc olive
      1 lb Catfish, fillets
      1 x  Flour
      1 ea Egg, beaten
      6 tb Butter, melted
      3 tb Wine, sherry, dry
    1/2 ea Lemon, juice of
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
      1 x  Lemon slices
      1 x  Paprika
 
  Yankee-style catfish prepared by Sloppy Louie's in New York, close to
  Fulton Fish Market. Heat 1/8 in.oil in skillet until very hot.
  Lightly dust catfish fillets with flour, then dip in egg. Fry fish
  about 1 minute on each side, just until pale gold. Pour off oil. Add
  butter and remaining ingredients except garnish. Saute fish three
  more minutes per side, basting with pan juices. Transfer fish to
  heated platter and garnish. Suggestions: Sloppy Louie's puts parsley
  on 1/2 lemon slice, paprika alt. Recipe date: 12/11/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream Baked Catfish
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 ea Dressed catfish
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
  1 1/2 tb Flour
      1 pt Sour cream
      3 tb Olives, stuffed, chopped
      1 ts Celery salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Thyme
      1 tb Dillweed, fresh
      1 x  Lemon wedges
      1 x  Parsley
 
  A Finalist in the 5th National Farm-Raised Catfish Cooking Contest
  Place cleaned, washed, dried fish in a greased baking dish. Combine
  mayonnaise and flour; add sour cream, olives, celery salt, paprika,
  pepper and thyme. Spread sauce over fish. Sprinkle with dillweed.
  Bake in 350 degree oven about 25 minutes, or until fish flakes when
  touched with a fork. Apply garnish. Also for: Catfish, Any Fish .....
  Recipe date: 12/11/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Catfish Creole
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Catfish fillets
    1/3 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Water
      1 c  Celery, sliced
    1/2 c  Shallots, chopped
    1/2 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      2 ea Garlic clove, crushed
      1 lb Tomatoes, cut small, can
      8 oz Tomato sauce
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      2 ea Bay leaves
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 tb Brown sugar, lemon juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Parsley, chopped
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 ea Tabasco, dashes
      1 x  Rice, hot, cooked
 
  Cut fillets into 1-in pieces. Heat oil in large pan. Add flour,
  stirring until brown. Remove from heat and add water slowly, stirring
  til blended. Add all ingredients except catfish and rice. Cover and
  simmer for 20 minutes or until vegetables are tender. Remove bay
  leaves, add catfish and simmer 8 - 10 min. more until fish flakes to
  the fork. Serve over rice in soup bowls. Possibly better to wilt all
  fresh vegetables before adding to pan. Also for: Catfish, Any Fish
  Recipe date: 12/11/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poisson Au Champagne
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 ea Fillets, 8 oz each
      1 ea Onion, large, thinly sliced
      1 ea Lemon, large, sliced thin
    1/8 ts Thyme
    1/2 ea Bay leaf
      4 tb Butter
      2 ts Flour
      2 ts Butter
      2 c  Champagne, extra dry or brut
      4 ea Egg yolks
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Mix together the 2 tsp flour and 2 tsp butter; reserve. Butter
  generously a baking dish large enough to hold fish. Arrange fillets,
  covering with onion and lemon slices, season with salt and pepper,
  thyme and add bay leaf piece. Pour in 1-1/2 C Champagne. Place fish
  in preheated 400 degree oven, checking after 10 minutes. Fish cooks
  very quickly this way and cannot be allowed to brown. Remove when
  milky white and flakes to fork. Discard lemon and onion but drain
  juice into small sauce pan. Keep fish warm. Concentrate juice over
  stove, thicken with dabs of flour-butter mix. Add 1/2 C champagne and
  egg yolks. Thicken beating over double boiler or over low fire. Cool
  sauce quickly when done. Spread over fish and serve. Recipe date:
  12/11/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Sauce for Fish
 Categories: Game, Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ea Lemon, large, juice of
    1/4 c  Butter, scant
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 ea Egg yolks, beaten
 
  Strain lemon juice into saucepan, then add other ingredients. Beat
  over fire until hot but do not let boil. When fully hot, remove from
  fire, mix with the beaten yolks of two eggs and serve at once. Good
  for fine flavored fishes such as Kingfish Source: FISHES AND FISHING
  IN LOUISIANA, Pub. 1933 Recipe date: 01/17/33
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sour Cream Stuffing for Fish
 Categories: Game, Fish, Side dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
    1/4 c  Butter/margarine, melted
      4 c  Bread crumbs, dried
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Lemon, diced, peeled
      2 tb Lemon rind, grated
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Salt
 
  Cook celery and onion in butter til tender. Combine all ingredients
  and mix thoroughly. Makes approximately 1 quart stuffing for fish.
  Source: South Central Bell Notes Recipe date: 12/13/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Sauce for Shark
 Categories: Game, Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Pineapple, crushed, drained
      2 tb Lemon, peeled & diced
      2 tb Green pepper, finely chop
      1 tb Onion, chopped
      1 tb Sugar, light brown
  1 1/2 ts Lemon rind, grated
    1/4 ts Mustard, dry
    1/4 ts Celery salt
    1/8 ts Cloves, ground
 
  Combine all ingredients. Chill in refrigerator for 2 hours before
  serving. Makes 1 cup relish. Great with Buttermilk Fried Shark.
  Source: LOUISIANA CONSERVATIONIST Sept/Oct 81 Recipe date: 08/21/81
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Catfish in Beer
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      5 ea Garlic clove, chopped
      3 ea Green onions, chopped
      2 ea Catfish fillets, large
    1/3 c  Flour
      4 ea Mushrooms, large, sliced
      3 oz Beer, light
    1/2 ea Lemon
      1 x  Worcestershire sauce
      1 x  Rice, white
 
  Brown finely-chopped garlic and onion in butter, sizzling hot. Lightly
  flour catfish, add to pan with mushrooms. Pour in beer and treat
  fillets with juice of of half a lemon. Add a couple of drops of
  Worcestershire. Saute over medium heat, turning, until brown on both
  sides. Serve on hot plates with rice. Use pan-gravy over the rice.
  Source: Gulfport Sun-Herald, 13 January 1988 Recipe date: 01/13/88
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Drum Creole
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Black drum, cleaned
      1 c  Onion, chopped
      1 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      1 c  Parsley, chopped
      4 ea Garlic clove, chopped
      4 ea Bay leaves
      6 oz Tomato paste
     16 oz Tomatoes, whole, can
      2 c  Water
      2 ea Lemons
    1/2 ts Basil
      1 x  Tabasco sauce, dash
    1/2 c  Cooking oil
      7 tb Flour
      1 x  Salt & red pepper to taste
 
  Clean fish well,scoring on both sides at one inch intervals. Season
  fish well using salt and pepper. Squeeze lemon juice all over fish.
  Place in a heavy casserole dish and set aside. In a heavy black iron
  pot, heat oil over medium heat. Add flour and make a roux. Add
  seasonings, saute until done. Add tomato paste, tomatoes and water,
  blending well. Cook over medium heat for 10 minutes. Add rest of
  seasonings and season to taste. Cook approximately 20 minutes. Pour
  resulting gravy over fish. Cook uncovered in 350 oven for approx. 1
  hour. Add water as necessary to retain volume. Also for: Sheepshead,
  Bull Croaker or other scaled fish. Source: Louisiana Conservationist
  Mar/Apr 88 Recipe date: 04/25/88
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Swordfish Mirabeau
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 ea Swordfish steaks, 1-1/4"
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Anchovy paste
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 ea Lemon
      4 ea Anchovy fillets
 
  Roll the steaks in olive oil and broil seven minutes on each side.
  Season with salt and freshly-ground pepper while the fish is cooking.
  Mix butter and anchovy paste and spread on the hot steaks as they
  come from the broiler. Serve with a slice of lemon which has an
  anchovy fillet and an olive toothpicked into. Also for: Any thick,
  firm-fleshed fish such as King, cobia, grouper. Suggestions: SUBST
  paste made from smoked mullet or smoked mackerel. Recipe date:
  11/29/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fillets of Bluefish Gen Patton
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 ea Bluefish fillets
      1 pt Wine, dry chablis
      1 c  Shallots, finely chopped
    1/2 c  Parsley, finely chopped
    1/2 pt Heavy cream
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ea Egg yolks, beaten
      1 x  Salt and white pepper
 
  Place fillets in a buttered baking dish, sprinkle with shallots and
  parsley. Pour on the wine, dust with salt and pepper and bring to a
  boil. Cover the dish with oiled, waxed paper (or foil) and place in
  preheated 350 degree oven. Cook for 15 minutes. Now drain the juice
  from the baking dish into a saucepan, add the cream, the lemon juice,
  the beaten egg yolks and continue to stir this over the flame until
  it has reduced to thick consistency. Pour this over the fillets,
  which you have kept hot in a baking dish, and serve very hot. Also
  for: Any tasty fish. Recipe date: 11/29/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Snapper Courtbouillon
 Categories: Game, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6 lb Red snapper, fillet/whole
     24 ea Oysters
      6 ea Celery stalks, chopped
      1 ea Shallots, bunch, chopped
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      2 ea Bell peppers, med, chop
      1 ea Onion, large white, chop
      1 ea Garlic head, chopped
      2 ea Lemons, chopped
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Margarine
      4 oz Mushrooms, can
      8 oz Tomatoes, peeled, can
      5 ea Bay leaves
      4 c  Water
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
 
  Put enough shortening in a large pot to cover the bottom. Get hot
  then add celery, shallots, onions, bell peppers, onions, parsley and
  lemons. Cook slowly covered until soft and onions transparent. Remove
  from pot and set aside. Heat margarine in pot; add flour slowly,
  stirring to brown the roux. Now add the cooked vegetable mix. Cook
  low for 30 min, stirring occasionally. Add mushrooms, tomatoes, tap
  water, bay leaves and Worcestershire. Cook on low for 1-1/2 hours,
  stirring occasionally. Add fish fillets, whole or pieces, and cook
  for another hour over low. Add oysters 20 minutes before serving over
  hot rice. Also for: Any fish; you name it. Source: By HEK, Jul 29
  1975, New Orleans Times-Picayune Recipe date: 07/29/75
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Cocktail Meatballs
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Chuck, ground
      2 ea Eggs
    1/3 c  Catsup
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Pepper
     12 oz Chili sauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Corn flakes, crumbs
    1/3 c  Parsley, fresh, minced
      2 tb Onion, green and minced
      1 ea Garlic clove, pressed
     16 oz Cranberry sauce, whole ber
      1 tb Brown sugar
 
  Combine first 9 ingredients ina large bowl; stir well.  Shape meat
  mixture into 1-inch balls. Place in an ungreased 15x10x1 jellyroll
  pan. Bake uncovred at 500F for 8 - 10 minutes. Drain meatballs and
  transfer to a chafing dish, and keep warm.  Combine cranberry sauce
  with remaining ingredients in a sauce pan.  Cook over medium heat
  until bubbly, stirring occasionally; pour over meatballs.  Serve warm.
   Yield: 5 dozen
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TWO PEAS WITH TURMERIC AND MINT
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Snap peas
      2 ts Margarine
      1 ea Cl Garlic, peeled and minced
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/3 lb Snow peas
      1 ts Olive oil
    1/4 ts Tumeric
      1 tb Mint, fresh, finely chopped
      1 x  Black pepper to taste
 
      Bring a medium pan of water to the boil. Snap the ends off the
  snap and snow peas. Add the snap peas to the boiling water and time
  30 seconds; add the snow peas and time 1 minute. Drain and rinse with
  cold water to stop the cooking completely. Pat dry with paper towels.
      In a medium skillet heat the margarine and olive oil over medium
  heat. Add the garlic and saute 1 minute. Add the tumeric and lemon
  juice; swirl to incorporate.
      Add the peas, mint, salt and pepper. Stir for about 2 minutes to
  heat the peas through. Serve immedietely.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ARTICHOKE SAUTE
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 ea Artichokes
      1 ea Sm Onion, sliced
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Tarragon, dried, crushed
    1/4 c  Water
      1 c  Mushrooms, sliced
      1 x  Lemon juice
      1 ea Cl Garlic, minced
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 c  White wine, dry
      1 x  Salt and pepper to taste
      1 ea Tomato, seeded and chopped
 
      Bend back outer pedals of artichokes until they snap off easily
  near base. Edible portion of pedals should remain on artichoke
  hearts. Continue to snap off and discard pedals until central core of
  pale green pedals is reached.
      Cut off stems and top 2 inches of artichokes; discard. trim outer
  dark green layer from artichoke bottoms. Cut artichokes in half
  lengthwise.
      Cut out center pedals and fuzzy centers.
      Cut each half in fourths lengthwise. Dip or rub all surfaces with
  lemon juice.
      Saute onion and garlic in olive oil; stir in prepared artichokes,
  sugar, and terragon. Add wine and water and cook until  artichokes are
  tender; salt and pepper to taste. Stir in mushrooms and cook until
  mushrooms are tender. Stir in tomato; cook until tomato is thoroughly
  heated. Upl by Dr. Jim Culveyhouse 73330,2525
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BEEF BROCHETTES W/RED PEPPERS & CORIANDER
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Beef, lean such as filet or
      2 ea Med Red peppers
      2 tb Coriander seeds
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
      4 ea Thyme, fresh or 1 tsp dried
      2 tb Honey
      4 tb Coriander, fresh coarsley ch
      2 ea Red onions, about 1/2 lb
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Garlic, chopped
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 c  Red wine, dry
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 x  Salt and pepper to taste
 
      Preheat a charcoal grill to high or an oven broiler to 500
  degrees. If wooden skewers are used, soak them in cold water until
  ready to use.
      Cut the beef into 1 inch cubes. There should be 24 cubes.
      Peel and cut the onions into 24  1 inch cubes. Reserve the
  remaining onion for another use. Set the cubes aside until ready to
  cook.
      Cut away and discard the pepper cores and seeds. Cut the peppers
  into 24 equal-size pieces and set aside until ready to cook.
      Combine the meat and remaining ingredients in a mixing bowl.
  Blend well and marinate for 15 minutes.
      Drain the meat and arrange equal portions of meat, onions and
  peppers on skewers. Reserve the marinade for basting.
      If the brochettes are to be cooked under the broiler, arrange
  them on a rack about 4 inches from the source of heat, leaving the
  door slightly ajar. Cook for about four minutes for rare, basting
  with reserved marinade and turning often. If the brochettes are to be
  cooked on a grill, place them on the grill and cook for 4 minutes for
  rare, basting often with the reserved marinade while turning UPL by
  Dr. Jim Culveyhouse 73330,2525
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clams Casino No. 1
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     24 ea Cherrystone clams
      4 tb Green pepper, chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ea Lg Garlic clove, minced
      8 tb Butter
      6 tb Seasoned bread crumbs
 
  Preheat oven to 450f.  Open clams and discard top shell.  Place clams
  in a shallow baking pan. In a saucepan, melt 4 Tbsp. butter and saute
  the garlic and green pepper for 2 - 3 minutes. Add remaining butter,
  lemon juice, and bread crumbs, mixing thoroughly. Place 1 teas. of
  mixture on top of each clam and bake for 10 minutes. Shellfish
  Recipes of the Shore
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CARIBBEAN VEGETARIAN CURRY
 Categories: Fruit, Main dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 ea Med Bananas, green tip, peel
      1 ea Onion, halved, thinly sliced
      1 ea Apple, tart, peeled, cored,
  1 1/2 ts Lemon peel, grated
      1 ts Coriander
    1/8 ts Red pepper, ground
      1 cn Kidney beans, undrained, (15
      1 c  Yogurt, nonfat
      3 c  Hot cooked rice
      3 ea Green onions, thinly sliced
    1/4 c  Peanuts, chopped
      3 ts Margarine, divided
      2 ea Lg Garlic, cloves, pressed
  1 1/2 ts Curry powder
      1 ts Ginger, ground
    1/8 ts Tumeric
      1 cn Black-eyed peas, drained  (1
    1/3 c  Raisins
      3 ea Hard-cooked eggs, halved, wa
      6 ea Radishes, thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Cilantro, chopped
 
  Calories     per serving: 406 Fat grams per serving: 8.8 Approx. Cook
  Time: Cholesterol  per serving: 138
      Cut bananas in half crosswise, then lengthwise to make 12 pieces.
  Saute in non-stick skillet with 2 tsp margarine until lightly
  browned. Remove to plate.
      Add 1 tsp margarine to skillet. Saute onion, garlic, and apple
  until soft.
      Combine curry powder, lemon peel, ginger, coriander, tumeric and
  red pepper. Stir into onion mixture.
      Add black-eyed peas, undrained kidney beans and raisins. Cover;
  simmer 5 minutes. Remove from heat, stir in yogurt.
      Place egg halves on rice. Surround with sauteed bananas. Spoon
  curry over. Top with radishes, green onion, cilantro and peanuts.
      Serves 6 UPL by Dr. Jim Culveyhouse 73330,2525 9-91
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fannie Daddies
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 ea Eggs, separated
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 qt Clams, shucked & well draine
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Flour
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 x  Oil for frying
 
  In a large bowl, beat egg yolks until thick.  Beat in milk, 2 T.
  flour, salt, and lemon juice.  In a separate bowl, beat the egg
  whites until stiff.  Fold into the batter.  Add clams.  Chill the
  mixture for 2 - 4 hours.  In a heavy saucepan, pour in enough oil to
  measure 2 - 3 inches deep.  Heat to 375f.  Add the clams, several at
  a time, and fry until puffed and golden, about 3 minutes.  Remove
  with a slotted spoon and drain well on paper towels. Serve with
  tartar sauce and thick slices of French bread. New England Sampler,
  Jan Siegrist
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ZOODLES WITH SCALLOPS
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Zucchini, medium-size
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1 ea Cl Garlic, minced
      3 ea Plum tomatoes, coarsley chop
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 lb Sea scallops, quartered
      2 tb Vegetable oil, divided
      1 ea Med Onion, thinly sliced
      3 tb Soy sauce, lite
      1 ts Oregano, crumbled
 
      Cut zucchini lengthwise, into long strips, 1/8-inch thick and
  1/8-inch wide; set aside. Coat scallops with cornstarch. Heat 1
  Tablespoon oil in hot large skillet over high heat. Add scallops and
  garlic and saute 2 minutes; remove. Heat remaining 1 Tablespoon oil
  in same pan. Add onions; saute 2 minutes. Reduce heat to medium. Add
  zuchinni, tomatoes, lite soy sauce, lemon juice and oregano, stirring
  to combine. Cover and cook 4 minutes; stirring occasionally. Return
  scallops to pan; cover and cook 30 seconds more. UPL by Dr. Jim
  Culveyhouse 73330,2525
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: COFFEE LIQUEUR ZESTY SEAFOOD MARINADE/SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Coffee liqueur
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Onion, finely chopped
      6 ds Hot pepper sauce
    1/2 ts Honey
    1/8 ts Ginger root, grated
    1/4 c  Lime juice
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts White pepper
 
      Shake all ingredients together well in covered jar. Let stand 1
  hour or longer to blend flavors. Shake well before using. Pour over
  fish and marinate 30 minutes. Grill fish, basting often..
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polpette (Meatballs)
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      2 ts Parsley
      1 ea Slice white bread
    1/8 ts Grated nutmeg
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ea Small lemon
      2 ea Garlic cloves
      1 ea Egg
      1 x  Salt and pepper
 
  These polpette are glorified meatballs that have that typically
  Italian flavor given by a mixture of lemon peel, garlic, and parsley
  that is known as gremolada.  This is a recipe from Lombardy.
  
  Mince finely together the zest of 1 small lemon, 2 teaspoons parsley,
  and 2 cloves of garlic.  Add to this the ground beef, together with
  the salt, pepper and nutmeg.  Stir in the crumbled white bread that
  has been soaked in milk and squeezed dry.  Finally, stir in 1 beaten
  egg. On a floured board, form the mixture lightly into small
  flattened cakes about 1/2 inch thick and 1 1/2 inches wide.  Do not
  work the mixture or press it too much. Brown the cakes in 1/4 cup hot
  olive oil for about 2 minutes on each side. Drain them and serve at
  once.
  
                                      1958 CHAMBERLAIN, Samuel
                                           Italian Bouquet
                                           Gourmet Distributing
  Corporation
                                           New York.
  :       RECIPE CLIPPED by Michael Prothro
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ARTICHOKES AND PEAS
 Categories: Vegetarian, Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Artichokes
      1    Lemon (juice only)
      2 tb Virgin olive oil
        lg Basil leaves;
           - sliced in strips
      1 lg Onion, white or yellow
           - sliced 1/4-in thick
           Salt
      1 lb Fresh pod peas; -=OR=-
      1 c  Frozen peas
           Finely chopped parsley
           Freshly milled pepper
      1 tb Sweet butter
           -=OR=-Extra-Virgin Olive Oil
           Lemon juice; to taste
           -=OR=- Champagne Vinegar
 
  SLICE THE UPPER 2/3 of the leaves off the artichokes, then break off
  the remaining leaves, snapping them off at the base. Trim off the
  dark green stubs, going around the artichoke with a paring knife. Cut
  them in quarters, remove the fuzzy choke and slice each quarter into
  pieces 1/4-to-1/2-inch thick. As you work, rub the cut surfaces with
  lemon and put them in a bowl with the lemon juice and water to cover.
  Gently warm the olive oil with half the basil. When it is fairly hot,
  but not sizzling, add the onions and the sliced artichokes. Salt
  lightly and give them a stir to coat them with the oil, then add 3/4
  cup water and cook over a medium-low flame. As the water cooks off,
  add more, in 1/2-cup increments until the artichokes are cooked,
  about 25 minutes. Add the peas and continue cooking until they are
  done. Let any liquids reduce until they are syrupy. Taste and season
  with salt. Add the rest of the basil, the parsley and the butter or
  olive oil. To brighten the flavors, stir in a little lemon juice or
  champagne vinegar to taste.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPINACH, CHEESE AND TOMATO LASAGNA
 Categories: Vegetarian, Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------EGG PASTA------------------------------
      2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      2 pn Salt
      2 lg Eggs
      2 ts Olive oil

MMMMM--------------------------LASAGNE-------------------------------
      8 oz Mozzarella cheese, fresh
  2 1/2 lb Tomatoes, fresh or canned
           -peeled, seeded, chopped
      3 tb Virgin olive oil
      1 sm Onion, finely diced
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
  1 1/2 ts Fresh marjoram or oregano
           -=OR=-
    1/2 ts -Dried marjoram or oregano
    1/2 c  Red wine
           Sugar; if needed
           Red wine vinegar

MMMMM-------------------SPINACH-CHEESE FILLING------------------------
      3 sm Bunches spinach
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Onion; finely diced
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
           Salt, pepper and nutmeg
      2 c  Ricotta
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Parmesan, freshly grated
      3 tb Parsley; chopped
      1 ts Lemon peel, minced or grated

MMMMM--------------------------BECHAMEL-------------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
 
  EGG PASTA: Combine the flour and the salt in a bowl, make a well in
  the middle, add the egg and the olive oil. Using your fingers,
  lightly and gradually work the egg into the flour so that it is
  completely distributed throughout. When it is well combined, press
  the mixture together to form a dough. Turn it out onto a counter and
  begin to work it together. If it is too dry, add drops of water, a
  few at a time, to moisten the dough and help it come together. Knead
  the dough for about 10 minutes, until it feels smooth and supple. Put
  it in a plastic bag or wrap it in plastic, and set it aside to rest
  at least half an hour, preferably an hour before rolling it out.
  
  LASAGNE: Prepare the pasta dough and set it aside to rest. Grate or
  slice the cheese; then prepare the tomato sauce and spinach-cheese
  filling. Heat the oil in a wide skillet, add the onion, garlic and
  marjoram or oregano and saute until the onion is transparent and
  soft. Season with salt; then add the tomatoes and wine. Cook slowly
  until the sauce is thickened. If the tomatoes are overly tart,
  correct the acidity by adding a pinch or two of sugar. Once they are
  cooked, pass them through a food mill; then season to taste with a
  few drops of vinegar, freshly ground black pepper and more salt if
  needed.
  
  SPINACH-CHEESE FILLING: Remove the stems from the spinach; discard any
  bruised or yellow leaves. Wash the spinach well in 2 changes of water.
  Roughly chop the leaves into small pieces about an inch square. In a
  wide pan, heat the oil and saute the onion for several minutes; then
  add half the garlic, the spinach leaves and a sprinkling of salt.
  Cook until the spinach is wilted; then remove it to a bowl and
  combine it with the ricotta, eggs, Parmesan, the remaining garlic and
  the parsley and lemon peel. Season to taste with salt, freshly ground
  pepper and a scraping or two of nutmeg.
  
  BECHAMEL: Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and cook over
  low flame for 2-to-3 minutes, stirring continuously. Scald the milk
  in a separate pan, then pour it into the flour-butter mixture,
  whisking as you do so. Season with salt, pepper and a scraping of
  nutmeg and continue to cook the sauce for 15 minutes over low heat,
  giving an occasional stir. Roll the dough thin, and cut the final
  strips into pieces that will fit your baking pan. Bring a pot of
  water to a boil and add salt. Have ready a large bowl of cold water.
  Cook several pieces of dough at a time. Remove them when they rise to
  the surface, and put them in the cold water to cool; spread on a
  kitchen towel. Preheat the oven to 350F. Butter a 9-by-13-inch baking
  dish and spread half the bechamel over the bottom. Piece together
  several strips of the pasta so that they cover the bottom and hang
  over the edges of the baking dish. (Later they will be folded over
  the top, effectively sealing in the fillings.) Spread 1/2 the tomato
  sauce over this first layer of pasta and cover with 1/2 the
  mozzarella. Put down another layer of pasta and cover this with 1/2
  the spinach-cheese filling. Continue with more pasta, tomato and
  mozzarella, pasta and spinach-cheese filling. Finish by laying 1-or-2
  strips of pasta down the center and folding the overhanging edges
  over the top. Cover with the remaining bechamel sauce. Cover the
  lasagna with foil and bake for 20 minutes. Remove the foil and
  continue baking for another 15 minutes, or until the top is puffed
  and browned. Let the lasagne rest for a few minutes; then cut it into
  pieces and serve.
  
  NOTE: Lasagne can also be made by using commercial fresh pasta sheets,
  which will be thicker than those you make at home. These commercial
  pasta sheets often come in pieces about 9-by-13-inches, each weighing
  about 4 ounces; 1 1/2 pound should be more than enough. Use 4-or-5
  sheets and do not try to overlap the bottom layer as in the basic
  recipe. Though fresh pasta makers often say the lasagne sheets need
  not be precooked, the lasagna will be moister and lighter if they are.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CURRIED SHELLFISH POT PIE
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      1 c  Clam broth
    3/4 c  Dry sherry
      1 c  Light cream or milk
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Freshly grated ginger
      3 lg Garlic cloves
           - peeled and crushed
      2 tb Curry powder (hot or mild)
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped flat-leaf parsley
    1/2    Meat from a 1 1/4 lb lobster
           - steamed or boiled
           - 5 minutes to loosen,
           - then removed and chopped
  1 1/2 lb Large shrimp
           - peeled and deveined
    3/4 lb Young carrots; scraped,
           - trimmed, cut into
           - 2-in lengths, blanched
           - for 2 minutes
      4 oz Shiitake mushrooms
           - stems removed
           - and cut into thick slices
      1 c  Slivered almonds; toasted
     10 oz Frozen "petite" peas
           - defrosted
     16 oz Frozen pearl onions
           - defrosted
      1 lb All-butter puff pastry
           - defrosted in the
           - refrigerator if frozen
      1    Egg; mixed with
      1 tb -Water, for egg wash
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 425F. Invert a 3-quart oval or rectangular casserole,
  preferably earthenware or porcelain, onto a piece of parchment or
  waxed paper. Trace the shape, adding a 1-inch border all around, then
  cut it out. In a large heavy skillet, heat the butter over medium
  high heat until it foams. Whisk in the flour, adjust the heat to
  medium low, and continue cooking until the flour is light-cream
  colored, about 2 minutes. Stir in the clam broth, sherry, cream and
  lemon juice. Adjust the heat to medium high, and slowly bring the
  mixture to a boil, stirring constantly. Cook 30 seconds longer. It
  will be quite thick. Remove the pan from the heat. Stir in the
  ginger, garlic, curry powder, red pepper, salt and black pepper. Let
  the mixture cook slightly, then fold in the parsley, lobster, shrimp,
  carrots, mushrooms, almonds, peas and onions. Scrape the filling into
  the casserole. On a slightly floured work space, roll the puff pastry
  to a thickness of 1/4 inch. Cut it out, using the paper template. In
  the center of the pastry, cut out an air hole about 1/2 inch in
  diameter. Place the pastry over the casserole, pressing it down on
  the sides to seal. Cut the remaining pastry into strips or shapes and
  decorate the top of the pot pie. (This dish may be prepared ahead to
  this point, covered and refrigerated up to 1 day.) Brush the top with
  the egg wash. To help prevent the liquid from boiling over onto the
  crust, make a steam vent by rolling a 3-inch strip of heavy aluminum
  foil width-wise around a wooden spoon handle. Insert it gently into
  the hole. Remove spoon, leaving foil in place. Place the casserole on
  a cookie sheet and transfer it to the middle of the oven. Bake for 20
  minutes, then reduce heat to 375F and continue baking for 20-to-25
  minutes longer, or until the pastry is puffed and rich golden brown.
  Remove the pan, let it rest with the vent inside for 15-to-20 minutes
  to keep the crust from becoming soggy.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VIBRANT COLD VEGETABLE TERRINE
 Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------CARROT-CAULIFLOWER LAYERS----------------------
     10 oz Frozen Belgian carrots
           - cooked until tender,
           - then blotted dry
           - on paper towels
     10 oz Frozen cauliflower,
           - cooked until tender,
           - then blotted dry
           - on paper towels
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Frozen chopped onions
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Dried bread crumbs
      1 ts Salt; or to taste
    1/2 ts Dried chervil leaves
           - crumbled
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Butter; to grease the pan

MMMMM-------------------MUSHROOM-SPINACH LAYER------------------------
     10 oz Frozen chopped spinach
           - defrosted & squeezed dry
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Frozen chopped onions
      8 oz Frozen sliced mushrooms
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Dried bread crumbs
      1 ts Salt; or to taste
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
      1 pn Ground red pepper
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  MAKE THE CARROT-CAULIFLOWER LAYERS. Place the carrots and cauliflower
  in the bowl of a food processor fitted with a steel chopping blade.
  Process until smooth. In a large skillet, heat the oil over
  medium-high heat. Add the onions and saute them until tender and
  golden. This will take about 5 minutes. Stir in the butter and let it
  melt. Scrape the onions and butter into the processor. Add all the
  remaining ingredients for the carrot-cauliflower layers and process
  until smooth. Scrape into a bowl, cover, and refrigerate while
  preparing the other layer. Preheat your oven to 350F. Bring a large
  pot of water to a boil. Butter a 9-by-5-by-3-inch loaf pan. Line the
  bottom and ends with buttered wax paper, buttered side up. MAKE THE
  SPINACH-MUSHROOM LAYER. Place the spinach in the processor and pulse
  a few times. Cook the onions in hot oil for 1 minute. Add the frozen
  mushrooms and cook them along with the onions over high heat until
  all the liquid has evaporated, about 6 to 7 minutes. Stir in the
  butter. Scrape the mixture into the processor. Add all the remaining
  ingredients and process until smooth. Scrape about half of the
  carrot-cauliflower mixture into the pan, packing it well into the
  corners, and flattening it with a spatula or the palm of your hand to
  remove any air pockets. Add all of the spinach-mushroom mixture, and
  again flatten it. Finally, add the remaining carrot mixture. Smooth
  it down on top. Cover with buttered wax paper. Place pan in another
  pan and fill the latter with boiling water to a level of 2 inches up
  the side of the terrine. Bake in the preheated oven for 1 1/4 hours,
  or until a knife inserted into the middle comes out clean. Remove
  terrine from the oven and cover it with a piece of cardboard or a
  second loaf pan (the same size) right side up. Place about 1 pound of
  weight, evenly distributed, on the terrine. Refrigerate until well
  chilled, at least 2 hours. Once chilled, carefully remove from the
  pan by running a thin-bladed knife between the terrine and the pan.
  Invert onto a flat dish, peel off the paper and serve. Garnish with
  curly leafed lettuce, if desired.
  
  JOANNA PRUESS - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Terrific Turkey Spread
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6 oz Cooked turkey breast
    1/3 c  Finely chopped Onion
    1/4 c  Packed grated Carrot
    1/4 c  Finely chopped Apple
    1/3 c  Plain non/low-fat yogurt
      1 tb Mayonnaise (optional)
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Curry Powder
 
  Cut turkey into small pieces. Process the turkey and onion together
  in food processor, or chop them together by hand. Add remaining
  ingredients, mixing them well. Chill the spread before serving it.
  
  This was originally published in "Diabetes Self-Management" magazine
  as prepared by Nancy Cooper, a registered dietitian at the
  International Diabetes Center in Minneapolis, MN.
  
  You can use home-cooked turkey or deli-style turkey.
  
  From: Jane Brody's "Good Food Gourmet" Posted by: Sheila Exner
  :       RECIPE CLIPPED by Michael Prothro
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Butter
 Categories: Fruit, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Butter; softened
    3/4 c  Strawberries; crushed
      1    Lemon; juice of
 
  Cream butter; stir in fruit and juice. Refrigerate or freeze. Keeps
  well in freezer. Makes 1 1/2 cup.
   NOTE: Other fresh fruit is a good substitute, such as rasberries,
  blueberries, finely chopped apples or pears. Experiment!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Butter Basic Recipe
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Unsalted butter
      5 tb Chopped fresh herbs -OR-
      5 ts Dried herbs
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Salt & white pepper
 
  Chop the herbs very fine or pulverize the seeds. Cream the butter and
  blend in the herbs and seasonings. Shape as desired and chill or
  freeze up to 6 months.
  
  Some of the suggested combinations: 1. Dill, mustard seed, parsley,
  and a touch of lemon rind or a few mustard seeds for fish and
  potatoes.
   2. Sage, parsley, and chives for chicken, veal, rice, & pasta.
   3. Basil and garlic for lamb, chicken, or fish.
   4. Cilantro, cumin, parsley, and dried red or fresh jalapeno pepper
  for a taste of the Southwest on rice, chicken, pork,
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sulu's Lemon Chicken
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Med onion,thinly sliced
      1    Lemon
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Japanese light soy sauce
    1/4 c  Sake or white wine
      4    Whole chicken breasts,halved
           Egg
    3/4 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Cooking oil
 
  Put onion in large bowl. Cut the ends off the lemon, slice it and add
  to the onion. Add the sugar, sake, and soy sauce; stir well. Rinse
  and pat dry the chicken breasts, put them in the bowl and spoon the
  marinade over them. Marinate them for an hour at room temperature,
  stirring occasionally to be sure that all pieces are more or less
  equally marinated. In a dish or small mixing bowl, thoroughly beat
  the egg. Put the flour in a plastic bag, dip a couple of the chicken
  breasts in the egg and shake them with the flour in the bag to coat
  them. Heat the oil in the pan and add the floured chicken breasts.
  Repeat until all the pieces are coated and in the frypan. Brown the
  chicken on both sides over medium heat (it should take about 20 to 30
  minutes) and then add the marinade and simmer until the chicken is
  well cooked, perhaps another 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tribble's Banquet
 Categories: Poultry, Sandwich
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------SANDWICH MAKINGS---------------------------
      1    Chicken Breast or other part
           -per sandwich
      1 oz Sliced Swiss cheese per sand
      1 oz Sliced Corn Beef per sand.
      2    Slices rye bread per sand.
           Seasoned salt to taste

MMMMM----------------COLE SLAW(ENOUGH FOR 4 SAND---------------------
      3 c  Cabbage, shredded
    3/4 c  Carrots, shredded
    1/4 c  Green onions, sliced
    1/3 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Seasoned salt to taste
 
  Cook and chill the chicken ahead of time. Next make the coleslaw. Mix
  the vegetables together in a large bowl, then add the mayo and lemon
  juice. Mix well. Add seasoned salt. To make the sandwiches: Put a
  slice of Swiss cheese and a slice of corned bef on a slice of bread.
  Take the meat from the bones of 1 chicken piece and spread it over
  the corned beef. Sprinkle with seasoned salt, cover wtih 2 to 3 large
  spoonfuls of coleslaw and top with a second slice of bread. Cut the
  sandwich in half and serve with a pickle.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tayleea Cheecha
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------ROMULAN MEAT AND FRUIT STEW---------------------
  1 1/2 tb Cooking oil
  1 1/2 lb Stew beef
      1 c  Apple cider
      1    Onion; cut into chunks
    1/4 c  Raisin; or 8 pitted prunes
      1 cn Mushrooms (4 oz); undrained
     16    Dried apricot halves
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1    Slice of lemon
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
 
  Heat the oil in the pan and brown the beef chunks all over. Add the
  cider and reduce the heat until the contents of the pan are just
  simmering. Add everthing else except the cornstarch and the water.
  Simmer for about 2 hours, or until the meat is quite tender. Then mix
  the cornstarch in the water and add it to the meat mixture. Cook for
  a few more minutes until the sauce is thickened. Serve with either
  hot buttered rice or boiled potatoes with parsley and brown butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nancy's Honey Mustard Grilled Chicken or Pork
 Categories: Poultry, Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------NANCY BROWN WCPW93B-------------------------
           Chicken or pork
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/4 c  Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Lemon juice, fresh
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2    Garlic cloves; crushed
 
  Combine ingredients. Marinate chicken or pork for 2-8 hours, then
  grill.
  
  Reformatted by: Wendell Openshaw SRNP05A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Spread WW
 Categories: Appetizers, Fish
      Yield: 14 servings
 
     11 oz Salmon; skin, drain, flake
      1 c  Reduced-calorie creamed
           -cheese spread
      1 tb Onion; minced
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Horseradish mustard
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Parsley; finely chopped
     42    Melba rounds
 
  Using a for, in medium mixing bowl thoroughly combine all ingredients
  except parsley and melba rounds. Cover with plastic wrap and
  refrigerate until chilled, about 1 hour.
     Transfer salmon mixture to serving platter and form into a mound;
  using rubber scraper smooth sides and shape into a ball. Sprinkle
  parsley over surface of ball, pressing to adhere. Serve with melba
  rounds.
     1 serving= 1 protein; 1/2 bread. 5 cal optional exchange. 85 cal,
  2 g fat; 8 g CHO 60 mg calcium, 8 mg chol. 136 mg sodium. *This
  recipe does not include reduced-calorie creamed cheese count for
  cholesterol. Serving suggestion:  Try this on crispbread, as a dip
  for breadsticks, or as a tasty sandwich filling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Cheese Ball WW
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------DGSV43A JUDY LAUSCH-------------------------
  2 2/3 c  Reduced-calorie creamed
           -cheese spread
      5 oz Sharp Cheddar cheese; shred
      1 tb Green onion; finely chop
      1 tb Pimiento; drain and chop
      2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
  2 1/2 tb Sesame seeds; toasted
 
  In medium bowl, combine all ingredients except sesame seed, mixing
  until smooth.  Cover and refrigerate until mixture is firm, at least
  4 hours.
     Form cheese mixture into a ball.  Onto sheet of wax paper or
  plastic wrap, sprinkle sesame seed; roll cheese ball in seeds until
  ball is throoughly coated. Serve immediately or cover and refrigerate
  until ready to serve.  1 serving= 1 1/2 protein, 50 cal optional
  exchange; 168 cal; 15 g protein; 10 g fat; 4 g CHO; 195 mg calcium;
  365 mg sodium; 19 mg chol (this recipe does not include the
  cholesterol count for the reduced calorie creamed cheese)/  Serve
  with crispbread or melba rounds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spring Herb Dip
 Categories: Dips/spread, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/3 c  Sliced scallions
    1/3 c  Parsley sprigs
    1/2    Small clove garlic
      1 ts Wine vinegar or lemon juice
 
  In blender or food processor, blend all ingredients 30 seconds or
  until smooth. Cover; chill.  Serve with cut-up vegetables. Makes 1
  cup.
   Pat Empson 05/25 10:02 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/25 10:15 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM-MIXED BAG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MINTED POTATOES
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -PNewton vkbb14a
      6 c  White or red potatoes;
      1 tb Soft marg
    1/2 c  Minced fresh mint
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
 
  Quarter and slice potatoes. In large saucepan, boil potatoes in water
  until tender, about 10 min. Drain.
  
  In large saute' pan, melt marg & saute' mint with lemon juice for 1
  min. Add potatoes and toss to coat. Reheat & serve.
  
  From: What's for Dinner?
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Country Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Low cal/fat, Fruit
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 ts Curry powder
      1 lg Golden Delicious apple,
           Cored and chopped
      1 lg Yellow onion, finely chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
      4 oz Mushrooms, sliced
      1 ts Chicken bouillon
      2 c  Apple juice or cider
  3 1/2 lb Chicken thigh, skinned
      1 tb Flour
 
  Place curry powder in a wide frying pan and stir over medium heat
  until slightly darker in color (3-4 minutes). Add apple, yellow
  onion, lemon juice, mushrooms, bouillon, and 1 1/2 C. of the apple
  juice; bring to a boil.
  
  Rinse chicken and pat dry; add to pan. Reduce heat, cover, and simmer
  until meat near bone is no longer pink; cut to test (about 30
  minutes). Lift chicken from pan; arrange on a warm platter. Keep warm.
  
  Blend flour and remaining 1/2 C. apple juice. Gradually add to sauce
  in pan, stirring; increase heat to high and cook, stirring until
  sauce is thickened. Pour over chicken. The sauce also tastes good
  poured over baked potato or rice. 305 calories 7g fat Pat Empson
  05/24 11:10 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/24 11:25 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caviar with Pasta Filler
 Categories: Pasta, Seafood, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Green onion; chopped
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
      1 ts Lemon peel; grated
      8 oz Thin spaghetti;cook al dente
      2 oz Jar Romanoff golden white-
           -fish caviar
 
  Melt the butter. Add onion, and cook over a low heat for 1 minute. Add
  cream and lemon peel. Heat through; toss with pasta. Turn out onto a
  heated platter. Top with caviar. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Lucia
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      2 lb Chicken breasts; bone, skin,
           -1-1/2" chunks
           Flour for dredging
           Salt and freshly ground
           -pepper to taste
    1/4 c  Olive oiil
      2 lg Cloves garlic; finely chop
      1 ts Dried oregano
     14 oz Can artichoke hears; drain,
           -cut in half
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Water
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley; chop
 
  Season the flour with salt and pepper and dredge chicken in flour
  mixture. Heat the oil and garlic in a large skillet. When hot, add
  the chicken. Sprinkle with oregano and simmer over medium-high heat 3
  to 4 minutes. Add the artichoke hearts, drizzle with lemon juice and
  add water. Cover and simmer until the chicken is done, 5 to 10
  minutes, adding parsley in the last couple of minutes. Source:
  Uncommon Gourmet (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: An Uncommon Pasta Sauce
 Categories: Tomatoes, Salsa/sauce, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 c  Onion; chop
      2 tb Olive oil
      3 c  Boiling water
      3 oz Sun-dried tomato halves; no
           -oil
      1 lg Clove garlic; quartered
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      2 tb Parsley; choppedd
      1 tb Fresh basil; chopped or
      1 ts Dried basil
      2 ts Fresh oregano; chopped or
    3/4 ts Dried oregano
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  In large skillet over medium heat, saute onion in oil 5 minutes.
  Meanwhile, combine water and tomatoes in bowl; set aside 2 to 3
  minutes. With slotted spoon remove and set aside 1/3 of the tomatoes.
  In container of electric blender or processor puree the remaining
  tomato/water mixture and the garlic. Add puree and reserved tomato
  halves to skillet. Bring to boil, reduce heat and simmer gently 10
  minutes. Stir in remaining ingredients; simmer 1 minute. Remove from
  heat. Serve over your choice of hot cooked pasta. Sprinkle with
  Parmesan. Source: Sonoma Sun-Dried Tomatoes (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fancy Fish
 Categories: Tomatoes, Seafood, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
           Mayo
           Lemon juice
           Dill weed
           Rehydrated dried tomato
           -halves; chopped
        ds Hot pepper sauce
 
  Mix all and serve as a sauce with fish or even fish sticks. Source:
  Sun- Dried Tomatoes (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chile Cheese Potatoes
 Categories: Vegetables, Ethnic, Side dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Pam Coombes
      3    Dried chile piquins
      4    Green chiles, skinned,seeded
           And chopped
      1    Green chile, skinned,seeded
           Cut into strips
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 lg Onion, sliced and separated
           Into rings
      2 c  Monterey jack or cheddar
           Cheese, grated
      1 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Olive oil
      6    Potatoes, boiled, diced
 
  Mix the piquins, lemon juice, and salt. Add the onion rings and toss
  until coated. Cover and marinate, at room temp, for 30 minutes.
  Drain. Combine the cheese, creamand chopped chile in a blender and
  puree until smooth. Heat the oil and slowly add the cheese mixture,
  stirring constantly. Simmer over low heat until the sauce thickens,
  about 5-10 minutes. To serve, pour the sauce over the hot potatoes
  and garnish with the drained onion rings and chile strips. The Fiery
  Cuisines 05/20 02:11 am Pam Coombes Fairfax, VA
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/20 2:24 AM
  
  TO:      ALL FROM: PAM COOMBES (RNCM95A) SUBJECT: R-MM VEGGIES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOM GRAVY
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -BTMF00B
      4 x  Chicken legs or thighs
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper

MMMMM-----------------------MUSHROOM GRAVY----------------------------
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 cn Mushroom gravy(10-1/2 oz)
      1 cn Mushroom,sliced(4 oz) drain
      1 ts Onion, minced
      1 tb Parsley
      1 ts Garlic powder
 
  Place chicken in a roasting pan. In small bowl, comnbine lemon juice,
  oil & seasonings. Pour over chicken. Bake at 375 deg for 45 min ir
  til lightly browned. Turm chicken twice & baste occasionly. Remove
  from oven. For the gravy, combine water & cornstarch in pan. Stir in
  remaining ingredients & bring to boil over med heat. Spoon over
  chicken. Cover loosely with foil./ Bake, basting frequently for 1
  hour or til chicken is tender. 4 P, 1 1/2 F, 1 V, 1/2 B
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruited Passover Kugels
 Categories: Passover
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton - PDPP83A
    1/4 c  Margarine; divided
      4    Matzo boards; broken into
           -small pieces
      1 c  -Water
      2 tb Light brown sugar; packed
      2 ts Light brown sugar; packed
      4    Eggs; separated
      4 sm Apples; cored, pared, and
           -coarsely shredded
      8 lg Pitted prunes; diced
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
        ds Salt
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.  Grease eight 6-ounce custard cups with 1/4
  teaspoon margarine each; set aside.  In small bowl combine matzo and
  water; set aside.
  
  In large mixing bowl, using electric mixer, beat remaining 3
  tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon margarine with the sugar until light and
  fluffy. Add egg yolks and continue beating until mixture is well
  combined. Add fruits, lemon juice, cinnamon, and matzo mixture and
  stir to combine; set aside.
  
  In separate bowl, using clean beaters, beat egg whites with salt until
  stiff peaks form; gently fold whites into batter. Spoon 1/8 of batter
  into each prepared custard cup and bake until lightly browned, about
  35 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes; using spatula loosen kugels from
  cups, transfer to wire rack, and let cool completely. Per each
  serving: 1/2 protein, 1 bread, 1 1/2 fat, 1 fruit, 20 calories.
  
  Source:  WW meeting handout.  Festive Fare Passover recipes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Roasted Turkey with Mushroom Gravy
 Categories: Poultry, Passover
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Joyce Burton - PDPP83A
     10 lb To 12 lb. turkey; thawed
           -if frozen
      4    Sprigs fresh thyme
      4    Sprigs fresh rosemary
      1 md Onion; quartered
      1    Lemon; Use peel only, cut
           -into strips
      1 c  Dried mushrooms;
           -reconstituted* (reserve 1
           -cup liquid)
      1 c  Low-sodium chicken broth
      1 oz (2 Tb) dry white wine; or
           -increase broth by 2 Tb.
      2 ts Potato starch
    1/2 ts Dried chives
    1/4 ts -Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
   *To reconstitute mushrooms, cover 1/2 ounce dried sliced mushrooms
  with 1 1/2 cups warm water.  Let stand 30 minutes.
   1.  Preheat oven to 325 F.
   2.  Remove turkey giblets and neck from body cavities. Rinse turkey
  inside and out; pat dry with paper towels.
   3.  Starting at neck, using your fingers, gently loosen skin over
  entire breast.  Place thyme and rosemary sprigs at even intervals
  under skin; pat skin back in place. Place onion and lemon peel in
  body cavity. Place turkey breast-side up on rack in roasting pan.
   4.  Roast turkey 3 1/2-4 hours, until meat thermometer inserted in
  fleshy part of inner thigh (not touching bone) reaches 180 F. Let
  stand 15 minutes before carving.  Remove skin before eating.
   5.  Meanwhile, to prepare gravy, pour pan drippings into a 2-cup
  measure; let stand 5 minutes.  Skim off and discard fat; pour
  remaining liquid into small saucepan. Add mushrooms and 1 cup
  mushroom liquid, broth, wine, potato starch, chives, salt and pepper;
  bring to a boil. Simmer 2 minutes. Serve with turkey. Each serving (3
  ounces turkey and 1/4 cup gravy) provides:  3 P, 1/4 V, 5 C.  Per
  serving: 159 cal, 25 g pro, 4 g fat, 3 g car, 114 mg sod, 65 mg chol.
  
  Source:  "Weight Watchers" magazine, April 1992.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE ROUGHY WITH VEGETABLES
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 lb Orange Roughy Fillets
      2 tb Lemon Juice, Divided
     16 oz Can Stewed Tomatoes, cut
    1/2 ts Mixed Italian Herbs
      1 c  Celery; minced
      1 c  Onion; chopped
      1 c  Bell Pepper
      1 c  Mushrooms; sliced
    1/4 ts Thyme
        pn Garlic powder
        pn Hot Pepper flakes
 
   Spray a 13x9 Pan with non stick cooking spray and sprinkle with 1
  tbls. of Lemon Juice.  Arrange fish in a single layer and sprinkle
  with 1 tbls. Lemon Juice. Combine remaining ingredients and spoon
  over fish. Bake uncovered in a 350 Degrees oven for 25-30 Minutes,
  until Fish flakes and sauce is thick.
  
   Serves 4:  Each serving Counts 4 proteins, 2 vegetables.
   Posted by F.MULLINS1 [RHONDA] on Jul 07, 1992 MM by Cathy Svitek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach, Cheese & Tomato Lasagna ( Part 1 )
 Categories: Pasta, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------EGG PASTA------------------------------
      2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      2 pn Salt
      2 lg Eggs
      2 ts Olive oil

MMMMM--------------------------LASAGNE-------------------------------
      8 oz Mozzarella cheese; shredded
  2 1/2 lb Tomatoes; fresh or canned
           - peeled, seeded, chopped
      3 tb Virgin olive oil
      1 sm Onion; finely diced
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
  1 1/2 ts Fresh marjoram or oregano
           - OR 1/2 tsp each dried
    1/2 c  Red wine
           Sugar; if needed
           Red wine vinegar

MMMMM-------------------SPINACH-CHEESE FILLING------------------------
      3 sm Bunches spinach
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 sm Onion; finely diced
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
           Salt, pepper and nutmeg
      2 c  Ricotta
      2    Eggs
      1 c  Parmesan; freshly grated
      3 tb Parsley; chopped
      1 ts Lemon peel; minced or grated

MMMMM--------------------------BECHAMEL-------------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
           Salt, pepper and nutmeg
 
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon sweet and sour sauce**DXDG05A
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Asian, Appetizers, Chinese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Jane Harris
      1 ts Lemon peel;grated
      1 tb Oil
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ea Lemon juice;from 2 lemons
      6 tb Water
      1 ts Cornstarch
 
  saute peel in oil add sugar juice of 2 lemons mix cornstarch with
  water and add to mixture cook over medium heat till smooth and thick
  this is excellent with chicken
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BBQ Sauce Xxxj77a
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter; 1 stick
      1    Onion; finely chopped
      1    Garlic Clove; finely chopped
      3 tb Vinegar
      1 c  Chili Sauce; Heinz
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Brown Sugar
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
    1/2 tb Mustard
    1/2    Lemon; juice
      1 cn Beer; cooks choice
           Pepper

MMMMM----------------YOUR LINK TO THE PHILLY.INQU---------------------
 
       In a large saucepan, saute onion and garlic in butter. When the
  onions are transparent add the remainder of ingredients. Bring to a
  boil. Simmer until your grill is ready, about 10 to 15 minutes or
  until you can't stand the wonderful smell of the sauce any longer.
  Now let me tell you, this is what I call barbecue sauce.
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/28 2:43 PM
  
  TO:      ALL FROM: IRWIN SOLOMON (JJGF65A) SUBJECT: SAUCES 4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood LoCicero
 Categories: Seafood, Pasta, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
     12    Mussels
      8    Clams
     12    Shrimp
      8    Scallops
      4    Pasta pancakes
      8 oz Ginger-pepper sauce
           Kiwi puree
           GINGER-PEPPER SAUCE
      1 oz Ginger root; chopped
      4 oz Yellow, green and red
           -peppers; chopped
    1/2 c  Marsala wine
    1/4 c  Light brown sugar
      1 oz Soy sauce
      1    Lemon; juice only
  2 1/2 c  Rich veal demi-glace or beef
           -broth
           KIWI PUREE
      4    Ripe kiwis
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Water
           PASTA PANCAKES
    1/4 c  Cappellini
      2 oz Fresh basiil
      1 oz Green onion; chopped
    1/2 oz Pimentos
    1/2 oz Dried anise
           Salt and pepper to taste
      4    Eggs
      4 oz Parmesan cheese
      4 oz Bread crumbs
 
  In a sauce, reduce demi-glace (or broth) by half. In a separate pan,
  saute peppers and ginger with the brown sugar. Unglaze with the
  marsala wine and reduce until almost all liquid is gone. Add the
  broth. Reduce by half. Add soy sauce and lemon juice. KIWI PUREE-Peel
  
  and chop kiwi. Cook kiwi and sugar over a low flame until the sugar
  starts to break down. Deglaze with white wine. Reduce and add water.
  Reduce again by half. Puree and strain. PASTA PANCAKES-Cook
  cappellini until just a little past done. Drain pasta. In a mixing
  bowl, mix all ingredients thoroughly. Mixture should bind together;
  if not, add more bread crumbs. Press mixture into a lightly oiled 9"
  pie pan. Freeze until firm. Remove and cut into 4 wedges. TO
  SERVE-Saute pancakes until golden brown on one side. Flip pancakes
  and bake in a 350~ oven for 5 minutes. One hour before serving,
  marinate scallops and shrimp in a marinade of 1/2 C white wine and
  1/4 C lemon juice. Poach mussels and clams in white wine until done.
  Grill or saute shrimp and scallops until done. Cover 1/2 of each
  plate with 2 oz of the ginger-pepper sauce. Garnish 1/2 of each plate
  with a pasta pancake
  
  TIME:    05/31  3:23 PM
  
  TO:      SCOTT MEHL   (CFFM46C) FROM: C MINEAH (HCPM52C) SUBJECT: R-MM
  VEGETABLE MEDLE
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mini Pate a Choux Fillings (I)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 40 servings
 
           -Martha Stewart Hors d'

MMMMM--------------------SMOKED SALMON MOUSE-------------------------
      8 oz Cream cheese
      2 oz Smoked salmon
    1/8 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Heavy cream
           White pepper to taste

MMMMM-----------------------CURRIED ONIONS----------------------------
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      4 lg Onions, finely chopped
           Salt & Pepper to taste
      1 tb Flour
      3 ts Curry powder (to taste)
    3/4 c  Heavy cream

MMMMM----------------------CRABMEAT FILLING---------------------------
      8 oz Cream cheese
      4 oz Snow crabmeat thawed/drained
      1    Red bell pepper, julienned
           -into 1-inch strips
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
           Salt & Pepper to taste
 
  SALMON: Combine mousse ingredients in bowl of food processor and blend
  until smooth. Chill at least 30 minutes. No more than an hour before
  serving, soften mousse with wooden spoon and put in pastry bag. Pipe
  mousse into puffs. (May also be piped onto cucumber rounds.) CURRIED
  ONIONS: Heat 3 tbl butter in small skillet and saute onions until
  transluscent. Season w/salt & pepper. Melt remaining butter in
  separate saucepan over med. heat. Add flour and cook 3-4 minutes,
  stirring constantly. Add curry powder and cream. Cook stirring
  constantly, until smooth, about 5 minutes. Add onion mixture. If
  sauce is too thick, add a little more cream. Check seasoning. Spoon
  warm
  
  filling into puffs and serve immediately. CRABMEAT: Combine all
  filling ingredients in mixing bowl. Spoon into puffs. Formatted by
  Theresa Grant, HWWK11b, from Martha Stewart Hors d'oeuvres.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garbanzo Sesame Spread
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Bon Appetit Appetizers
 15 1/2 oz Garbanzo beans, drained
    1/3 c  Lemon juice, fresh
      2 tb Lemon juice, fresh
    1/4 c  Tahini (sesame paste)
      3 tb Green onion, chopped
      2 cl Garlic
    1/4 ts Salt
           Pepper, freshly ground
           Cilantro for garnish
           Toasted pita wedges
 
  Puree all but cilantro and pita wedges in food processor. Transfer to
  bowl, cover and refrigerate at least 30 minutes. Garnish with
  cilantro and serve with toasted pita wedges. Formatted by Theresa
  Grant, HWWK11b, from Bon Appetit Appetizers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chip Chicken Casserole
 Categories: Poultry, Casseroles, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Chicken; cooked, chopped
      2 c  Celery; chopped
      1 c  Blanched almonds
      2 tb Onion; grated
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 c  Cheese; shredded
      1 c  Potato chips; crushed
 
  Combine chicken, celery, almonds and onion. Blend together until
  smooth the lemon juice, sour cream, and soup. Stir into chicken
  mixture. Top with cheese and potato chips. Bake at 350~ for 30
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: One Pan Chicken & Noodles
 Categories: Poultry, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Onion; minced
    1/4 c  Celery; chopped
      3 tb Butter
      2 c  Chicken; cooked, cubed
      6 oz Noodles; UNCOOKED
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
  2 1/4 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 oz Mushrooms with juice
 
  In a dutch oven saute the onion and celery in butter until tender.
  Add the chicken and top with the noodles. In a bowl combine the soup,
  broth, lemon juice, and pepper. Pour over the noodles, moistening
  all. Scatter the mushrooms on top. Cover and bring to a boil. Reduce
  the heat to simmer and cook for 15-20 minutes, stirring occasionally.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Rice Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles, Seafood, Rice, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Shrimp
      1    Onion; chopped
      2    Celery ribs; chopped
           Garlic to taste
      1 tb Butter
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
    1/2 tb Lemon juice
           Salt and pepper to taste
  1 1/2 c  Rice; cooked
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    3/4 c  Cheese; grated
           Green pepper rings
 
  Boil shrimp and peel, devein, and cut into bite sized pieces. Saute
  onion, celery, and garlic in butter. Do not brown. Add soup, lemon
  juice, and seasoning. Fold in rice and shrimp. Then fold in sour
  cream and pour into buttered casserole dish. Sprinkle with cheese and
  decorate with pepper rings. Bake at 325~ for 30 minutes. From
  Pirate's Pantry
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Shrimp Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp; cooked
      1 c  Rice; cooked
      1 c  Sharp cheese; grated
      1 cn Mushroom soup
    1/2 c  Green pepper; chopped
    1/2 c  Green onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Celery; chopped
    1/2 c  Butter
           Lemons
 
  Mix first 4 ingredients together. Saute pepper, onion and celery in
  butter. Add to shrimp mixture. Put in flat casserole and completely
  cover top with sliced lemons. Bake at 375~F, covered, for about 20
  minutes. Serves 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecue Sauce Xxxj77a
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter; 1 stick
      1    Onion; finely chopped
      1    Garlic Clove; finely chopped
      3 tb Vinegar
      1 c  Chili Sauce; Heinz
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Brown Sugar
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
    1/2 tb Mustard
    1/2    Lemon; juice
      1 cn Beer; cooks choice
           Pepper
 
       In a large saucepan, saute onion and garlic in butter. When the
  onions are transparent add the remainder of ingredients. Bring to a
  boil. Simmer until your grill is ready, about 10 to 15 minutes or
  until you can't stand the wonderful smell of the sauce any longer.
  Now let me tell you, this is what I call barbecue sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Western Style Bbq  Trgs42a
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Ketchup,
    1/2 c  Lemon juice,
    1/4 c  Onion ; minced
      1 ts Hot pepper
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce.
 
  Place all ingredients in saucepan.  Bring to a boil and simmer 30
  minutes or until slightly thickened.
   Okay!  Made it in one message! The Southeast has about a jillion
  different sauce recipes and they vary from town to town. My favorites
  are the mustard based ones. I'll look some up and post  when  I can.
   Mike Anderson - TRGS42A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHARK AMANDINE
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      6 tb Melted butter
      1 tb Grated lemon rind
      2 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
      4    Shark fillets
      4 tb Sherry
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/2 lb Bacon; fried and crumbled
      4    Green onions; chopped
           Lemon wedges
 
  Lightly brown the almonds in the butter and set aside.
   parsley, butter, lemon rind, and juice. Rub both sides of the
  fillets with the sherry and place on a broiler pan. Sprinkle with
  pepper. Spoon some of the butter mixture over each fillet. Broil for
  5 to 10 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fillets. Turn
  over, spoon on more butter sauce and continue broiling until done. Do
  not overcook or the fish will be dry. Remove to a serving platter.
  Sprinke with the almonds, bacon, and green onions. Garnish with lemon
  wedges. COMMENTS: Swordfish or mahi-mahi may be substituted if shark
  is unavailable. Source: San Francisco Encore Cookbook Reformatted for
  MealMaster by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TEQUILA BEEF STEAKS
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
      4    New York strip steaks; (each
           -8 to 10 oz., cut 1 to 1-1/2
           -inch thick), fat trimmed
    1/2 c  Tequila
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Pepper
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
      1    Clove garlic; pressed or min
           -Salt
 
  With a damp paper towel, wipe steaks; put meat in a 1- gallon plastic
  food bag. Add tequila, oil, pepper, lemon peel, and garlic; seal bag,
  and turn to mix seasonings. Set bag in a bowl; chill at least 1 hour
  or up to 1 day; turn bag over occasionally. Drain steaks and place on
  a grill 4 to 6 inches above a solid bed of hot coals (you can hold
  your hand at grill level only 2 to 3 seconds, or set gas barbecue at
  this heat). Turn steaks to brown evenly; for medium-rare (cut to
  test), cook 12 to 14 minutes. Transfer meat to plates; season to
  taste with salt. Serves 4. Per serving: 385 calories (44 % from fat),
  19 g fat, 116 mg sodium, and 291 mg cholesterol. Source: Sunset
  Magazine - February, 1993 Reformatted for MealMaster by: CYGNUS,
  HCPM52C
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hidden Valley Oyster Crackers Mix *
 Categories: Snacks, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1 pk Unsalted oyster crackers
      1 cn Mixed nuts
    1/2 pk Fish crackers
    3/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 pk Hidden Valley Ranch Mix
      1 ts Lemon pepper seasoning
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Onion powder
      2 ts Dried dill
 
  Preheat oven to 250~. Mix oil, dressingmix, and all seasonings
  together. Pour crackers into large baking pan. Stir in fish crackers
  and nuts. Drizzle oil mixture over and stir well to coat all crackers
  and nuts. Bake for 15 minutes. Do not overbake. Store in air-tight
  container.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fall Harvest Popcorn
 Categories: Snacks
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 qt Popped popcorn; unsalted
      2 cn Shoestring potatoes
      1 c  Mixed nuts; salted
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine; melted
      1 ts Dill weed
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Lemon pepper seasoning
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Onion powder
 
  Preheat oven to 325~. Combine popcorn, shoestring potatoes and nuts in
  large roasting pan. Set aside. Combne butter, dill, worcestershire
  sauce, lemon pepper seasoning, garlic powder and onion powder in
  small bowl; pour over popcorn mixtue, stirring until evenly coated.
  Bake 8-10 minutes, stirring once. Cool completely; store in airtight
  containers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: East African Piri-Piri Sauce
 Categories: Appetizers, Salsa/sauce, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Unsalted butter
      3    Small red chiles
      6    Cloves garlic
      1 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Chile powder
           Lemon or lime juice
 
  You like hot? You can increase the heat to "paint-remover" by using
  hotter chiles or adding to spice quantities. Pound chiles and garlic
  in a mortar (or process). Add to melted butter (in Africa, usually
  clarified butler) with paprika and chile powder. Add lime or lemon
  juice to taste (lime will be better for this one). Mix well. For
  chicken wings, or breasts, or fish, or prawns, marinate meat for 5-10
  minutes, baste with sauce while cooking and spoon sauce over before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ambrosia Fruit Dip
 Categories: Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 c  Plain lowfat yogurt
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
     14    Packets Equal sweetner
 
  Blend cream cheese & yogurt until smooth. Stir in remaining
  ingredients. Chill. Makes 2 cups or 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Walnut-cheese Spread *
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips/spread, Cheese/eggs, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3 oz Cream cheese; softened
    1/2 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Green onions; finely chopped
        ds Garlic powder
 
  In small bowl, stir cream cheese until smooth; stir in walnuts, lemon
  juice, green onions and garlic powder. Serve with whole wheat or
  pumpernickel party bread. Makes 3/4 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP FLORIDAN EN PAPILATE
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     48    Fresh shrimp (2 lbs)
      8 oz Cream cheese
      8 oz Blue cheese
      8 oz Sour cream
      2 tb Garlic;finely chopped
      4 tb Parsley; finely chopped
    1/2 c  Sauterne wine
      6    Lemon wedges
      6    Alum foil pieces 12/12"
 
  Cook, peel & clean shrimp & let cool.  Blend together the cheeses &
  sour cream, being careful to get a smooth and even mixture. Cheese
  sauce will be thin.
   Add the chopped garlic & parsley & mix well.  Add the wine. (A bit
  more or less wine may be required to get the desired thickness of the
  mixture.) Place about 4 oz. of the mixture on a piece of the foil;
  add 8 shrimp (or more if you want) and top with a piece of lemon.
  Fold over 2 sides of foil, then ends, so a tight package is formed to
  prevent leaking. (You could use ramekins in place of foil) Bake in
  oven at 350 degrees for about 15 minutes.   - The cheese sauce from
  shrimp is delicious on baked potato! From Siples Garden Seat
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED SHRIMP WITH BACON
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           Judy Garnett - pjxg05a
      2 lb Fresh jumbo shrimp
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Catsup
      3 ds Hot pepper sauce
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/2 lb Bacon; (or more)
           Lemon wedges
 
  Shell and devein uncooked shrimp. In a bowl, mix next 5 ingredients.
  Marinate shrimp in mixture 30 mins. to 1 hour at room temp. Cut bacon
  into thirds or halves and wrap bacon around shrimp. Thread onto
  skewers. Grill until bacon is crisp, 10 to 12 mins. Turn several
  times and brush with reserved marinade. Bacon dripping will cause the
  grill to flare up, so keep the water spritzer handy. Serve at once
  with lemon wedges. Formatted by Judy Garnett    Source: Simply
  Delicious
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BETTI'S LONDON BROIL***FGGT98B
 Categories: Main dish, Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Melted butter
      2    Med Sliced onions
    1/4 ts Salt (opt)
      2 tb Salad oil
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      2    Crushed garlic
    1/2 ts Salt (opt)
    1/2 tb My seasoning (follows)
      2 lb Scored flank steak
 
  Here is my daughter's favorite recipe.  I have been making London
  Broil this way almost as long as I have been married, and that is
  over 30 years. Melt butter in skillet. Cook and stir onions and 1/4
  tsp salt in the butter until onions are tender. Keep warm over low
  heat. Stir together salad oil, lemon juice, garlic, 1/2 tsp salt and
  the pepper; brush on top side of meat. Set oven control at broil
  and/or 550~ degrees.
   Broil meat 2-3 inches from heat about 5 minutes or until brown. Turn
  meat; brush with oil mixture and broil just until rare, 5 minutes
  longer. Cut meat across grain at a slanted angle into very thin
  slices; serve with onions.   NOTE: A can of mushrooms can be added
  with the onions. Brisket meat can be substituted for the flank steak.
  My Seasoning: 1 part garlic powder, 1 part onion powder, 1/2 part
  ground black pepper. Mix well before adding to recipe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SIRLOIN STEAK WITH GRILLED BELL PEPPERS 1H16
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Top sirloin steak, cut 1 1/4
      1    Large green, red, and yelloe
      1 tb Oil
      1 tb Lemon pepper
      1 ts Salt
 
  Calories     per serving: 201 Fat grams per serving: 9g Approx. Cook
  Time: 20 Cholesterol  per serving: 76m Cut peppers in half
  lengthwise; trim and remove seeds.
   Cut each half into thirds.  Combine oil and lemon pepper; brush over
  peppers. Place beef top sirloin steak and peppers on grid over
  ash-covered coals. Broil 16 to 20 minutes, turning steak once and the
  peppers occasionally.  Season steak and peppers with salt. Carve
  steak into thin slices and serve with grilled peppers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CAPTAIN'S TABLE ROLLED ROAST
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -ELAYNE CALDWELL KVNH17B
      5 lb Rolled roast

MMMMM------------------------THE MARINADE-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Lime juice
    1/4 c  Dijon mustard
    1/2 c  Chablis
      1 tb Chopped fresh tarragon
      1 tb Chopped fresh dill
      1 ts Cumin
      1 tb Fresh ground black pepper
      6    Garlic cloves*

MMMMM-------------------------THE GLAZE------------------------------
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/3 c  Lite soy sauce
    3/4 c  Honey
      1 tb Fresh ginger; grated
      1    Large garlic clove, minced
      2 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 tb Crushed Thai chili peppers
 
  *Sliver the garlic cloves into 20-25 pieces. MARINADE: Combine first
  eight ingredients in a mixing bowl, stir well and pour into a durable
  plastic bag. With the tip of a sharp knife, penetrate the outer skin
  of the roast and insert the slivered garlic cloves. Add beef to the
  bag, seal and turn to thoroughly coat. Let stand a minimum of 1 1/2
  hours, turning several times. THE GLAZE: Add honey to sauce pan, heat
  gently. Add all other glaze ingredients, stir frequently. DO NOT
  BRING TO A BOIL! Remove from heat. PREPARATION: Preheat grill to
  minimum 325 degrees. Remove beef from marinade, reserve for future
  use. Set beef on rack. Insert meat thermometer so that probe is in
  the center of the meat. Cover with tinfoil tent and place on grill or
  spit. For rare meat, roast for 33 minutes per pound or up to an
  internal temperature of 140 degrees F. for rare meat, 160 degrees for
  medium. GLAZE after
  
  30 minutes. Remove foil for last 1/2 hour. Remove from grill and let
  stand for fifteen minutes before slicing thinly. Remaining glaze can
  be re-heated and used as a sauce. Garnish with greens and serve with
  asparagus and new small potatoes. FROM: "Blue Ribbon BBQ" by John
  Uldrich - ISBN #0-9622794-0-4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED BEEF KABABS
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -IRWIN SOLOMON   (JJGF65A)

MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      3 tb Corn oil
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Yellow mustard
      1    Clove garlic,minced
  1 1/2 lb Lean round steak,boneless
      1    Large green pepper
      4 oz Fresh mushrooms
      8    Cherry tomatoes
      1    Very large onion
 
     Make marinade by combining lemon juice,Worcestershire sauce,oil,soy
  sauce,mustard,garlic.Cut beef into 1" chunks,then put in
  marinade.Cover and marinate in refrigerator for 12 hours or more...
     Cut vegetables into chunks,making at least 8 pieces of each.Remove
  beef cubes from marinade,reserving marinade...
     On 4 medium or long skewers,alternate pieces of meat and
  vegetables.Grill over hot coals,basting occasionaly with marinade,for
  about 15 minutes,turning shewers regularly.(Allow 5 to 10 minutes
  longer for well done meat.).Serve hot.Makes 4 servings....
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BARBECUE BEEF SANDWICHES**XMXX58B*****
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill, Crockpot
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 lb Beef rump roast
      3 tb Flour
     15 oz Tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Onions-chopped
    1/3 c  Brown sugar, packed
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Beef instant bouillon
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
      1    Cl Garlic; chopped fine
      1 ts Dry mustard
           Hamburger buns
 
  Rub flour into roast. Place in bottom of crockpot and add remaining
  ingredients, except buns. Cook on low for about 14-16 hours. Serve
  over buns.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BARBECUED MEAT PATTIES *** CATHY LIGHT
 Categories: Main dish, Bbq/grill, Sandwich, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 lb Ground meat
      1    Egg
      2 tb Finely chopped onion
      2 tb Finely chopped green pepper
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Tomato ketchup
      2 tb Half-half
      1 tb Cornstarch

MMMMM------------------SNAPPETIZERSY BASTING S-----------------------

MMMMM-----------------------------C----------------------------------
    1/2 c  Ketchup,
    1/4 c  Water and
      1 tb Lemon juice.

MMMMM-----------------------------A----------------------------------
      1 tb Brown sugar,
      1 tb Worcestshire sauce and a
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce.
 
  Stir to blend well. Add dash salt and black pepper. In a large mixing
  bowl, combine ground meat, egg and onion. Add green pepper, soy
  sauce, and ketchup. Mix half and half and cornstarch. Add to meat
  mixture, mixing to blend well. Form portions of meat to even, rather
  thick meat patties. Place patties on preheated barbecue grill. Broil
  3 to 4 inches from source of heat, basting with sauce and turning
  patties over from time to time for even browning. Grill 12-15 minutes
  total or to your liking- time depends on how well you like your meat
  done. Serve meat patties on hamburger buns, if you like, or with
  French Fries. Serve reMain dishing sauce alongSide dish. Makes 4
  servings From: Great American Recipes 12-11
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHAR-BROILED RIB EYES
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Rib Eye Steaks, 1" thick
    1/2 lb Butter
      1    Lemon
           Hot sauce to taste
      1 lb Mushrooms; sliced
           White onions; sliced
           Bell peppers; sliced
           Tomatoes; sliced
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Prepare ahead of time lemon sauce by melting butter and juice of one
  lemon, peel of 1/2 lemon and a dash of hot sauce. Wrap Mushrooms,
  peppers, onions, and tomatoes and garlic in a wire grill that closes
  to hold them. Put on grill, basting with lemon sauce and turning
  frequently. When almost done, Move to coolest area of grill surface.
  On hottest part of fire, put steaks on for five minutes about 2
  inches from coals. Baste with lemon sauce and turn over.  Grill for
  another 5 minutes for rare (total 10), 10 minutes for medium (total
  15, 15 minutes for well done (total 20). Turn again and again as
  needed, basting as you please. Put on platter and dump vegetables
  over. Put remaining lemon sauce over top and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BARBEQUED PORK RIBS/CURRANT GLAZE - GWHP32A
 Categories: Main dish, Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt
      3 lb Pork loin back ribs or
  1 1/2 lb Spareribs
           Glaze
    1/2 c  Red currant jelly
      3 tb Orange juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Dijon mustard
           Thin orange slices,garnish
 
  COMBINE THE FIRST FIVE INGREDIENTS AND RUB ONTO THE MEATY SIDE OF THE
  RIBS. COVER AND REFRIGERATE FOR 2 HOURS. AN HOUR OR SO BEFORE
  SERVING, START COOKING RIBS 10 TO 12" FROM COALS (OR UNDER BROILER)
  TURNING FROM TIME TO TIME. PORK WILL TAKE 60 TO 70 MINUTES TO COOK
  DEPENDING ON THEE THICKNESS. MEANWHILE, HEAT TO COMBINE RED CURRANT
  JELLY, ORANGE AND LEMON JUICE WITH MUSTARD. BRUSH RIBS FREQUENTLY
  WITH THE GLAZE DURING THE LAST 15 MINUTES OF COOKING. GARNISH WITH
  ORANGE SLICES.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHASHLIK CAUCASIAN - FROM THE RUSSIAN TEA ROOM
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Bbq/grill, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Lisa Hlavaty FDGN81A
      2 lb Boneless lamb; cut into
           -2 inch cubes
      1 c  Cooking oil
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Dillweed
      1    Small clove garlic; minced
      4    Celery tops;coarsely chopped
      3    Tomatoes; quartered
      2    Onions; cut in wedges
      2    Green peppers; cut in 1"
           -squares
           Hot cooked rice
 
  Place lamb in large bowl or shallow dish. In screw top jar combine
  oil, lemon juice, salt, pepper, bay leaf, dill, garlic, and celery.
  Shake well and pour over the lamb. Cover and marinate in refrigerator
  for 6 to 8 hours or overnight, stirring occasionally. On each of 4
  long skewers, thread lamb, tomato, onion, and green pepper; repeat,
  using 4-5 cubes of lamb on each skewer. Grill shashlik over medium
  coals 12-16 minutes, turning once. (or, place shashlik on rack in
  shallow baking pan, 4 inches from broiler. Broil 10 minutes, turning
  once, for medium rare.) Brush meat and vegetables with additional
  marinade, if desired.
   Serve on a bed of hot cooked rice. If desired, garnish with fresh
  dill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vidalia Barbecue Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -Bland Farms Promo
           Juice of 1 lemon
      1 ts Salt
      3 ts Worcestershire sauce
      6 tb Sugar
      2 sm Bottles Catsup
    1/4 lb Butter
      1 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      4 tb Prepared mustard
      1 lg Vidalia Onion, chopped
           -fine
      1 ts Black pepper
 
   Mix all ingredients and simmer for l0-15 minutes. Complements any of
  your favorite barbecue meats.
  
   MM by Cathy Svitek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED BEEF KABABS-PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      3 tb Corn oil
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Yellow mustard
      1    Clove garlic,minced
  1 1/2 lb Lean round steak,boneless
      1    Large green pepper
      4 oz Fresh mushrooms
      8    Cherry tomatoes
      1    Very large onion
 
  Make marinade by combining lemon juice,Worcestershire sauce,oil,soy
  sauce,mustard,garlic. Cut beef into 1" chunks,then put in
  marinade.Cover and marinate in refrigerator for 12 hours or more...
  Cut vegetables into chunks,making at least 8 pieces of each.Remove
  beef cubes from marinade,reserving marinade... On 4 medium or long
  skewers,alternate pieces of meat and vegetables.Grill over hot
  coals,basting occasionaly with marinade,for about 15 minutes,turning
  shewers regularly.(Allow 5 to 10 minutes longer for well done
  meat.).Serve hot.Makes 4 servings....
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BBQ FLank Steak
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Gail Russick-DTGT60B

MMMMM--------------------PICNICS AND PARTIES-------------------------
      2 tb MUSTARD, DRY
    1/2 ts SALT
    1/4 ts PEPPER
    1/4 c  BROWN SUGAR, PACKED
      2 tb SOY SAUCE
      2 tb OLIVE OIL
      1    GARLIC CLOVE, CHOPPED
    1/3 c  LEMON JUICE
      2    FLANK STEAKS

MMMMM----------------YOUR LINK TO THE PHILLY.INQU---------------------
 
  WHISK TOGETHER FIRST 8 INGREDIENT IN BOWL TO MAKE BASTING SAUCE PLACE
  FLANK STEAKS IN SHALLOW PAN (FLANK STEAKS ARE BEST IF THEY ARE
  TENDERIZED FIRST). POUR SAUCE OVER STEAKS COVERING THEM WELL COVER
  AND REFRIGERATE FOR AT LEAST 2 HRS REMOVE STEAKS FROM BASTING SAUCE
  AND COOK THEM OVER GRILL FOR ABOUT 3-5 MIN PER SIDE BASTE WITH
  ADDITIONAL SAUCE AS DESIRED June the 6th at 01:01 pm
  
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/06 1:10 PM
  
  TO:      IRWIN SOLOMON   (JJGF65A) FROM: IRWIN SOLOMON (JJGF65A)
  SUBJECT: R-MM BBQ NO 9099999
  
  <PRO-TIL MENU>FI
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BEER-BE-CUED CHICKEN-PERDUE
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -The Perdue Chicken Cookbook
      1    Perdue chicken, halved
      1 cn Beer
      1 tb Dark molasses
      1 tb Onion juice
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Catsup
      1 ts Salt
 
    Make sauce of beer, molasses, onion juice, lemon juice, catsup and
  salt. Marinate chicken in sauce overnight. Cook on outdoor grill
  approximately 1 hour or until done, turning and basting with sauce
  every 10-15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BBQ FLANK STEAKS
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------PICNICS AND PARTIES-------------------------
      2 tb MUSTARD, DRY
    1/2 ts SALT
    1/4 ts PEPPER
    1/4 c  BROWN SUGAR, PACKED
      2 tb SOY SAUCE
      2 tb OLIVE OIL
      1    GARLIC CLOVE, CHOPPED
    1/3 c  LEMON JUICE
      2    FLANK STEAKS
 
  WHISK TOGETHER FIRST 8 INGREDIENT IN BOWL TO MAKE BASTING SAUCE PLACE
  FLANK STEAKS IN SHALLOW PAN (FLANK STEAKS ARE BEST IF THEY ARE
  TENDERIZED FIRST). POUR SAUCE OVER STEAKS COVERING THEM WELL COVER
  AND REFRIGERATE FOR AT LEAST 2 HRS REMOVE STEAKS FROM BASTING SAUCE
  AND COOK THEM OVER GRILL FOR ABOUT 3-5 MIN PER SIDE BASTE WITH
  ADDITIONAL SAUCE AS DESIRED
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PHILIPPINO PORK
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats, Filipino
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------PICNICS AND PARTIES-------------------------
      6    PORK STEAKS
    1/2 c  SOY SAUCE
    1/2 c  LEMON JUICE
      3    GARLIC CLOVES, CRUSHED
      1    BAMBOO SKEWERS
 
  BONE PORK STEAK AND CUT INTO 1/2 IN. STRIPS THREAD OR WEAVE ONTO
  BAMBOO SKEWERS MIX SOY SAUCE, LEMON JUICE, AND CRUSHED GARLIC IN 9 X
  13 BAKE DISH BE SURE TO DIP ALL SKEWERS IN MARINADE REFRIGERATE FOR
  SEV. HRS. OR OVERNIGHT HOT TORTILLAS OR RICE AND A TOSSED GREEN SALAD
  ROTATE BOTTOM SKEWERS TO TOP EVERY FEW HRS MAY BE EITHER BROILED OR
  BRILLED ABOUT 15 MIN SMALL SKEWERS MAY BE USED TO MAKE A GREAT
  APPETIZER BROIL AHEAD AND KEEP WARM IN OVEN
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot'n Spicy Shrimp HBWK07A
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
    1/2 c  Catsup
    1/3 c  Frsh sqzed lemon juice
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Gravy Mstr or Ktchn Bouquet
      1 ts Soy sauce
      1 ts Tabasco sauce
      2 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Dark brown sugar - packed
      1    Lemon cut in wedges
      2 lb Lge shrimp (20 - 25 count)
           Shelled and deveined
           Bamboo skewers - soaked 30
           Minutes in water to cover
 
  Combine all  ingredients except  shrimp in  a bowl and mix well; put
  shrimp in  a  zip-lock  plastic bag and pour marinade over; close bag
  and refrigerate for 24 hours, turning  several  times; remove shrimp
  from marinade and drain; thread on skewers with lemon wedges;
  broil/grill 4 to 5 inches from heat source for 3 to 5 minutes,
  turning and basting frequently, until  shrimp  are  done; DO NOT
  OVERCOOK! serve immediately with any remaining marinade. Makes 6 to 8
  servings. Posted by Chuck Ozburn. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Char-Broiled Shrimp HBWK07A
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Large fresh shrimp -
           Peeled and deveined
           With tails intact
      1 c  Olive oil
    1/3 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2    Cloves garlic - crushed
      1 ts Salt

MMMMM----------------YOUR LINK TO THE PHILLY.INQU---------------------
 
  Combine olive oil and remaining ingredients in a 13 X 9 X 2 inch
  baking dish; stir  well; add shrimp, stirring gently; cover and
  marinate in refrigerator for at least 8 hours, stirring occasionally;
  remove shrimp from marinade, using a slotted  spoon;  reserve
  marinade; place shrimp on water soaked skewers; grill over medium hot
  coals 3 to 4 minutes on each side, basting  frequently with marinade.
  DO NOT OVER COOK. 8 servings. Posted by Chuck Ozburn. MM:MK VMXV03A.
  the 6th at 11:55 am
  
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/06 12:11 PM
  
  TO:      IRWIN SOLOMON   (JJGF65A) FROM: IRWIN SOLOMON (JJGF65A)
  SUBJECT: R-MM BBQ RECIPES
  
  <PRO-TIL MENU>FI
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Herb Barbecued Shrimp HBWK07A
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Catsup
    1/2 c  White vinegar
    1/4    Lge lemon - seeded and
           Finely minced, incldg rind
      1 tb Gravy Mstr or Ktchn Bouquet
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Ground cumin seed
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
    1/8 ts Paprika
           Cayenne pepper to taste
      2 lb Lge shrimp (20 -25 count) -
           Shelled and deveined
           Bamboo skewers - soaked in
           Water for 30 minutes
 
  Combine all ingredients excep  shrimp in a small saucepan; simmer 15
  minutes,  stirring  frequently; thread shrimp, interlapping, on
  skewers; grill  4 to 6 inches from hot glowing coals, 3 to 5 minutes,
  turning and brushing frequently with lemon mixture; DO NOT OVERCOOK!
  Makes 6 to 8 servings. Posted by Chuck Ozburn. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BARBECUED COUNTRY STYLE PORK RIBS
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------PRODIGY BOARD----------------------------
      4 lb Country style pork ribs
      1 ts Salt
      1    Lemon; thinly sliced
      1    Onion; thinly sliced

MMMMM-----------------------BARBECUE SAUCE----------------------------
      2 tb Brown sugar; packed
      1 tb Salt
    1/4 tb Black pepper
  2 1/4 tb Chili powder
      1    Garlic; sml clove/mashed
      1 tb Lemon peel; grated
      6 tb Lemon juice
      6 tb Worcestershire sauce
  2 1/4 c  Catsup

MMMMM----------------YOUR LINK TO THE PHILLY.INQU---------------------
 
  Place ribs in large dutch oven or kettle with enough boiling water to
  coveR. Add 1 teaspoon salt, lemon and onion and cook 45 to 60 minutes.
  Meanwhile, to make sauce, combine brown sugar, 1 tablespoon salt,
  pepper, chili powder, garlic, lemon peel, lemon juice,
  worcestershire, catsup and 3/4 cup water in saucepan. Bring to boil,
  reduce heat and simmer about 20 minutes, or until sauce is reduced to
  about 4 cups. Drain ribs thoroughly, discarding lemon and onion
  slices. Brush drained ribs well with sauce and place over slow coals.
  turn every 10 minutes, brushing frequently with sauce. Cook 35 to 45
  minutes, or until done and well coated with sauce. Serve with extra
  sauce. June the 6th at 11:56 am
  
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 06/06 12:12 PM
  
  TO:      IRWIN SOLOMON   (JJGF65A) FROM: IRWIN SOLOMON (JJGF65A)
  SUBJECT: R-MM BBQ RECIPES
  
  <PRO-TIL MENU>FI
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED CHICKEN WITH ROSEMARY
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------WHOLE FAMILY COOKBOOK------------------------
           -Stuart Talkofsky-BSNX01A
  3 1/2 lb Chicken ;cut in half
      2 tb Fresh rosemary
      3    Garlic cloves ;peeled, crush
      1    Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  Place the chicken  in a large bowl with the remaining ingredients.
  Toss together until all is coated. Allow to marinate for 1 hour.
  Grill the chicken over medium low heat, about 25 minutes per side.
  Brush the chicken with the remaining marinade while grilling. The
  chicken is done when you pierce the bottom of a thigh and the juices
  run clear.
  
  From Frugal Gourmet Whole Family Cookbook by Jeff Smith p. 169
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: INFUSED OIL FOR GRILLING FISH
 Categories: Fish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------WHOLE FAMILY COOKBOOK------------------------
           -Stuart Talkofsky-BSNX01A
      2 c  Olive oil
    1/4    Lemon ;1/4 of 1 lemon peel
           ;only coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Basil leaves ;coarsely chop
    1/4 c  Parsely ;coarsely chopped
      3    Garlic cloves ;peeled,crush
 
  Combine all ingredients in a small bole or jar and allow to stand at
  room temperature for 2 hours.  Brush fish wiht the oil when grilling.
  The oil will keep for several days in the refrigerator.
  
  From Frugal Gourmet Whole Family Cookbook by Jeff Smith p.151
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORK CHOPS WITH BANANAS AND BACON
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Fruit, Bbq/grill, Caribbean
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Sheryl FGKG27A
      4    Pork chops, 1" thick
    3/4 tb Cumin
           Salt and pepper, to taste
      1    Lemon; juiced
      2 tb Butter; softened
      2    Large bananas
      6    Strips bacon
           Beer (opt)
 
  Combine the butter, salt, pepper and cumin. Rub into both sides of the
  meat. Saute' the bacon briefly, until some of the fat has rendered.
  Remove and drain. Peel banana's and cut into 1 1/4 chunks. Place on a
  dish and sprinkle with lemon juice. Slice the bacon in strips long
  enough to wrap around each banana slice. Place on skewers, threading
  through the bacon.... Place the pork chops on a hot grill, for 15
  minutes, turning once. Turn grill down to medium, adding the bacon
  and banana's; grill another 10 minutes, turning both the meat and
  banana's. Also good basted with beer, while the meat cooks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SWEET-SOUR BARBECUED RIBS
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
  1 1/4 c  Ketchup
    3/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Honey
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      4 ts Lemon Juice
      6 lb Back Ribs; Cut in small
           -serving pieces
      1 sm Onion
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
  Mix all ingredients except ribs. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring
  occasionally. Prepare a charcoal grill, and cook ribs for one hour
  over medium-hot coals, turning occasionally. Brush ribs with sauce.
  Turn and cook for 20 minutes or longer until done. Source: Recipes
  from the Birthplace of Bill Clinton, Wanda Powell. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORK CHOPS BARBECUE
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Mustard
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 sl Lemon
      1 md Onion; Sliced Thin
    1/2 c  Ketchup
      2 tb Worcestershire Sauce
    1/2 ts Liquid Smoke
      6    Loin Chops; 1/2" Thick
 
  Combine water, vinegar, sugar, mustard, salt, pepper, lemon and onion
  un a medium saucepan. Mix well and simmer for 20 minutes. Stir in
  ketchup, Worcestershire and liquid smoke. Place chops in a greased
  9x13x2" baking dish. Pour sauce over top. Bake at 350~ for 1 hour or
  until tender, turning once. Source: Recipes from the Birthplace of
  Bill Clinton, Wanda Powell. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SWEET AND SOUR PORK RIBS ***HJVS01B
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Pork spareribs
      1 c  Sweet and sour sauce

MMMMM--------------------SWEET-AND-SOUR SAUCE-------------------------
      1 c  Apricot preserves
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Soy sauce
 
  Find a great price on spareribs in the supermarket? Divide your
  purchase into three-pound portions and cook as in step 2. Cool, place
  in freezer bags and freeze until needed. While the grill is heating
  up, defrost the ribs in the microwave.
  ~------------------------------------------------------
  ~------------------ 1.  About 1/2 hour before cooking, prepare
  barbecue grill. 2. Cut pork between rib bones into serving-size
  portions. Place ribs meaty side down in 2- or 3-quart rectangular
  microwaveproof dish, with thicker portions toward outside of dish
  (overlapping ribs if necessary). Cover with wax paper and microwave
  on High for 5 minutes, then on Medium for 15 minutes. Turn ribs over;
  place less-cooked pieces toward outside of dish. Cover again and
  microwave on Medium for 15 minutes, or until tender. 3. Place ribs on
  grill over medium-hot coals.  (Coals should be ash-gray with no
  flame.) Cook for 10 minutes, turning once and basting with 1/2 cup
  Sweet-and-Sour sauce. Serve with remaining sauce. Per Serving: 747
  cal, 39 g protein, 40 g fat, 57 g carbohydrate, 160 mg cholesterol,
  306 mg sodium. SWEET-AND-SOUR SAUCE: (This sauce can be made and
  stored in the refrigerator for up to a month.) (This quick and easy
  sauce is wonderful with barbecued ribs and poultry.) 1. In 2-cup
  glass measure, combine all ingredients. 2. Microwave on High for 4 to
  5 minutes, stirring once, until boiling. Makes 1 cup. Per serving (1
        07/11/92        8:39 AM Tablespoon): 55 cal, 0 g protein, 0 g
  fat, 14 g carbohydrate, 0 mg cholesterol,
  
  46 mg sodium.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LUTHER'S BARBECUED RIBS-VOLTZ
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -ELAYNE CALDWELL KVNH17B
      5 lb Spareribs

MMMMM-------------------FLORIDA BARBECUE SAUCE------------------------
      2 c  Margarine or butter
      1 c  Cider vinegar
      1 c  Catsup
      6 oz Jar Prepared horseradish
      6    Limes or lemons (the juice)
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Hot pepper sauce
 
  PREPARE FLORIDA BARBECUE SAUCE: In a medium stainless-steel or
  enamelware saucepan melt margarine or butter slowly. Add vinegar,
  catsup, horseradish, lime or lemon juice, salt and Worcestershire and
  pepper sauces. Simmer uncovered 20 to 25 minutes to blend flavors.
  Use as basting sauce for pork, chicken or other meats and serve as a
  table sauce. Leftover sauce can be refrigerated and kept up to a
  week. NOTE: If using this sauce for chicken, lemons are better than
  limes; limes give a pleasant tang to pork and other meats.
  DIRECTIONS: Place ribs about 6 inches above hot coals. Brush lightly
  with sauce and brown on one side. Keep a water bottle handy when
  using this sauce as it causes flames to shoot up. Turn, brush again
  with sauce, and brown the other side.  Continue turning and basting
  every 10 minutes until ribs are done, about 1 hour. Check by cutting
  near bone in a center section.  If juices run clear or golden the
  ribs are done. Remove ribs to a platter. Cut into 1- to 3-rib
  sections and serve with any remaining sauce.
         FOOD AND WINE CLUB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/06 10:05 AM
  
  TO:      ELAINE RADIS   (BGMB90B) FROM: ELAINE RADIS (BGMB90B)
  SUBJECT: R-MM BARBECUE
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TEXAS PIT BARBECUE SAUCE (JFPH78B)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Tex/mexican, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Medium onion; chopped
      1    Clove garlic; minced
      2 tb Butter/margarine
    1/2 c  Ketchup
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Light brown sugar
      1 ts Prepared mustard
    1/2 ts Hot pepper sauce, (opt)
      1    Lemon or orange, (opt);
           Sliced
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Cook the onion and garlic in butter in a medium saucepan until
  tender. Add ketchup, water, vinegar, brown sugar, mustard, salt,
  pepper and hot pepper sauce. Bring to a boil. Remove from the heat
  and let stand for the flavors to mingle. At this point, a sliced
  lemon or orange can be added, or a bit of the juice of either. With
  this recipe, true Texans usually add their own SECRET INGREDIENTS
  which can include beer, wine, bourbon, bay leaves, chili powder,
  tomatoes, vegetable oil or fat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BERT'S SUPERB BARBECUE SAUCE (TMFR24A)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Cider Vinegar
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Sugar
      1 tb Prepared Mustard
    1/4 c  Butter or Margarine
      1    Thick lemon Slice
      1    Onion; sliced
    1/2 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 tb Salt
    1/4 ts Cayenne Pepper
    3/4 c  Heinz catsup
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
 
  In a saucepan, mix vinegar, water, sugar, mustard, butter, lemon,
  onion, and seasonings. Simmer, uncovered, 20 minutes. Add
  worcestershire sauce and catsup, bring back to a boil and its done.
  (Good Housekeeping CB, 1955) NOTE: I do not use cayenne or salt and
  always double this recipe. Into the double recipe, I add about 1/4 to
  1/3 cup brown sugar. This gives the sauce more of a sweet and sour
  taste. It is just excellent on Baby Back Ribs, which I simmer in
  water with a little vinegar, garlic and just a pinch of salt for
  about 30 minutes before barbequeing. Through trial and error, I have
  found that Heinz catchup is thicker and makes a "clingier" sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled or Broiled Zuchinni
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
      4 sm Zuchinni
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Lemon-pepper seasoning
        ds Garlic salt
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
 
      Wash, dry and halve lengthwise the zucchini and arrange in a
  single layer on a greased broiler pan or hinged grill. Score zucchini
  diagonally. Melt butter and add lemon-pepper seasoning and garlic
  salt. Brush on cut side of zuchinni. Sprinkle with cheese.  Broil 8
  minutes or grill until tender and cheese browns. No need to turn.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Zucchini
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
      2 lb Zucchini
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 sm Onion; finely chopped
      4 tb Butter
           Freshly ground pepper
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Parsley; chopped
           Salt; if needed
 
      Scrub zucchini and cut off ends.  Grate and put in colander. Toss
  with 2 tsp salt and let drain at least 1/2 hour. When ready to cook,
  drain well in a paper towel to remove all liquid. Melt butter in a
  large skillet. Saute onion over low heat until soft.  Raise heat to
  medium high and add zucchini.  Stir and toss constantly for 3-4
  minutes, until cooked but still crisp.  Season with pepper, salt if
  needed, lemon juice and parsley. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Cauliflower and Zucchini
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
      1 bn Cauliflower; separated
      4 oz Butter
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Basil
      1 ts Oregano
      1 tb Onion, chopped
      3 md Zucchini; sliced 1/2" thick
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
 
       In large skillet cook cauliflowerets in boiling salted water
  about 5 minutes or until just tender. Pour off water and remove
  cauliflower. Melt butter in skillet; stir in salt, pepper, lemon
  juice, basil, oregano, and onion.  Add zucchini and cauliflower.
  Cover and cook over low heat for 10-15 minutes or until zucchini is
  tender. Remove from heat and toss with cheese
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: DIABETIC ONION DIP
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      8 oz Plain lo-cal yogurt
    1/2 x  Onions, finely chopped
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Parsley
      1 ds Hot pepper sauce
      1 ds Horseradish
      1 ds Salt and pepper
 
  Combine all ingredients.  Chill thoroughly. Yield: 1 1/2 C 1 serving
  = 1/2 milk, 1/2 veg Calories: 72
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON BAKED SOLE-DIABETIC
 Categories: Fish, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    (3-1/4 oz.) sole fillets
      2 ts Diet margarine, melted
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      2 ts Fresh parsley, chopped
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Paprika
 
  Rinse fillets thoroughly in cold water; pat dry with paper towels,
  and set aside.  Combine melted margarine and lemon juice in a small
  bowl. Combine flour, chopped parsley and pepper in a shallow
  container. Dip fillets in margarine mixture and dredge in flour
  mixture. Transfer fillets to a nonstick baking sheet, and drizzle any
  remaining margarine mixture over fish. Sprinkle fillets with paprika.
  Bake at 375 degrees F. for 15 to 20 minutes or until fish is golden
  brown and flakes easily when tested with a fork. NOTE:  If a crisper
  texture is desired, broil baked fillets 4 inches from heat for 1
  minute. Garnish each fillet with a lemon wedge and fresh parsley
  sprigs, if desired. PER SERVING: calories - 92, carbohydrate - 3 g.,
  protein - 16 g., cholesterol - 50 mg., fat - 1 g., fiber - 0, sodium
  ~ 79 mg. -- Exchanges - 2 Lean Meat FROM: All New Cookbook for
  Diabetics and Their Families by the University of Alabama at
  Birmingham copyright 1988
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PATE DIANA
 Categories: Appetizers, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Onions; chopped
      2 tb Shallots; chopped
    1/4 c  Apples; chopped, peeled
      1 lb Chicken livers; halved
    1/4 c  Apple wine or brandy
      3 tb Whipping cream
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Butter; clarified
           Apple slices (optional)
 
  Soften 10 tablespoons butter and set aside. Melt 3 of remaining
  tablespoons butter in skillet. Add onions and shallots. Cook until
  tender, stirring, about 5 minutes. Add chopped apples and cook until
  tender, about 3 minutes. Place apple mixture in blender. Melt
  remaining 3 tablespoons butter in skillet. Add chicken livers and
  stir 3 to 4 minutes until livers are browned outside and pink inside.
  Add wine and cook and stir 2 minutes longer. Transfer liver mixture
  to blender with apple mixture. Add 2 tablespoons cream and blend at
  high speed until smooth. Add more cream, if necessary, to make
  mixture smooth. Press through medium-fine strainer into mixing bowl.
  Cool thoroughly, stirring once or twice. (Pate will become oily if
  not completely cooled.) In another bowl, cream 10 tablespoons
  softened butter with electric mixer and add liver mixture, a little
  at a time, beating well after each addition. Stir in lemon juice,
  salt and pepper. Pour pate into crock or ramekins, smoothing top with
  spatula. Pour enough clarified butter over top to form seal. Store in
  refrigerator up to 1 week or freeze, in appropriate containers, if
  desired. Serve chilled and garnished with apple slices, if
  
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON NUTMEG SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Combine cornstarch, sugar and lemon peel in top of double boiler.
  Blend in water. Stir over low heat until thickened. Cook over hot
  water 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat; add
  remaining ingredients. Stir until butter melts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEAL IN APPLE-LEMON SAUCE
 Categories: Meats, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Don Fifield xkgr41a
  1 1/2 lb Veal scallops
    1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
      4 lg Apples; cut into 1/2-inch
           -slices
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 c  Mushrooms; thinly sliced
  1 1/2 c  Chicken stock
 
  Pat the veal dry with paper towels. Place between sheets of waxed
  paper and flatten with a mallet until about 1/8-inch thick. Dredge in
  the flour. Shake off the excess.
   In a 2-quart saucepan, cook the apples in the lemon juice until
  tender, about 5 to 7 min. Puree half of the apples in a blender.
  Reserve the remaining slices separately.
   In a lg nonstick frying pan, heat 1 tb oil. Add the mushrooms and
  saute until tender, about 5 min.  Remove with a slotted spoon and set
  aside.
   Add the remaining 1 tb oil to the pan. Saute the veal about 1 1/2
  min on each side. Remove the veal to a platter and keep warm.
   Add the stock to the pan and bring to a boil, scraping the bottom of
  the pan to loosen browned bits. Lower the heat, add the apple puree,
  and cook 2 to 3 min.
   Add the veal, mushrooms, and apple slices. Cook 5 minutes.
   The Healing Foods Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Sausage Pancakes With Cider Syrup **
 Categories: Breakfast, Meats, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      1    Egg
      1 c  Pancake mix
    2/3 c  Milk
      2 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Fresh apple; shredded
    1/2 lb Bulk pork sausage; browned
           - and drained

MMMMM------------------------CIDER SYRUP-----------------------------
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Pumpkin pie spice
      1 c  Apple cider
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Margarine or butter
 
  Heat griddle to 375~. In small bowl, beat egg on high speed until
  thick and lemon colored, about 5 minutes. Lightly spoon pancake mix
  into measuring cup; level off. Stir in pancake mix, milk, oil and
  cinnamon. Fold in apples and sausage. Grease griddle lightly before
  making each pancake. Pour batter from 1/4 cup measuring cup onto hot
  griddle. Bake until bubbles appear, about 2 minutes on each side.
  Serve with hot Cider Syrup.
   CIDER SYRUP: In medium saucepan, combine sugar, cornstarch and
  pumpkin pie spice; stir in apple cider and lemon juice. Cook,
  stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and boils for 1 minute.
  Remove from heat and stir in margarine.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Stuffed Mushrooms **
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 32 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
     32 lg Mushrooms, fresh
           Vegetable cooking spray
      3 tb Celery; finely chopped
    1/2 c  Apple; minced
      2 tb Fine, dry breadcrumbs
      1 tb Parsley, fresh; chopped
      2 tb Walnuts; finely chopped
           - toasted
      1 tb Blue cheese; crumbled
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  Clean mushrooms with damp paper towels. Remove stems; finely chop 1/3
  cup of stems, reserving remaining stems for another use. Set mushroom
  caps aside. Coat a small skillet with cooking spray; place over
  medium-high heat until hot. Add 1/3 cup reserved chopped mushroom
  stems and celery; saute 2 minutes or until tender. Combine celery
  mix, apple and next 5 ingredients in a small bowl; stir well. Spoon
    1-1/2 ts apple mix into each reserved mushroom cap. Place mushrooms
  in a 15x10" jelly roll pan; bake at 350~ for 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Fritters
 Categories: Breakfast, Side dish, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Eggs; separated
    2/3 c  Milk
      1 c  Flour; sifted
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Butter; melted
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Lemon; rind grated
      2 tb Sugar
      4    Apples or oranges, pineapple
           Figs or pears
 
  Sprinkle fruit slices of you choice with the lemon rind and sugar and
  let stand for 2 to 3 hours. Drain and dip in the thin Fritter Batter.
   Batter: Beat together with mixer, egg yolks, milk, flour, salt
  butter and lemon juice, ( I add 2 tbls sugar and dash of nutmeg) Fold
  in the stiffly beaten egg whites. Fry in deep fat 375~. Drain and
  serve hot with 10xsugar, or a sweet syrup or sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Stuffed Pork Chops With Apple Rings
 Categories: Meats, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Raisin bread; toasted crumbs
    1/2 c  Apple; diced; not peeled
    1/4 c  Pear; diced; not peeled
      2 tb Onion; minced
      1 tb Celery; minced
      1 tb Margarine; melted
    1/2 ts Sugar
           Salt and pepper to taste
           Ground sage to taste
      4    Butterflied boneless pork
           - Chops (about 1-1/4 inch)
      1 tb Margarine; melted
      2 tb Apple juice
      1 tb Water

MMMMM---------------------GLAZED APPLE RINGS--------------------------
      2 lg Cooking apples
      2 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Light corn syrup
 
  Combine first nine ingredients; stir well. Fill pockets of pork chops
  with stuffing mixture, and secure with wooden picks. Sprinkle chops
  with salt and pepper. Brown chops on both sides in 1 tablespoon
  melted butter in a skillet.  Add juice and water; cover, reduce heat,
  and simmer 55 minutes or until chops are tender. Arrange chops down
  the center of a serving platter; surround with Glazed Apple Rings.
  Garnish with fresh sage leaves, if desired.
   Apple Rings:  Core apples. Slice into 1/2-inch-thick rings; toss with
  lemon juice. Combine water, sugar, and syrup in a skillet; bring to a
  boil. Boil 2 minutes or until sugar dissolves, stirring constantly.
  Layer apple rings in skillet. Add any remaining lemon juice; reduce
  heat, and simmer 8 minutes or until rings are tender, turning once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir Fried Scallops & Apples
 Categories: Seafood, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Celery stalks; chopped
      1 lb Scallops; sliced
      2    Apples; peeled
      3 tb Margarine
           Lemon
 
  Coarsley chop celery, and slice scallops. Peel and quarter apples.
  Heat margarine in heavy skillet over high heat and stir fry celery
  for 2 minutes. Add scallops, sprinkling with juice from half the
  lemon. Coarsley cut apple pieces into mixture, stirring constantly,
  for another 2-3 minutes, adding more margarine if needed. Sprinkle
  with juice from remaining half of lemon, and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Saute With Apples *
 Categories: Poultry, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      4    Chicken breast halves;
           - boneless, skinless
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
      6 tb Butter; divided
      1    Onion; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Apple juice
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      1 lg Apple; cored, thin sliced
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Sour cream
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Sprinkle chicken with salt and lemon juice. In heavy skillet, melt 4
  tbls butter. Add onion and chicken. Brown until golden. Add apple
  juice and broth. Cover; cook until tender, about 15 minutes. Remove
  to platter; keep warm. In small skillet, melt remaining butter. Add
  apple slices. Sprinkle with brown sugar. Saute until tender crisp.
  Reduce chicken liquid in skillet to 2/3 cup. Add sour cream. Season
  to taste. Pour sauce over chicken. Place apple slices around edge of
  platter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Hot and Sweet Mustard***(TPBD20B
 Categories: Condiments, Dips/spread, Chinese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/8 c  Dry mustard  ; (3 1/4 oz ca
      1 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Emon juice
      2 ts Zest;  grated orange
      1 ts Zest ; grated lemon
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Place mustard in double boiler but not over heat.  Ad juices a lttle
  at a>> time, stirring after each addition to keep mustard from
  lumping. Odd zests. Heat covered over simmering water for 15 minutes,
  scrapping sides occasionally. Stir in honey, cinnamon and oil.
  Transfer to jars and refrigerate.  Check consistency after 1 day.
  Thin with a little water if needed.  Well keep well for up to 1
  month. Makes 2 cups. --Robbie
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOMEMADE HORSRADDISH SAUCE - (TXVF47A)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Condiments
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Horseradish ; grated with
      1 c  Sourcream
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 dr Tabasco.
 
  Horseradish is a root which is available in the produce department of
  many major supermarkets.  It is then grated and can be incorporated
  into several different sauces.  Try mixing 1/4 C grated horseradish
  with 1 C sourcream, 2t lemon juice and a drop or two of Tabasco. You
  can increase the horseradish and/or Tabasco for more intense flavor.
  FROM: D J MCINTYRE
    (TXVF47A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brochette Dijon Flambe *** (smcd91f)
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Condiments
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    GARLIC CLOVES, CRUSHED
      1 ts DRIED THYME
      2 tb LEMON JUICE
    2/3 c  PLUS 4 TBS. DRAMBUIE
      1 c  DIJON MUSTARD
      2 tb HONEY
      2 lb CHICKEN; 1 1/2 INCH CUBES
           SALT AND PEPPER
 
  IN SAUCEPAN, COMBINE GARLIC, THYME, LEMON JUICE AND DRAMBUIE. COOK
  OVER MEDIUM HEAT ABOUT 10 MINUTES UNTIL REDUCED SLIGHTLY. STIR IN
  MUSTARD AND HONEY AND SIMMER FOR A FEW MINUTES. SPRINKE CHICKEN WITH
  SALT AND PEPPER AND TOSS WITH MUSTARD MIXTURE. THREAD MEAT ON SKEWERS
  AND GRILL OR BROIL 8 TO 10 MINUTES ON EACH SIDE. FLAMBE BY HEATING 4
  TBS. OF DRAMBUIE UNTIL WARM.  LIGHT DRAMBUIE AND POUR OVER MEAT. THIS
  CAN ALSO BE MADE WITH AN EQUAL AMOUNT OF LAMB INSTEAD OF THE CHICKEN.
  I HOPE YOU ENJOY THIS CHICKEN RECIPE IN GOOD HEALTH, RACHEL. HAPPY
  HOLIDAYS AND SHALOM!!!! FROM: P FRISCHKNECHT       (SMCD91F)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOLLANDAISE SAUCE #1 (BDGM08B)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Microwave, Condiments
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Egg yolks
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Butter*
 
  *I admit it, I have used margarine, instead. Into container of
  electric blender measure yolks, juice, mustard & salt. Microwave
  butter (on HIGH) in glass measuring cup 1-2 minutes, until hot &
  bubbly. Turn electric blender to highest speed and GRADUALLY add
  butter, mixing well until Hollandaise is creamy and thickened. Serve
  over fresh asparagus, Eggs Benidict, Filet Mignon, etc.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOMEMADE TARTER SAUCE (FPNV92B)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Condiments
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2    Green onions
      2    Sweet pickles
      1    Dill pickle
    1/2 c  Pimento olives
      1    Clove garlic
    1/2    Lemon; juiced
      2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ds Worcestershire
      1 ds Tobasco
 
  Put onions, pickles, olives and garlic in a food processor and chop
  them fairly fine. Do not puree! Add the lemon juice, Worcestershire,
  Tobasco, and mayonnaise. Mix well and refrigerate. Will keep for
  several weeks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HUMMUS BI TAHINI (CHICK PEA AND SESAME PUREE)
 Categories: Dips/spread, Condiments, Greek
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Chick peas
      3 c  Water
    1/3 c  Tahini
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      2    Cloves garlic; crushed
           Salt

MMMMM------------------------FOR SERVING-----------------------------
           Parsley; chopped
      1 tb Olive oil
           Paprika or cayenne pepper
 
  1. Wash chick peas well, cover with the water and soak for 12 hours or
  overnight. 2. Boil gently for 2 hours in the water in which they were
  soaked, add 1 teaspoon salt and cook until very tender, about 3 hours
  in all. Drain and reserve some of the cooking liquid and 1 tablespoon
  of the peas. 3. Press peas through a sieve or food mill, adding about
  2 tablespoons of the cooking liquid to separate the last of the peas
  from the skins. 4. Slowly blend the tahini and most of the lemon
  juice into the puree. 5. Crush garlic with 1/2 teaspoon salt in a
  mortar and add to puree. Adjust flavour and consistency with lemon
  juice or cooking liquid and add salt if necessary. Hummus should be
  thick and smooth. 6. Spread in a shallow serving dish, swirling it
  with back of a spoon. Pour olive oil in centre and garnish with
  reserved chick peas, chopped parsley and a sprinkling of paprika or
  cayenne pepper. Makes 3 cups. Cooking time: 3 hours Blender or food
  processor method: Puree peas to separate skins, add to container or
  processor bowl with remaining ingredients, holding back some lemon
  juice and salt to adjust flavour. Blend or process until thick and
  smooth. Note: Even if using a modern appliance the chick peas must be
  separated from their skins for a successful hummus.
  
  Preparation time can be shortened by removing the skins either after
  the initial soaking, or after boiling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CIDER SYRUP (FDGN81A)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Condiments
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      2 c  Apple cider (not juice)
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Margarine
 
  Mix sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon and nutmeg in saucepan. Stir in apple
  cider and lemon juice. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil one
  minute. Blend in margarine. Serve warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FUNGHI RIPIENI CON LUMACHE LELLO+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Appetizers, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24    Med Size fresh mushrooms
           Washed, dried, stems removed
    3/4 lb Butter softened
     24    Escargot, canned
      2 tb White wine
           Salt and pepper
      3    Cl Garlic, peeled
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  EAST 54TH STREET, MANHATTAN WINE: GAVI TENUTA SAN PIETRO 1. Preheat
  oven to 350 F. 2. Saute mushroom caps in 4 tbs. of butter for 3 to 4
  minutes on each side or until golden brown. Set aside. 3. Saute
  escargots in white wine and 4 tbs. butter for 10 minutes. Salt and
  pepper to taste. Drain. Fill each mushroom cap with a snail. Place
  remaining butter, the garlic, and the lemon juice in a blender and
  make a paste. 4. Place a lump of paste on each mushroom and bake 10
  minutes on a baking sheet. Sprinkle with parsley. Brown under broiler
  and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEAL CUTLETS, MILAN STYLE:::GWHP32A
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 oz Veal cutlets; boneless
    1/4 c  Oil
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 c  Bread crumbs; dry
           Lemon wedges
 
  Place veal between sheets of waxed paper or foil.  With
  smooth-surfaced mallet or rolling pin pound to 1/4-inch thickness. In
  shallow dish beat eggs; place bread crumbs in second shallow dish.
  Coat cutlets with egg, then bread crumbs.  Gently press crumbs so
  they adhere. In heavy skillet heat oil and butter; add cutlets; fry
  about 1 minute per side or until golden brown and crisp. Drain on
  paper towels. Serve immediately with lemon wedges.  NOTE: Chicken or
  turkey cutlets can be substituted. Per serving: 427 cal, 26 g pro, 12
  g car, 30 g fat, 189 mg chol with butter, 314 mg sod
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORK PICCATA - WCDJ16B
 Categories: Meats, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 lb Pork tenderloin
    1/2 c  Salad dressing;or mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
      1 tb Parmesan cheese;grated
      1 tb Margarine
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1 tb Milk
      1 tb Capers; drained (optional)
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  Slice pork into 3/4" slices; pound to 1/4" thickness. Spread pork
  generously w/ 1/4 cup salad dressing. Combine crumbs & cheese. Coat
  pork w/ crumb mixture. Melt margarine. Add garlic; cook until tender.
  Reduce heat. Add pork; cook until meat is no longer pink. Combine
  remaining salad dressing, milk, capers & juice; mix well. Serve with
  pork. Serve w/ your favorite accompaniments. Makes 4 servings. LYNDA
  in TX POSTED: 07/13 3:45 PM FROM: LYNDA MCCORMICK (WCDJ16B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VITELLO ALLA FRANCESE:::GWHP32A (BATTER-FRIED
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Veal scallops
    1/4 c  Flour
      1    Egg
      2 tb Milk
      6 tb Butter
           Salt & pepper; to taste
           Lemon; juice only
      1    Lemon; in 8 thin slices
 
  I       tb  parsley;chopped fine Pound the scaloppine lightly with a
  flat mallet. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and dredge on both sides
  in flour. Beat the egg well and add the milk, salt, and pepper,
  blend. Dip the veal in egg to coat on both sides Heat the butter in a
  very heavy skillet and add the veal Cook about 2 minutes on one side,
  or until golden Turn and cook on the second side until golden.
   Remove the veal and add the lemon juice to the skillet. Pou this
  over the veal.  Garnish with lemon slices and sprinkle with parsley.
  Serve with Spaghetti with Marinara Sauce. Barb GWHP32A
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEAL FRANCESE SABATINO'S+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Eggs, lightly beaten
      1 c  Half & half
           Salt & pepper to taste
      2    Large pinches oregano
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
  1 1/2 lb Veal scaloppine,
           Pounded thin (enough for
     12 pn Pounded thin (enough for
      1 lb Dry bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      4 tb Butter
    1/4    To 1/2 cup flour
    1/2 c  Dry sherry
    1/4 c  Sweet marsala
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Chicken broth
     12    Thin slices prosciutto ham,
           Room temperature
     12    Thin slices lemon
 
  FAWN STREET, BALTIMORE WINE: BOLLA AMARONE 1. Mix together eggs,
  cream, seasonings, pars- ley & cheese. Dip the veal pieces into the
  bat- ter & then into the bread crumbs. Shake off the excess.2. Heat
  olive oil & butter in a large frying pan until hot. 3. Saute veal
  until crisp on both sides. Remove from skillet, add the flour to the
  pan drippings, enough to form a smooth paste, & stir until smooth.
  Pour in the sherry, Marsala, lemon juice & chicken broth. Bring to a
  boil. Season with salt & pepper. 4. Strain over cooked veal. Top each
  piece of veal with a piece of prosciutto ham & a thin slice of lemon.
  Serve. Note: Make sure the fat in the skillet is quite hot before you
  add the breaded pieces of veal, otherwise the crumbs will absorb the
  fat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CARPACCIO+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Beef tenderloin
      1    Med Onion, thinly sliced
      1    Stalk celery, thinly sliced
      2    Cl Garlic
    1/2    Lemon, thinly sliced
      2 c  Dry red wine
      2 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 c  Brown sugar
     12 pk Stems
    1/2    Orange, thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Capers
      2 tb Pickling spice
      2 tb Salt
           Leaf lettuce
           Finely chopped onion, capers
           Orange wedges,lemon slices
 
  W & S TEMPLE, SALT LAKE CITY. BEAULIEU CABERNET SAUVIGNON, 78 1.
  Remove all fat and tendons from the tenderloin. Place in the freezer
  to firm, 15 to 20 minutes. 2. Combine remaining ingredients in a
  non-aluminum pot. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer for 10
  minutes. Cool and strain. Discard solids. Reserve marinade. 3. With
  sharp knife or slicing machine, cut the tenderloin into paper thin
  slices. Arrange the tenderloin slices on a bed of lettuce. Place a
  small mound of finely chopped onions and capers in the center.
  Garnish with orange wedges or sliced lemon, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CARPACCIO TONY'S+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           1 lb. very lean, highest
           Quality raw beef
           Tenderloin
           1 egg yolk
           2 tsp. dijon mustard
           Seasoned salt & freshly
           Ground pepper
           2 tbs. fresh lemon juice
           1 c. italian olive oil
           2 tbs. finely chopped
           Shallots
           1 tbs. worcestershire
           Sauce (optional)
           Liquid hot pepper sauce
      1 tb Finely chopped capers
    1/2 c  Rice beef stock
 
  S. POST OAK, HOUSTON PULIGNY-MONTRACHET, 1977 OR 1978 1. Place beef in
  freezer until firm and in half frozen. Slice as thinly as
  possible.Refrigerate until needed.2.Make mayonnaise by preferrred
  method, or: place egg yolk in mixing bowl and add mustard, salt and
  pepper to taste. Add lemon juice. Start beating with a wire whisk or
  electric mixer and gradually add oil, bit by bit, until sauce begins
  to thicken, beating constantly. As mixture thickens, the oil may be
  added a little faster.3.Place shallots in cheesecloth and run under
  cold water. Squeeze to extract as much moisture as possible. Add
  shallots to the mayonnaise.4.To make the sauce- Stir Worcestershire,
  a dash of pepper sauce, capers and beef stock into mayonnaise. Make a
  little over 1 cup.5.Arrange overlapping slices of beef on plates and
  top with a spoonful of the sauce. Note: The meat must be of the
  highest quality & must be fresh. It should be very cold and partially
  frozen.If completely frozen it may become mushy and unpalatable in
  texture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BRACIOLE Il+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    (2 to 2-1/2 lb) round steak
           Butterflied
      1    Lemon's grated rind
           Salt and pepper
  2 1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 lb Prosciutto,thinly sliced
      2 c  Bread crumbs
    1/4 lb Parmigiano-reggiano
           Cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Chopped parsely
    1/2 ts Rosemary
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      4    Cl Garlic,finely chopped
      1    Sm Onion, diced
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      2 c  Chopped, canned pear
           Tomatoes with their juice
 
  PIKE STREET, SEATTLE WINE: BAROLO, CAVALOTTO, 1971 1.Open the
  butterflied steak and, with waxed paper covering it, pound evenly
  with a meat mallet until approximately 1/4 inch thick. Rub the lemon
  rind, salt, pepper, and 1-1/2 Tsp. oregano into the meat. 2.Lay the
  prosciutto slices evenly on the steak. Sprinkle the bread crumbs,
  grated Parmesan, & parsley evenly over the prosciutto slices. Roll
  the braciole tightly, taking care while rolling to tuck in both ends
  so as to hold in the filling while cooking. Tie the roll with strings
  at 1-1/2 to 2 in. intervals. 3.Rub the rosemary between your palms to
  break it up. Season the flour with the rosemary, remaining oregano,
  and salt and pepper. Rub this mixture onto the surface of the beef
  roll. 4.In a pan large enough to hold the roll, heat the olive oil
  over moderately high heat. Add the beef roll, turning to brown the
  entire sur- face. 5.Add the garlic and onion and cook until the
  garlic begins to turn golden brown.
  
  Add the wine and cook for one minute. 6.Add the tomatoes with their
  juice and salt & pepper to taste. Cover the pan and simmer over low
  heat for 1 to 1-1/2 hours or until very tender when pierced with a
  fork. If liquid app- ears to be diminishing during the cooking,
  splash a bit more wine into the pan. 7.Remove from pan & place on a
  heated platter. Remove the strings, cut into 1/2 in. thick sli- ces,
  pour the tomato mixture over the slices and serve. Note: If serving
  cold, place the braciole on a platter, pour the sauce over it, cover
  tightly with plastic wrap or foil, and refrigerate. Before serving,
  bring to room temperature, remove the strings, and cut into slices as
  mentioned previously. The slices can be served on a bed of lettuce,
  accompanied by freshly baked bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: COSTOLETTE ALLA VALDOSTANA+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 lb Val d'aosta
           Fontina cheese
      6    (1'' thick) veal chops
           Salt and pepper
  2 1/2 tb All-purpose flour
      1    Egg, well beaten
    1/2 c  Fine dry bread crumbs
    1/4 lb Unsalted butter
      3    Lemons, cut in wedges
           Parsley sprigs(optional)
 
  18TH STREET NW, WASHINGTON, DC BEVERAGE:GATTINARA 1. Slice the cheese
  thinly.  Cut a slit into the side of each veal chop to form a pocket.
  Stuff the pockets with the cheese. 2. Place the chops on a flat
  surface and press the top and bottom together.  Seal the edges by
  beating hard with a heavy knife or mallet.  Season lightly with the
  salt and pepper. 3. Dredge the chops in the flour, dip in the beaten
  egg, and coat with the bread crumbs. Melt the butter in a heavy
  skillet or saute pan. Add the chops and saute about 15 minutes or
  until golden brown on both sides. 4. Serve piping hot, surrounded by
  the lemon wedges and garnished, if desired, with a few parsley
  sprigs. Note: For this dish, you must obtain Val d'Aosta fontina. The
  Swiss variety will not be the same.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FILETTO SORPRESSO DON+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    4-oz.filets of beef
    1/4 ts Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      1    Cl Garlic,minced
      8    Sl Prosciutto ham
      4    Med Slices mozzarel-
           La cheese
      2 tb Thinly sliced truffles
           Or mushrooms
      1 ts Chopped fresh parlsey
      1 tb Grated romano cheese
      3    Eggs, well beaten
    1/4 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Fine bread crumbs
      3 tb Clarified butter
      2 tb Olive oil
           Juice of
      1    Lemon
    1/4 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Chicken broth
           Watercress or endive sprigs
           For garnish
 
  BEULAH RD, PITTSBURGH WINE: BORGOGNO BAROLO 1. Preheat oven to 375F.
  2. Horizontally slice each filet butterfly-style-leave one edge in-
  tact so filet is not completely cut through. Season with salt,pepper
  and garlic. 3. In cen- ter of each filet place 2 slices prosciutto,
  one slice mozzarella and several slices of truffle or mushrooms. 4.
  Close halves of each filet like a sandwich. Press meat together
  around edges to seal. 5. Beat parsley and grated cheese into eggs. 6.
  Dip meat into milk, then into bread crumbs and finally into eggs.  7.
  Heat butter and oil in saute pan until bubbling hot. Add filets and
  cook over low heat until nicely browned on both sides. 8. Drain off
  cooking fat. Add lemon juice,wine and chicken stock to skillet and
  place in pre- heated oven for approx. 10 minutes-less time is
  required for rare,
  
  longer for well-done. 9. Pour a little pan juice over each filet, then
  garnish with sprigs of watercress or en- dive.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEAL STUFFED APPLES SOGNI+++FGGT98B
 Categories: Meats, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Apples, peeled, cored
      6 tb Lemon juice, freshly
           Squeezed
    1/2    Pound veal, ground
    1/8 ts Salt
           Pinch of black pepper
      1    Rib celery, minced
      2    Sprigs parsley, minced
      1 tb Parmesan cheese, grated
    1/2 c  Raisins
    1/4 ts Sage
    1/4 c  Bread crumbs
    1/2 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
      1 c  Veal stock (see part 2)
      1 tb Honey
      1 tb Apple brandy
      4 tb Butter, melted
      6    Sprigs of parsley
           Veal stock:
  2 1/2 lb Veal knuckles, cut into
           2-inch pieces
      1    Large onion
      2    Leeks, washed, cut into 2-
           Inch pieces
      2    Carrots, sliced
      2    Ribs celery, sliced
      3    Sprigs parsley
 
  NORTH WELLS, CHICAGO WINE: CHIANTI CONTE CAPPONI 1977 1. Preheat oven
  to 350 F.  2.  Rub the apples with lemon juice. 3. Place veal, salt,
  pepper, celery, parsley, cheese, raisins, sage, crumbs, walnuts, and
  egg in a large mixing bowl and combine.  4.  Stuff core of apples
  with veal mixture and arrange in baking dish. 5. Combine Veal Stock,
  honey, apple brandy, and butter.  Drizzle over apples.  6.  Bake
  apples 20 minutes or until soft. Garnish with parsley, serve
  
  hot. Pine nuts may be substituted for the walnuts. They are the
  kernel of pine cone and resemble almonds somewhat in taste. VEAL
  STOCK: Cover veal bones with water in a large stock pot and bring to
  a boil. Add re- maining ingredients.  Simmer 2 hours.  Skim any foam
  that may arise to the surface. Strain stock through cheesecloth.
  Chill until needed.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp in Garlic Sauce (Ital.)MCDONALD (VTDD24
 Categories: Seafood, Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------BAKED PRAWNS WITH G-------------------------
      4    Cloves garlic, minced
  1 1/2 ts Dried oregano
     24    Uncooked prawns,shelled,deve
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Dry vermouth
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
           Salt & freshly grnd pepper
    1/4 c  Minced, fresh parsley
 
  Combine first 6 ingredients in medium saucepan and bring to a boil
  over medium-high heat, stirring frequently. Remove from heat. Taste
  and season with salt & pepper. Let cool. Arrange prawns in single
  layer in baking dish. Pour vermouth mixture over prawns. ====>>>> Let
  marinate at room temperature for 1 hour. Preheat oven to 375. Bake
  prawns, basting once or twice, until pink and translucent, about 15 -
  20 minutes. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Piccata SANDY HERZOG (GJTS45B)
 Categories: Poultry, Italian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Boned, skinned chicken breas
      1    Juice of 1 lemon
    1/2 lb Sliced mushrooms
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
           Oil
           Flour, salt, pepper
 
  Pound chicken breasts to about 1/4" thickness.  Dredge in flour, salt
  and pepper.  Fry quickly in oil.  Saute sliced mushrooms in same pan.
  Add juice of one lemon and the white wine. Boil down to about 1/2,
  then add back the chicken and heat until chicken is warm.
   -Sandy-N.C.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP & VEGETABLE PASTA (GTKG62A)
 Categories: Main dish, Italian, Seafood, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Lg shrimp; peeled & deveined
      2    Yellow peppers; 1/4" dice
      2    Red peppers; 1/4" dice
      6    Plum tomatoes; 1/2" dice
    1/2 c  Fresh dill; chopped
      2 ts Dried tarragon
      2 tb Chopped shallots
    1/2 ts Dried red pepper flakes
      1 ts Coarsely ground black pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Fresh lemon juice
      1 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts Hot chile oil
      1    Head broccoli; cut small
  1 1/2 c  Cooked peas
      1 lb Linguine
 
  At least 2 hours ahead, bring a large pot of water to a boil.
  Carefully drop in the shrimp and cook until just tender, 1 minute.
  Drain, rinse under cold water, drain again, and place in a large
  serving bowl. Add the peppers, tomatoes, dill, tarragon, shallots,
  red pepper flakes, black pepper, salt, lemon juice, 1 c olive oil and
  the chili oil to the serving bowl. Toss well with the shrimp. Cover
  and refrigerate. When you are ready to serve, bring a large pan of
  water to a boil. Drop in the broccoli and cook 1 minute. Drain and
  rinse under cold water, drain again. Toss the peas and broccoli with
  the shrimp and vegetables, set aside. Bring a large pot of water to a
  boil. Add the remaining 1 T olive oil and the linguine. Cook at a
  rolling boil until just tender. Drain the linguine and immediately
  toss with the shrimp and vegatable sauce. Serve at once. From: The
  New Basics Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ITALIAN BAKED FISH (KXMT69B)
 Categories: Main dish, Fish, Italian, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Flounder or sole fillets
      3 tb Low-cal Italian dressing
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Worchestershire sauce
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
           Salt and pepper
 
  Place fish in shallow baking dish. Combine remaining ingredients and
  pour evenly over fish. Marinate several hours in the refrigerator,
  turning the fish occasionally. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Bake fish
  uncovered for 30 minutes. Broil for 5 minutes, or until fish is
  crisped. Each Serving: 154 Calories, 29g Protein, 2g Fat, 3g
  Carbohydrates, 427mg Sodium, and 85mg Cholesterol. Light and Luscious.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BACCALA ALLA BOLOGNESE (BTVC62A)
 Categories: Main dish, Fish, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 3/4 lb Dried codfish
           Flour; for dredging
      4 tb Butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      1    Clove garlic; minced
      3 tb Fresh parsley; minced
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1    Lemon; juiced
 
  Put the cod in a deep dish, add cold water to cover, and let it soak
  for 2 days in the refrigerator in order for it to "plump" up and
  change the water several times. Rinse and dry the fish and cut it
  into 2-inch chunks. Dredge the fish in the flour, shaking off the
  excess. In a large skillet, heat 2 Tbl of the butter and the olive
  oil. Add the fish pieces and brown them well on all sides over
  medium-high heat. Sprinkle the fish with the minced garlic and
  parsley and stir the mixture gently. Cut the remaining 2 Tbl butter
  into bits and add it to the pan. Sprinkle the fish with salt and
  pepper and pour over the lemon juice. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN MARSALA #2 (PSWK86A)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Salsa/sauce, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Butter
      4    Chicken breast halves
      4    Shallots; finely chopped
    1/2 lb Mushrooms; sliced
    1/4 c  Dry Marsala
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  * Skin and bone the chicken breasts then, using the flat (smooth)
  side of a meat mallot, pound the breasts to 1/4 inch thickness. In a
  large frying pan, melt 2 T. butter over meduim heat. Add chicken and
  saute', turning once, until lightly browned about 2 minutes on each
  side. Remove and set aside. Melt remaining butter in pan. Add
  shallots and mushrooms. Cook until mushrooms are lightly browned, 3-5
  minutes. Add Marsala and bring to a boil, scraping up any browned
  bits from bottom of pan. Add cream and lemon juice and return to a
  boil. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Return chicken to pan and
  cook, turning in sauce, for about 3 minutes to reheat and finish
  cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP SCAMPI (JJGF65A)
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood, Pasta, Italian
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 lb MEDIUM SHRIMP; IN SHELLS
    1/4 c  BUTTER
      2    GARLIC CLOVES; CRUSHED
      2 tb FRESH PARSLEY; CHOPPED
      1 pn CAYENNE PEPPER
      1    LEMON; JUICED
 
  PEEL SHRIMP, LEAVING ON TAILS. Heat the butter, oil and garlic in a
  broiler proof pan. Stir in the parsley, cayenne, and lemon juice. Add
  the shrimp, tossing to coat. Place under the broiler 6" from heat,
  and broil until done, about 5 minutes. Check half way through the
  cooking time and turn shrimp as necessary. Serve with crusty bread
  for dipping in the sauce. A Nathalie Dupree recipe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MAMMA'S CHICKEN CHICKEN ***FGGT998B
 Categories: Poultry, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Chickens, cut up in serving
           Pieces
      1 c  Lemon juice
      2 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
      1    H
      2 tb Grated cheese
      1    Sliced onion
           Olive oil
 
  Dip chicken in lemon juice, and then roll in seasoned bread-crumb-and
  cheese mixture. In a baking dish, place onion in and around chicken.
  Sprinkle with olive oil and bake in preheated 350~ degree oven for 1
  hour, uncovered. Serve immediately. VARIATION: POTATOES--You take 4
  potatoes, peeled and cut in sixths lengthwise.
   Rub a little olive oil on each piece, dip in seasoned bread crumbs
  mixed w/cheese and place between chicken pieces. You can even cook
  the potatoes in a baking dish of their own at 350~ degrees for 1
  hour. They are a perfect accompaniment to roast beef, veal, or pork.
  Kids love them because they're like a giant French fry. SOURCE: Eat
  This, It Will Make You Feel Better, by Dom Deluise
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP SCAMPI PRIMAVERA *** vbff60a
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Spaghetti
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Lemon peel ; (finely choppe
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp ; med, cleaned
      2 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Basil
 
  Cook and drain spaghetti as directed on package.
   Meanwhile,  heat oil in large skillet and saute garlic and lemon peel
  about 30 sec- onds. Add vegetables and shrimp; cook and stir over
  medium heat until shrimp turns pink (5 to 7 min).Sprinkle with lemon
  juice, salt and pepper. Stir in basil & parsley. Spoonover pasta and
  toss well. MICHAEL GROSZ
    (VBFF60A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Clams Oregatana Basilico  *** (nbhx19b)
 Categories: Seafood, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     36    Clams
    2/3 tb Dry white wine
           Stuffing:
  3 1/2 c  Fresh bread crumbs
      1 tb Fresh basil
      1 tb Oregano
      2 tb Grated romano cheese
      2 tb Minced fresh italian
           Parsley
           Juice of
    1/2    Lemon (approx. 2 Tab)
      1 tb Minced garlic
 
  Preheat oven to 500 F Shuck clams and replace   meat on half-shells.
  Pack about 1 heaping tbs.stuffing on each. Bake in preheated oven for
  about 10minutes. Remove from oven and sprinkle each clam with a few
  drops of wine. Return to oven and bake 2 to 3 minutes more, or until
  lightly browned. Stuffing: Combine all ingredients by mixing with
  hands. Use more olive oil if the mixture seems too dry. 12/23 10:38
  Al A.Green14 on GEnie (Weird Al) Richmond VA
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Osso Buco *** (gknm89a)
 Categories: Main dish, Italian, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
           Salt and freshly ground pepp
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      4 tb Butter
      2    Onions; chopped
      6    Lg cloves garlic; chopped
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
     28 oz Can plum tomatoes
      2 c  Dry white wine
      2 c  Beef stock; ( homemade or ca
    3/4 c  Fresh parsley; chopped
      1    Grated zest of two lemons
 
  5 - 6   lb veal shank; 2" thick 1. season flour with salt and pepper,
  dredge pieces of veal in it and shake off excess. 2. Heat oil and
  butter in lg dutch oven, and quickly sear the veal over med-high
  heat, browning well on all sides. Transfer veal to paper towels to
  drain. 3. Add the onions, garlic, basil, and oregano to the pan and
  cook over med heat for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. 4. Add the
  tomatoes, salt and pepper to taste and continue to cook for 10 min.
  Skim off any fat. 5. Add the wine, raise the heat, and bring to a
  boil; Reduce the heat and simmer, uncovered for 15 min. 6. Return the
  veal to the pan and add just enough stock to cover the meat.  Cover
  and let simmer for 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Or bake in 350 degree oven for
  the same time. Remove lid and continue to simmer or bake for 1/2 hour
  till veal is tender. 7. Just before serving, sprinkle with the lemon
  zest and parsley. It is traditional to serve this with risotto
  Milanase. It has been suggested that I try ( and I will!) small
  potatoes, tossed with some olive oil and garlic or any kind of pasta
  treated the same way. Let me know if you try it and what you think!
  FROM: SUSAN DE BONIS (GKNM89A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON SWEET AND SOUR SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Chinese
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           JANE HARRIS  DXDG05A
      1 ts Lemon peel;grated
      1 tb Oil
      2 tb Sugar
      2    Lemon juice;from 2 lemons
      6 tb Water
      1 ts Cornstarch
 
  saute peel in oil add sugar juice of 2 lemons mix cornstarch with
  water and add to mixture cook over medium heat till smooth and thick
  this is excellent with chicken.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LOMI LOMI SALMON SPREAD DXDG05A
 Categories: Asian, Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    8 oz pkg cream cheese
      1    3 oz pkg smoked salmon,
           -cut into small pieces
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Chopped onion
      1 tb Green onion top thinly slcd
 
  1. Combine cream cheese salmon, lemon juice, and onion 2. Mix well,
  sprinkle with green onions 3. Serve with crackers or melba toast
  Posted by Jane Harris. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PHOENIX ROLLS (BANH PHUONG HOANG)
 Categories: Vietnamese, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - Jane Harris DXDG05A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
      2    Fileted  chicken breast
     10    Pieces of ham 2" by 1/2"
    1/4 lb Shrimp
      2    Green onions minced
      2 ts Lemon grass minced (fresh)
           Salt
           Black pepper
           Cornstarch
      1 c  Cooking oil
 
  1. Cut each chicken breast into 5 thin slices 2. Place shrimp in
  mortar and smash into a paste, add onions, lemon grass, salt and
  pepper continue mashing until you have a paste 3. Lay chicken fillet
  on flat surface, place a piece of ham on 1 end, top ham with 1/10 of
  shrimp mixture 4. Roll up , dip in cornstarch and fry in oil until
  golden. I have never tried this without the ham, but it seems like it
  might work. Dgeign
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHINESE CHICKEN LIVERS* DXDG05A
 Categories: Chinese, Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      8 oz Chicken livers cut in half
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Soy
    1/2 c  Flour
    3/4    Onion, finely minced
      3 tb Vegetable oil
 
  *Ling Mun Gai 1. Combine lemon juice and soy sauce, pour over livers
  and refrigerated over night 2. Drain livers and dredge in flour 3.
  Heat oil in wok.  Fry livers and onions together until livers are
  golden brown Posted by Jane Harris. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORK & OYSTER EGG ROLL FILLING
 Categories: Chinese, Appetizers, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - Jane Harris DXDG05A
    1/3 lb Ground pork
      3 tb Soy sauce
      4    Green onions finely chopped
      2 pt Oysters shucked liq resrved
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Sherry
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Onion finely chopped
      8    Fresh mushrooms chopped
           Black pepper to taste
      1    Red pepper diced
      1 tb Crushed pineapple
    1/2 ts Sesame oil
 
  1. In food processor combine pork, soy, scallions oysters, lemon
  juice and sherry, grind breifly 2.Heat vegtablbeoil in wok or fry
  pan, 3. Add pork mixture, onions, mushrooms, pepper, red pepper, stir
  fry 1-2 min, add pineapple and reserved liquid 4. Continue cooking 1
  min 5. Drizzle on sesame oil 6. Cool and make egg rolls
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VIETNAMESE FIVE SPICE CHICKEN
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Vietnamese, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -DXDG05A

MMMMM---------------------FOR SPICED SHERRY--------------------------
    1/3 c  Five spice powder
      1 c  Sherry

MMMMM-------------------FOR FIVE SPICE CHICKEN------------------------
      1 oz Garlic; minced
      1 oz Onion; minced
      4 ts Spiced wine
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts MSG
      5 tb Thin soy sauce
      2 tb Thick soy
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Oil
      1 ts Sesame oil
      1    Chicken

MMMMM----------------------FOR LEMON SAUCE---------------------------
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      1 ts Vinegar
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
   Ruou Ngu Vi Huong (spiced Sherry) This condiment is the secret to
  Five Spice Chicken. To make this combine, 1/3 Cup five spice powder,
  and 1 Cup sherry. Mix well and store in a sterilized jar. Ga Nuong
  Voi Ngu Vi Huong (five spice chicken) 1. Wash and dry chicken 2.
  Combine garlic, onion, 2 t spiced sherry, salt, cloves, MSG, 1 T thin
  soy, and 1 t thick soy. Rub inside chicken.
   3. Place the chicken in a bowl and pour the remaining sherry and soy
  over the chicken. 4. Marinade for 2
  
  hours, basting every 20 minutes. 5. Heat oven to 400F.
   6. Place the chicken on a roasting pan grid and bake for 10 minutes,
  brush with marinade, reduce the temperature to 350F bake for 45 more
  minutes, basting every 15 minutes.
   7. Combine oils, and brush on chicken.
   6. Cook another 20 minutes or until chicken is done. Serve with lemon
  sauce and a green salad.
   Lemon sauce: Combine ingredients and mix well. Ladle mixture into
  individual bowls.
   From the House of Dgeign
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: EGGROLL FILLING #2 (DXDG05A)
 Categories: Chinese, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Jane Harris (DXDG05A)
           -Posted on *P on 9/10/92

MMMMM----------------------PORK AND OYSTER---------------------------
    1/3 lb Ground pork
      3 tb Soy sauce
      4    Green onions;
           -finely chopped
      2 pt Oysters; shucked,
           -liquid reserved
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Sherry
      1 tb Vegatable oil
      1    Onion; finely chopped
      8    Mushrooms; chopped
           Black pepper to taste
      1    Red pepper; diced
      1 tb Crushed pineapple
    1/2 ts Sesame oil
 
  1. In food processor combine pork, soy, scallions oysters, lemon
  juice and sherry, grind breifly 2.Heat vegtablbeoil in wok or fry
  pan, 3. Add pork mixture, onions, mushrooms, pepper, red pepper, stir
  fry 1-2 min, add pineapple and reserved liquid 4. Continue cooking 1
  min 5. Drizzle on sesame oil 6. Cool and make egg rolls Dgeign
  
     Formatted for MM by Elayne Caldwell -KVNH17B
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fricassee de Poulet au Chablis
 Categories: Poultry, Rice, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
  3 1/2 lb Roasting chicken; cut into
           -serving pieces
           Salt and white pepper
      8 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour; heaping
      1 cl Garlic; crushed
      1 c  Chablis
      1 c  Chicken stock
      2    Shallots; chopped
           Bouquet garni made of
      4    Parsley sprigs
      1    Bay leaf; tied together
      2    Egg yolks
      3 tb Heavy cream
      1 tb Sweet butter
     15 md Fresh mushrooms; lightly
           -poached in a little water
      1    Lemon; juice only
 
  Season the chicken with salt and pepper and cook them in a hot butter
  in a saucepan broud enough to hold them in 1 layer. Turn the pieces
  to brown them lightly on both sides. Sprinkle the chicken with the
  flour and garlic. Moisten with the chablis and stock. The chicken
  should be just covered with these liquids. Add the shallots and the
  bouquet garni, cover and cook in a 350~ oven for about 30 minutes, or
  until the chicken is tender. Arrange the chicken on a deep serving
  dish and keep them hot. Reduce the sauce to about half over higih
  heat and thicken it, off the heat with the egg yolks beaten with the
  heavy cream and butter. Add the lemon juice and the cooked mushrooms.
  Reheat, taste for seasoning and serve the chicken with the sauce and
  rice. Source: Timmes-Picayune, Marcelle Bienvenu (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettuccine al Carciofi
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      4 lg Artichokes
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 qt Water
      3 tb Butter; divided
      6 oz Prosciutto; thin julienne
           -strips
      3    Shallots; minced
      1    Sweet red pepper; chopped
      2 lg Cloves garlic; minced
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Heavy whipping cream
    1/2 c  Prepared pesto
           Salt and pepper to taste
      1 lb Fresh fettuccine; cook al
           -dente, drain
    1/4 c  Toasted pine nuts
    1/2 c  Parmesan; grated
 
  Bend back outer green petals until they sanp off easily near the base.
  Continue to snap off and discard petals until central core of pale
  green petals is reached. Trim outer dark green layer from base. Using
  stainless steel knife to minimize discoloration, cut of top 1/3 of
  petals; discard. Cut stem level with base. Halve each artichoke and
  slice each half into fourths, removing the hairy choke with a small
  knife. Place in mixture of lemon juice and water while working on
  remaining artichokes to retard discoloration. Melt 2 tb butter in
  large skillet; saute artichokes, add 2 tb water,, cover and simmer
  for 5 to 10 minutes or until tender. Melt remaining butter in large,
  heavy saucepan; saute prosciutto, shallots, pepper and garlic for 5
  minutes or until pepper is tender. Add wine and boil for about 3
  minutes or until reduced by half. Mix in cream and pesto. Cook for
  about 5 minutes or until sauce thickens. Salt and pepper to taste.
  Keep sauce warm.
  
  Place pasta in large serving bowl and top with cooked artichokes. Pour
  sauce over top. Add Parmesan and toasted pine nuts. Toss to mix well.
  Serve immediately. Source: Times-Picayune (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Juice Roast *** BGMB90B@
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Chuck; boneless
      2    Onion; sliced
      2 tb Butter or shortening
      1 c  Apple juice
      1 tb Catsup
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Thyme leaves
    1/4 ts Prepared mustard
    1/8 ts Basil leaf
      3    Sweet potatoes *
           Lemon juice
           Garnishes:
           Chopped parsley or
           Apple ; rings
           Gravy
 
  Sweet potatoes should be pared and cut into pieces. Cook onions in 1 T
  butter or shortening in Dutch oven until tender-crisp; set aside.
  Brown roast in remaining butter or shortening in Dutch oven over
  medium heat 15 to 20 minutes or until browned on both sides. Pierce
  entire surface of meat with fork. Combine apple juice, catsup, salt,
  pepper, thyme, mustard and basil; add to meat.  Top meat with
  reserved cooked onions; cover and cook slowly 2 1/2 hours or until
  almost tender. Brush sweet potatoes with lemon juice for bright
  color; add to meat. Continue cooking, covered, 30 to 40 minutes or
  until meat and potatoes are tender. Place meat and potatoes on warm
  platter. Sprinkle potatoes with chopped parsley or garinish with
  apple rings and parsley, if desired. Serve gravy over sliced meat.
  NOTE: After apple juice mixture is added to browned meat, it may be
  marinated in the refrigerator until 3 to 4 hours before serving time;
  turn meat several times. If Dutch oven is cast iron, transfer to a
  glass dish. GRAVY: Skim excess fat from cooking liquid; add water if
  
  needed to make 1 1/2 cups.  Mix 1/2 cup water and 2 T Unbleached
  Flour; stir gradually into cooking liquid.
   Heat to boiling; cook, stirring 3 to 5 minutes. Season with salt and
  pepper, if desired.  Gravy may be served in Large Apple that has been
  scooped out, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SINGAPORE SATAY (1 of 2)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
           -INGREDIENTS:
           -MARINADE:
      2 ts Curry powder
      2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Coriander
    1/4 ts Cumin
      3 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Oil
      1    Garlic clove; minced
           -CHICKEN:
      1 lb Boneless skinless chicken
           -breasts or thighs, cut into
           -3/4-inch pieces
     24    (6-inch) bamboo skewers
 
  Directions are in part 2 of this recipe set.
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SINGAPORE SATAY (2 of 2)
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           -Dorothy Cross TMPJ72B
           -PEANUT SAUCE:
    1/2 c  Water
    1/3 c  Creamy peanut butter
      1    Small garlic clove; minced
      1 tb Brown sugar
    1/8 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
  1 1/2 ts Soy sauce
    3/4 ts Lemon juice
           -Directions:
 
  In medium bowl, combine all marinade ingredients; add chicken. Stir to
  coat. Cover; refrigerate 2 hours, stirring occasionally. Soak bamboo
  skewers in water at least 30 minutes. In medium saucepan, coimbine
  water, peanut butter and garlic. Cook over medium heat until mixture
  boils and thickens, stirring constantly. Remove from heat; stir in
  remaining peanut sauce ingredients. Cool to room temperature before
  serving. Heat grill. When ready to barbecue, drain chicken, reserving
  marinade. Thread 4 to 6 pieces of chicken on each skewer. Place
  skewers on gas grill over low heat or on charcoal grill 4 to 6 inches
  from medium coals. Cook 8 to 12 minutes or until chicken is no longer
  pink, turning occasionally and brushing with reserved marinade.
  Discard any remaining marinade. Serve with peanut sauce. 16 to 24
  appetizers.
  
  COMMENTS:  Try this Indonesian favorite, with a spicy peanut sauce.
  Can be served as an appetizer or snack but can also be served as a
  main dish.
  
  Nutrition info per serving: 1 appetizer 60 calories, 3 grams fat, 18
  mg cholesterol and 75 mg sodium. Source: Pillsbury Classic Cookbooks
  ~ July, 1993
  
   Reformatted for Meal Master by: CYGNUS, HCPM52C & C.MINEAH
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sicilian Rice    Philly.Inq. JJGF65A
 Categories: Rice, Italian, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Anchovy filets
  1 1/2 c  Long grain rice
      1    Onion,finely chopped
      5 tb Olive oil
      1 tb White wine vinegar
    2/3 c  White wine
      3    Lemons for juice
    1/2 ts Mustard
    1/2 ts Tomato paste
      1    Salt and pepper to taste
      3    Firm,ripe,tomatoes,seeded &
      1    Cubed
    1/3 c  Black olives pitted
      1 pn Dried marjoram
 
      Bring a large saucepan of salted water to a boil.Put a plate on
  top of the pan,covering the water,lay the anchovy filets on the
  plate,and mash with a fork.They will dissolve smoothly with the
  
  heat.When anchovies are disolved,remove the plate,Add the rice to the
  water,and cook until tender about 45 to 55 minutes..
      Meanwhile,in a small saucepan,saute the onion in 2 tabls.of olive
  oil.When the onion is golden and soft,sprinkle the vinegar over it,and
  allow it to evaporate for 2 minutes.Add the wine,lemon
  juice,mustard,dissolved anchovies and tomato paste.Mix carefully then
  seive once to make a smooth sauce.
      Drain the rice and spread it out on a warmed serving platter.Pour
  the sauce over it and sprinkle it with salt and pepper.While the rice
  cools slightly fry the tomato cubes quickly in the remaing 3 tabls.
  of olive oil for 1 minute,then mix in the olives and marjoram.Pour
  them over the rice and sauce.Then serve.Makes 4 servings........ For
  You Rita T.........
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TONY'S LEMONY VEAL PICCATA TDRH33B
 Categories: Main dish, Italian, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Veal scallops; pounded thin
           Flour
           Salt
           Pepper
      3 tb Olive oil
      3 c  Garlic; crushed
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Chicken broth
      3 tb Capers
      1    Sm Lemon; peeled ,white remo
      2 tb Butter
      4 tb Parsley; fresh
 
  Dust the veal with flour.Season with salt and pepper.Saute in the oil
  till lightly browned,about 2-3 min. Remove from pan and keep warm.
  Pour off any remaining oil add the garlic and saute several
  seconds.Add wine or sherry and bring to boil.Reduce to 1/3-cup.Stir
  in capers and lemon.Return to boil.Swirl in the butter and
  parsley.Dip the veal slices into the sauce,place on platter and top
  with remaining sauce. I like to garnish with more parsley and some
  lemon slices. Enjoy, i hope this is what you are looking for.
  9/20...11:00a cj :) FROM: CAROLE TOSO (TDRH33B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta With Scallops/Vegetables JJGF65A
 Categories: Pasta, Seafood, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------
     10 oz Fresh white or spinach fettu
      2 c  Broccoli florets
      1 tb Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic,crushed
      1    Red or yellow pepper,cored
           Seeded and diced
      4 oz Mushrooms,sliced
    3/4 lb Bay or sea scallops
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Chicken broth or clam juice
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts White pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Cornstarch
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
      Bring 2 quarts of salted water to a boil.Add fettuccine and bring
  to a boil.Add broccoli florets and cook 3 to 5 minutes,until tender.(
  if using dried pasta,cook pasta 5 minutes,then add broccoli and cook
  4 to 5 minutes more.)Drain and toss.
      Heat oil in large,nonstick skillet over medium heat.Saute garlic
  one minute,until fragrant.Add peppers and mushrooms.Cook,stirring
  constantly for 3 to 4 minutes,or until peppers begin to soften.Stir
  in scallops with any accumulated juice.Cook just until scallops begin
  to go opaque.Stir in white wine and broth.Add nutmeg,white pepper,and
  salt.Bring liquid to a simmer and cook 2 to 4 minutes more depending
  on size of scallops.
     In a small dish blend cornstarch and lemon juice to a smooth paste
  and stir into scallop mixture.Cook just until sauce thickens
  slightly.Turn warm pasta into serving bowl.Add scallop mixture and
  toss to coat pasta.If dersired sprinkle with Parmesan cheese.Serve
  warm.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp Scampi  I.E.S.JJGF65A
 Categories: Seafood, Italian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PHILLY.INQUIRER---------------------------

MMMMM----------------------NATHALIE DUPREE---------------------------
      1 lb SHRIMP;MEDIUM SIZE IN SHELLS
    1/2 c  BUTTER
      4    GARLIC CLOVES;CRUSHED/SALT
      4 tb PARSLEY;FRESH,CHOPPED
      2 pn CAYENNE PEPPER
      2    LEMON;FOR JUICE
 
      pEEL SHRIMP,LEAVING ON TAILS.Heat the butter,oil and garlic in a
  broiler proof pan.Stir in the parsley,cayenne,and lemon juice.Add the
  shrimp,tossing to coat.Place under the broiler 6" from heat,and broil
  until done,about 5 minutes.Check half way through the cooking time
  and turn shrimp as necessary.Serve with crusty bread for dipping in
  the sauce.Makes two appertizer servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP PASTA *** (DCJR89A)
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Seafood, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12 oz Twist pasta; small
      1 lb Cooked shrimp; shelled & dev
    1/2 c  Chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Olive oil; divided
      4 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Tarragon; crushed
    1/4 ts Rosemary; crushed
    1/2 ts Salt; to taste
    1/8 x  Tabasco sauce
 
  Try this one from THE PASTA SALAD BOOK by Nina Graybill & Maxine
  Rapoport. Have not tried it myself but it looks great!
       Cook pasta until al dente, drain well & toss with 2 tble. oil.
  Set aside to cool.
       Cut some of the shrimp into smaller pieces if desired Throughly
  mix remaining oil, lemon juice, herbs, salt & Tabasco sauce. Taste &
  adjust seasonings.
       In a serving bowl, toss the pasta, shrimp, dressing & parsley.
  Cover & let flavors blend about 1/2 hour. (Refrigerate if salad won't
  be served for more than 1/2 hour.) Just before serving, toss again.
  FROM: JANA SWANSON (DCJR89A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Chicken Oregano@ *** bgmb90b
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Chicken breast
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Olive oil
           Salt & pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      3 tb Oregano, fresh or 1 t dried
 
  Several hours before serving-or the day before, if time allows, rub
  the chicken pieces pieces with the garlic and place them in a deep
  china or earthenware bowl. Combine marinade ingredients and the
  garlic clove and pour over chicken.  Cover the bowl and refrigerate
  the chicken. Turn chicken pieces occasionally. When ready to cook,
  preheat the broiler to its highest setting. Arrange the chicken
  pieces on the broiler rack and baste with a little of the melted
  butter mixture. (Reserve part of the basting mixture to serve over
  the chicken when served.) Broil the chicken 3-4 inches from the heat
  for 5-8 minutes per side, basting often. Chicken is done when juices
  run clear when pierced with a sharp knife. Remove to serving platter,
  pour reserved basting mixture over the chicken breasts and serve
  immediately. This is also good done on a BBQ.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pheasant with grapes & White Wine Sauce
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------LISA CRAWLEY  TSPN00B------------------------
      4 tb Butter
      1    Pheasant
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Clear stock
    1/2 c  White wine
  1 1/2 c  White grapes; seedless
      3 tb Lemon juice
 
  Melt butter in casserole or Dutch oven; when hot saute pheasant
  gently all over until golden brown.  Remove bird. Add flour, stock,
  and wine; blend smoothly. Bring to boil; add seasoning.
   Return bird to casserole; cover.  Cook in 350 oven 35-45 min., until
  pheasant is tender; turn during cooking. Peel grapes by dipping in
  boiling water a few seconds, then in cold water.
   Strip skins; if not seedless, remove seeds.  Cover with a little
  lemon juice to prevent browning. When bird is tender, remove; carve.
  Place on serving dish and keep warm. Add grapes to sauce; cook couple
  of min. Season to taste; spoon over pheasant. Serve with mashed
  potatoes and peas or spinach.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KOWLOON DUCKLING  *HGSK65A*
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Ethnic, Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           DAVID DAY   (HGSK65A)
      1    Duckling, 4 to 5 lbs.
      6    Green onions, cut up
      6    Parsley sprigs
      1    Garlic clove, minced
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Honey
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Recipe Plum Sauce

MMMMM-------------------------PLUM SAUCE------------------------------
      1 cn Plums, 17 oz.
    1/4 c  Syrup from plums
    1/4 ts Orange peel, grated
      3 tb Orange juice
      2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Cinnamon, ground
 
  Stuff cavity of duckling with onion, parsley, and garlic. Skewer neck
  and body cavities closed; tie securely with cord. In saucepan, heat
  soy sauce, honey, and lemon juice.  Sprinkle dampened hickory chips
  over slow coals. Arrange coals away from duckling. Place duckling on
  foil baking pan; place atop grill.  Close hood and roast for 2 1/4 to
  2 1/2 hours, adding dampened hickory chips every 30 minutes and
  basting frequently with soy sauce mixture.  Remove grease as needed.
  Serve with Plum Sauce. ******************Plum
  Sauce******************** Drain one 17-oz can purple plums, reserving
  1/4 cup syrup. Force plums through sieve. In saucepan, combine sieved
  plums, plum syrup, orange peel, orange juice, sugar, worcestershire
  sauce and cinnamon. Heat to boiling; simmer 10 minutes. Makes 1 1/4
  cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STUFFED WILD DUCK
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -JUDY GARNETT PJXG05A
      1    Duck
      1    Lemon; for juice
      1    Rib of celery
    1/4 md Onion
    1/4 md Onion
    1/4 md Apple
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1    Salt pork; thin sliced
 
    Soak duck in cold water with juice of 1 lemon for 30 minutes before
  cooking. Dry thoroughly. Salt and pepper inside and out. Fill cavity
  with celery, onion, orange, apple and Worcestershire. Lay strip of
  salt meat over bird, secure with toothpicks. Place in heavy Dutch
  oven with 1 inch water in bottom. Bake covered at 325 for 1 hour, or
  until very tender. Baste often. Before serving remove salt meat;
  brown by removing cover and basting.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASTED DUCK WITH OYSTER DRESSING
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Seafood, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -JUDY GARNETT PJXG05A
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 qt Bread stuffing mix
      1 c  Oysters
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Paprika
    1/8 ts Thyme
 
    Season duck cavity with salt and pepper. Add oysters, drained and
  chopped, to bread stuffing. Use oyseter liquid as part of liquid to
  moisten. LIghtly stuff duck. Place remainder in separate pan to bake
  with duck. Mix butter, lemon juice, paprika and thyme. Bake duck on
  rack in covered roaster in 325 deg. oven for about 2 1/2 hours. Baste
  often with lemon mixture. Baste dressing with duck drippings. remove
  cover at the last to brown duck.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: DUCK OVER CHARCOAL
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -JUDY GARNETT PJXG05A
      4    Ducks
           -salt and pepper
      3 c  Wine vinegar
      4    Lemons; (for juice)
      1 c  Olive oil
      2 cl Garlic; pressed
      2    Onions; chopped
      1 cn Chopped pimientos
      3 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Oregano
     12    Strips bacon
 
     Wash ducks thoroughly in cold water and dry. SEason to taste with
  salt and pepper. Combine vinegar, elmon juice, olive oil, garlic,
  onions, pimento, soy sauce, oregano, s & P. Marinate ducks in this
  mixture at least 8 hours. Cook over charcoal fire that has burned
  down low. Close top of grill. Cook about 1 1 2/ hours. Place 3 strips
  of bacon on each bird and cook for 30 minutes more.
     100 Years of Carolina Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BREAST OF PHEASANT UNDER GLASS
 Categories: Game, Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -JUDY GARNETT PJXG05A
      2    Pheasant breasts
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      3 tb Butter
      1 ts Shallots; peeled, chopped
      2 tb Brandy
    1/3 c  Dry white wine
    1/3 c  Heavy cream
      1 tb Meat Glaze
           -dashes of cayenne
      1 tb Truffles or morels; cut
           - into thin strips
      2 tb Mushrooms; thin strips
 
    Remove skim from pheasant breasts. Trim edges and flatten breasts
  slightly with a meat mallet. Rub breasts with 1 T. of the lemon
  juice, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. Melt 2 T. of the butter in
  a 9-inch skillet. When butter foams, add breasts and suate 3 minutes
  on each side. Do not overcook. Make a shallow cut in one of the
  breasts with a sharp knife. The meat should be pink and the juice
  that run out should be clear yellow. Remove breasts from skillet nad
  keep warm. Add shallots to dripping and saute until golden brown.
  Drain butter from shallots and reserve. Add brandy and wine and
  reduce to half its volume. Add cream and Meat Glaze and reduce to
  half its volume gain. Strain sauce, and add the remaining 1 T. lemon
  juice, the remaining T. butter and cayenne. Mix truffles and
  mushrooms, and divide into 2 portions. Place warm breasts on a
  serving dish. Top each with truffles and mushrooms. Pour sauce over
  breasts and cover with a glass cover. Recipe from the Greenbrier
  Hotel.
   CHEF's NOTE: Breast of pheasant is served under glass to hold in the
  cognac flavor that makes this dish so
  
  unique.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PHEASANT NORMANDY
 Categories: Game, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -JUDY GARNETT PJXG05A
      2    Pheasants
           -salt & pepper; to taste
           -lemon pepper; to taste
      2 c  Dry shery
           -sour cream
 
    Thoroughly clean and dry pheasants. Season with salt, pepper, and
  lemon pepper. Place in roaster and add sherry. Cover and bake in 350
  deg. oven for 1 hour. Baste frequently. Add more sherry, if needed.
  Remove lid and fill each bird with sour cream. Return to oven. Bake
  at 400 degrees for 30 minutes or until browned. Serve with wild rice
  and mushrooms. Serve 4 to 5.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sirloin Steak with Grilled Bell Peppers
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Top sirloin steak, cut 1 1/4
      1    Large green, red, and yelloe
      1 tb Oil
      1 tb Lemon pepper
      1 ts Salt
 
  Cut peppers in half lengthwise; trim and remove seeds.
   Cut each half into thirds.  Combine oil and lemon pepper; brush over
  peppers. Place beef top sirloin steak and peppers on grid over
  ash-covered coals. Broil 16 to 20 minutes, turning steak once and the
  peppers occasionally.  Season steak and peppers with salt. Carve
  steak into thin slices and serve with grilled peppers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken w/ Garlic & Parsley
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    Garlic cloves
      1    Chicken ; halved,deboned
      2 tb Parsley, finely chopped ital
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
      2 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2    Lemon, juice of
 
  Prepare charcoal grill. Place unpeeled garlic cloves in pan of cold
  water. Bring gradually to boil, lower heat, simmer 3-4 min. Drain.
  Peel & finely slice. Combine garlic w/parsley. Stuff half this
  mixture under the skin of both chicken halves. Season with salt &
  pepper. Place seasoned chicken over hot charcoal & grill about 5 min.
  on each side, or until just tender. Meanwhile, melt the butter in a
  small skillet & saute remaining garlic/parsley mixture w/lemon juice
  until warmed through; do not brown. Arrange grilled chicken on
  serving platter, top w/garlic/parsley sauce, and serve immediately.---
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gourmet Sirloin Tips
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Sirloin tips
      2 tb Oil
      1 c  Garlic; (minced)
      1 c  Catsup
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt & pepper
 
     Saute  garlic in hot oil. Add meat and brown on all sides over
  medium heat.  Mix together remaining ingreds., and add to meat. Cover
  and simmer over low heat until meat is tender. Serve over rice.
        Enjoy,
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN MARSALA w/ PEPPERS
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, French
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Chicken breast; 5-6 Oz.*
           Olive oil as needed
  1 1/2 c  Marsala Win
  1 1/2 c  Fresh mushrooms; thinly slic
      1 c  Sweet red pepper; juliened
      1 c  Sweet yellow pepper; juliene
    1/2 c  Green onions; sliced**
      2    Cloves garlic; minced
  2 3/4 c  Canned chicken broth
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Dried oregano
    1/2 ts Dried basil
      1 ts Salt
           Fresh ground black pepper
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Canned chicken broth
           Hot cooked pasta; drained
 
  *Skinned & boned **(both white and green part) 1. Cut chicken into
  strips; set aside. Add olive oil to a Dutch oven; place over
  medium-high heat until hot. Add chicken strips, and saute until
  tender. Remove and set aside. Add wine to Dutch oven, and bring to a
  boil. Pour over chicken. 2. Add more olive oil to Dutch oven; heat
  until hot. Add mushrooms and next 4 ingredients. Saute until tender.
  Add 2-3/4 cups chicken stock and next 5 ingredients. Bring to a boil.
  Add reserved chicken mixture and return to a boil. 3. Combine
  cornstarch and 1/4 cup chicken stock. Stir into mixture in Dutch
  oven. Return to a boil and boil for 1 minute, stirring constantly.
  Serve over hot cooked pasta with green salad and plenty of sour dough
  bread.................Or garlic bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ROAST LEMON CHICKEN (FOR 4)
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken
      2    Lemons
      1    Small garlic bulb; seperated
           Salt and pepper
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Butter or margerine
           Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Cut up one lemon into 8 pieces. Rub the outside of a well cleaned and
  dry chicken with the peel side of the pieces and then put the lemon
  inside the chicken. Place the garlic in with the lemon. Season well
  with salt and pepper and pour a mixture of half olive oil (only use
  extra virgin if you can still find one around) and half butter on top
  and inside of the chicken. (This has to be slightly heated first.
  But, then I know I should not have to tell you all that) Roast for 1
  1/2 hour in a preheated 325*F oven. Half an hour before taking the
  chicken out of the oven, pour freshly squeezed lemon juice from the
  second lemon over the top and sprinkle lightly with the fresh chopped
  parsley. That is it. So simple. We all love it so much and I hope you
  all do as well. Even our French roommate likes it, but then he can't
  cook either. DANA
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Waldorf Style Salad
 Categories: Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Apples; sml Red Delicious
      1 c  Celery; diced
    1/4 c  Raisins; dark
  2 1/2 tb Mayonnaise; reduced cal.
      4    Romaine lettuce leaves
  1 1/2 tb Sunflower seeds
 
  In small mixing bowl sprinkle lemon juice over apples which have been
  cored and diced.  Toss lightly to combine and add celery, raisins,
  and mayo. Mix until thoroughly coated. Cover with plaxtic wrap and
  refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.  To serve, line 4 salad plates
  with lettuce leaf; top each with an equal amount of apple mixture and
  sprinkle each with 1 t. sunflower seeds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Microwave Scampi
 Categories: Seafood, Microwave
      Yield: 2 servings
 
     24    Medium shrimp
    1/3 c  Margarine
    1/2    Lemon
      1    Garlic clove
      1    Green onion
 
       Melt butter in microwave dish.  Mince garlic and finely chopped
  onion. Microwave butter, garlic and onion on High for 1/2 minute. Let
  stand 1 minute.
   Add shrimp and juice from lemon.  Microwave on High for 4 minutes,
  turning and stirring shrimp a couple of times. Serve with rice pilaf.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOLLANDAISE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Egg yolks
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
      8    Drops Tabasco sauce
 
  * Into the top of a double broiler put all ingredients Place about
  one inch of water in the bottom part of the double boiler, and bring
  water to a boil.  Turn the fire down to very low. Place the top part
  of the double boiler into the bottom part.  Add 1 stick (1/2 c) of
  VERY COLD butter to the egg mixture.  Whisk until the butter melts
  and the sauce thickens. Keep the sides and bottom scraped.  If the
  water seems to be boiling too much simply lift the top part of the
  double boiler out of the bottom, and let it calm down.
   When the sauce thickens, put a top on, and try to>>> serve as soon as
  possible.  This never curdles on me.
   Let me know if it does on you.  Sometimes, I even reheat this (if I
  ever have leftovers).  When I reheat it, it curdles. The trick then
  is the following:  Add a small amount of milk (about 1/2 to 1
  teaspoon), and whisk, whisk, whisk.  Hope this is the info you need.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KUKN BARBEQUE SAUCE
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Chili sauce
      2 c  Brown sugar
           Lemon juice; half
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 ds Tobasco
 
  Combine ingredients in sauce pan.   Bring to boil, and reduce to
  simmer for at least 1/2 hour.    Tastes great on chicken, pork, or
  sausages.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON CHICKEN WITH BASIL
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Chicken breasts
      1 lb Mushrooms
      1    Lemon, sliced into thin wedg
      1 c  Tomato sauce-8 oz
      1    Basil; chopped fresh
      6    Sprouts
           Chives; chopped
    1/4 c  White wine-cheap
    1/2 c  Mozarella cheese, shredded *
      1 c  Rice, uncooked
           Parmesan cheese.
 
  Chicken breasts can be split to 4 pieces or cubed to bite size. In
  deep fry pan, saute chicken and mushrooms in half of the white wine
  with basil, lemon, and chives until mostly done. Splash in rest of
  wine (or extra) as needed.  Add tomato sauce, cover, and simmer for
  20 minutes, or until thickened, stirring occasionally. When done,
  lemon wedges should be thoroughly cooked, and can be eaten.  Serve
  over steamed rice. Top with a sprinkle of parmesan or mozarella (not
  too much) and a little sprinkle of chives. (It's good without the
  cheese, too.) Garnish with a fresh sprig of basil and wedges from
  unused half of lemon. Serves 2 (plenty). NOTE: The white wine can be
  replaced with apple juice. As a matter of fact, I like mushrooms
  cooked in apple juice until it's reduced down to almost nothing. A
  lot less calories than cooking them in butter, and tastes great.
  Sometimes I'll put in a clove of garlic. (I haven't tried this when
  using apple juice instead of wine yet.) D PILEGGI (TDJR42A) Recipe:
  Alan Kundl on First Capitol BBS (314)-928-9228
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Parsleyed Potatoes
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Potato; tiny new  or medium
    1/4 c  Parsley
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Scrub potatoes.and cook until tender; drain.  Place in serving bowl,
  keep warm. Meanwhile,  melt butter, stir in parsley and lemon juice.
  Pour over potatoes and stir lightly to coat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LOBSTER STUFFED W/CRABMEAT
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Lobsters (1 1/4 lb.)
      4 tb Butter; melted
      1 ds Paprika
           Lemon
           Parsley
           Watercress
           Crabmeat stuffing:
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Milk
           Salt & pepper
    1/4 c  Green pepper-diced
      2    Pimentos-diced
    1/2 tb Worchestershire sauce
      2 tb Parsley-minced
      2 lb Crabmeat
      2    Egg yolks-well beaten
 
  Put each live lobster on its back & split down the middle with a
  cleaver, being careful not to cut through the back shell. Remove sand
  bag near the middle of head. Crack claws w/ a knife to let water out.
  Baste lobster w/ melted but- ter & paprika, soaking thoroughly. Broil
  3 in. from heat for 15-20 mins. until lightly browned Put warm
  stuffing on top of lobster meat, just as you would apply frosting to
  a cake. Brown again under broiler for 2-3 mins. To serve, garnish w/
  lemon, parsley & watercress. Provide melted butter on side. Crabmeat
  stuffing: In a large saute pan over med. heat, melt butter, add the
  flour, & stir until smooth. Add the milk & continue cooking, stirring
  constantly, until thickened. Add the remaining ingredients & mix
  well. Continue cooking until heated through, but do not allow to
  boil. Make sure to use live lobsters for this recipe!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LOVERS' CHICKEN
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Chicken breasts
      1 c  White wine
      2 ts Garlic powder
      3 tb Cardini's lemon herb dressng
      1    Lemon
      2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Paprika
 
    DIRECTIONS ~------------------------------------------------------
  ~- MARINATE CHICKEN IN WHITE WINE, GARLIC POWDER AND DRESSING FOR ONE
  HOUR. PREHEAT OVEN TO 325 F. SPREAD CHICKEN IN CASSERLOLE, AND
  SQUEEZE FRESH LEMON JUICE ON TOP. SPOON MARINADE OVER EACH PIECE OF
  CHICKEN. SPRINKLE WITH PEPPER AND PAPRIKA. BAKE FOR 30 MINUTES.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MAMMA'S CHICKEN CHICKEN
 Categories: Poultry, Italian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Chickens, cut up in serving
           Pieces
      1 c  Lemon juice
      2 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
      1    H
      2 tb Grated cheese
      1    Sliced onion
           Olive oil
 
  Dip chicken in lemon juice, and then roll in seasoned bread-crumb-and
  cheese mixture. In a baking dish, place onion in and around chicken.
  Sprinkle with olive oil and bake in preheated 350~ degree oven for 1
  hour, uncovered. Serve immediately. VARIATION: POTATOES--You take 4
  potatoes, peeled and cut in sixths lengthwise.
   Rub a little olive oil on each piece, dip in seasoned bread crumbs
  mixed w/cheese and place between chicken pieces. You can even cook
  the potatoes in a baking dish of their own at 350~ degrees for 1
  hour. They are a perfect accompaniment to roast beef, veal, or pork.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Drumsticks
 Categories: Poultry, Ethnic, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      3 tb Brown sugar-dark brown
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Sherry
      1 tb Salad oil
      1 ts Ginger-ground
    1/3 c  Onions green-chopped
      1 c  Garlic-crushed
      8 x  Chicken drumsticks
 
  In 9" baking dish combine all ingredients except drumsticks. Add
  drumsticks turning to coat all sides.
   Cover and marinate in refrigerator 3 hours or overnight turning
  occasionally.  Preheat oven to 350~.
   Bake uncovered 60-70 minutes or until drumsticks are tender turning
  once.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pierogi (Peer-o-gee)
 Categories: Side dish, Ethnic, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Flour
      2    Egg
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Water
           Savory cheese filling
  1 1/2 c  Farmer cheese
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Sugar
      1    Egg
      1    Egg yolk
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  1. Mound flour on a bread board and make a well in the center. 2.
  Drop eggs and salt into well. Add water; working from the center to
  the outside of flour mound, mix flour into liquid in center with one
  hand and keep flour mounded with the other. Knead until dough is
  firm. 3. Cover dough with warm bowl 10 min. 4. Divide dough into
  halves. On floured surface, using half the dough at a time, roll
  dough as thin as possible. 5. Cut out 3-inch rounds with large
  biscuit cutter. (Or whatever). 6. Place a small spoonful of filling
  (see later) a little to one side on each round of dough. Moisten edge
  with water, fold over and press edges together firmly. Be sure they
  are well sealed. 7. Drop dumplings into boiling salted water. Cook
  gently 3 to 5 minutes, or until pierogi float. (1 1/2 to 2 doz) There
  are all kinds of fillings. I'll give you two. SAUCE PREP: Press
  cheese through a sieve into a bowl. Add remaining ingredients, mix.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polo Loco Marinade
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Lemon;  squeezed
      1    Lime;  squeezed.
           Cilantro
    1/4 c  Orange juice
           Mexican spice seasoning ;to
 
  pour over raw chicken and let soak for up to 4 hours and grill on the
  bbq.. also you can add tequilla and its wonderful.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SCALLOPS & MUSSELS, VINAIGRETTE
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     36    Bay scallops
      1 c  Lemon juice, or more if need
     36    Mussells, cleaned and de-bea
     36    Asparagus
      1    Boston lettuce
      1 ts Parsley-chopped
           Dijon mustard vinaigrette:
      1    Egg yolk
      4 tb Dijon mustard
      1    Egg-hard boiled, chopped
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
           Sugar-pinch of
      1 tb Onion-minced
      1    Garllic clove-minced
      2 ts Shallots-minced
      2 ts Oregano
      1 ts Basil
      2 ts Parsley-chopped
      1 c  Olive oil
      3 tb White wine
      3 tb White vinegar
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 01:30 Remove
  small white muscle from scallops & mar-inate in lemon juice for one
  hour. Steam mussels, discarding any that do not open. Set aside. Cook
  asparagus in boiling, salted water for 6-8 min. or until al dente.
  Drain & cool. Drain off lemon juice from scallops. Mix scallops &
  mussels together w/ Dijon Mustard Vinaigrette. Prepare a bed of
  lettuce & lay as- paragus on top. Arrange mussels & scallops across
  the asparagus. Sprinkle with parsley and serve.
    VINAIGRETTE: Combine egg yolk & mus- tard. Add all ingredients
  except oil,wine & vinegar. Add oil slowly in stream then add white
  wine & white vinegar. When asparagus isn't in season,fresh,halved
  Bartlett pears or halved avocado may be substi- tuted. This dish may
  also be served as a main course in greater quantities.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops Ageganata
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      3 tb Bread crumbs; dried
      1 ts Fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Oregano; each  &
           Lemon peel; grated
      1 tb Margarine; reduced calorie
    1/2 ts Margarine; reduced calorie
      8 oz Scallops;  bay or sea
      1 tb Lemon juice;  freshly squee
      1 tb Dry vermouth
      1 c  Garlic;  minced
 
  in mixing bowl, combine crumbs, parsley, oregano & lemon peel; add
  margarine & mix well until thoroughly moistened. Set aside. Preheat
  broiler; in shallow flameproof 1 1/2 c. casserole, arrange scallops;
  mix together remaining ingredients & pour over scallops. Broil 6
  inches from heat until scallops are opaque, 4 to 5 minutes. Sprinkle
  crumb mixture evently over scallops & broil until crisp & lightly
  browned, about 1 minute longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SCALLOPS FOR PUNKY
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Scallops;  fresh or frozen
  1 1/3 c  Water
      3 ts Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3    Peppercorns
      3    Sl Onion
    1/2 c  Tarragon vinegar
    1/3 c  Salad oil
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Garlic;  sliced
      6    Salad greens
    3/4 c  Radishes; sliced
      3    Egg; sliced - hard cooked
      1 pt Cherry tomatoes; cut in 1/2
    1/4 lb Cheese ; cheddar cheese - c
 
  Try this refreshing scallop salad from Fla. Dept of Natural
  Resources. Thaw scallops; rinse; drain well. combine water, juice,
  1/2 tsp salt, peppercorns and onion in saucepan, bring to boil.
  Simmer 5 mins. Add scallops, cover and simmer gently 10 mins till
  tender.
   drain. Combine vinegar, oil sugar remaining salt and garlic; stir
  until sugar is disolved.  Pour over scallops. 'Chill several hours.
  Add celery, mix and drain; saving marinade Arrange greens in salad
  bowl.
   pile scallops and celery in center, and arrange remaining foods in
  groups aroundscallops on greens.
   Serve with reserved marinade.  or other favorite french or oil and
  vinegar dressing.   This is easier to make than it looks, and well
  worth it. I serve it in a large shell salad bowl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp /Garlic Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      4 c  Garlic ; thinly sliced
      1    Red bell pepper ; seeded an
  1 1/4 lb Shrimp ; med
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Dry sherry
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
      3 tb Parsley ; finely chopped fr
 
  Fat grams    per serving:              Approx. Cook Time:
  :05 Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. Add the
  garlic, pepper and shrimp. Cook for about 2 minutes, stirring
  constantly, just until the shrimp turn pink. Increase the heat to
  high. Add the lemon juice, sherry, hot red pepper, and salt to taste
  and bring to a boil. Serve immediately, sprinkled with parsley. The
  total cooking time shouldn't be more than 5 minutes. Serve over rice
  with a salad for a delicious, quick meal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP PAESANO
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp ; deveined
      2 pt Half & half
      2 tb Oil
      2 c  Flour.
           Sauce:
      1    Egg yolk
      1    Butter
      1    Garlic ; minced  pods
    1/2 c  Parsley ; chopped
           Chives
    1/2    Lemon juice
 
  Never  made this dish,  but the rumor in San Antonio is that Joe
  Paesano's wife stole this prior to their divorce, she then proceeded
  to give it to anyone who would take it. Don't know if that is true or
  not, but here is the recipe. Pre-heat oven to 400. Soak shrimp in 1/2
  & 1/2 for at least 30 minutes.   Drain and roll shrimp in flour and
  saute in oil over medium heat for 5 minutes. Do not turn shrimp. Re-
  move and place shrimp in baking dish, sauted side down in pre-heated
  oven. Turn oven to broil and broil for 5 minutes. For sauce: Mix egg
  yolk and lemon juice in half the butter and stir over low heat until
  melted, take off heat. Add garlic and rest of butter and stir briskly
  until butter melts and sauce thickens. (Add small amount of 1/2 & 1/2
  to thicken). Add chives and parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimps Pacifica
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Large raw shrimp in shell
    1/2 c  Peanut oil or salad oil
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Italian seasoning
      1 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 ts Seasoned pepper
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Green onions, thinly sliced
 
  Wash shrimps under cold running water; remove feelers but do not
  shell; drain on paper toweling.  Place in medium size bowl. Stir
  peanut oil or salad oil, lemon juice, Italian seasoning, and seasoned
  salt and pepper together.  Pour over shrimp and let stand for about
  30 minutes -- stirring frequently.  I prefer to let them stay in the
  marinade overnight in the frig. Lift shrimp from the marinade about
  1/2 hour before barbecuing and let them drain. Place on grill about 6
  inches from hot coals. Brush with marinade.  Grill, turning once and
  brushing with marinade. Takes about 6 minutes per side or until pink.
  Pour remaining marinade into a small saucepan, stir in brown sugar
  and soy sauce. Heat to boiling, then stir in green onions. Serve
  separately as a dip for shrimp. Have plenty of napkins or damp
  washcloths. I use shrimp that is 12-16 per lb. I figure about 4 per
  person -- but sometimes for big eaters 6 per person. I then make an
  extra half of recipe of the marinade.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOLE ALMONDINE
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, French
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Butter/margarine
    1/3 c  Almonds; sliced
    1/4 ts Dill weed
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 ts Whiskey, rum, favorite "booz
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 lb Sole fillets
 
  And while you're posting elsewhere, here's a great MW fish recipe if
  you need to get fancy - or even if you want to treat yourself - while
  waiting for the guts to be back in your kitchen. Zap everything but
  fish in MW safe dish (I use clear glass) until almonds are brown (5-7
  min.) Lay fish fillets on mixture & coat both sides, then zap for 6
  min. (No need to turn them while cooking.) Serve with rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TROPICAL CHICKEN
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Chicken; quartered parts
      8 oz Pineapple; crushed  packed
    1/2 c  Estee granulated fructose
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Dry mustard powder
 
       The recipe, as POSTED (a rose by any other name....) was
  published by Hidden Valley about 10 years ago, and I'm not sure that
  the low fat version was available at the time. Since it is being
  used, in this case, primarily as a seasoning, I see no reason why the
  low fat would not work. As to the eggs, their main purpose is to hold
  the seasoning to the chicken. Again, I think that the whites alone
  would do the job. I also came across another chicken recipe that may
  be of interest to you. Mix pineapple with its juice, fructose, lemon
  juice and mustard in small bowl. Place chicken on rack in shallow
  baking pan. Spread pineapple mixture over each piece of chicken
  (approx 2 tablespoons each). Bake for 20 minutes, then remove from
  oven to baste again. Bake 20 minutes and baste again. Return to oven
  for final 20 minutes of baking. Pour pineapple sauce and drippings
  from baking pan into bowl and chill. Skim fat, then return to sauce
  pan to reheat. Serve sauce over chicken.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Western Style BBQ
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Ketchup,
    1/2 c  Lemon juice,
    1/4 c  Onion ; minced
      1 ts Hot pepper
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce.
 
  Place all ingredients in saucepan.  Bring to a boil and simmer 30
  minutes or until slightly thickened.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wet Marinade/beef
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Bourbon
      1 c  Brown sugar
    2/3 c  Soy sauce
      1    Cilantro ; chopped
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      1 tb Worshestershire sauce
      2 c  Water
      3    Thyme ; chopped
 
  Mix  all the ingredients together and marinade meat in refrigerator 8
  to 12 hours, rotating meat occasionally.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wined and Dined Beef Roast
 Categories: Main dish, Appetizers, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Garlic ; minced
      3 tb Oil
    1/2 c  Red wine- dry
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Basil; minced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
      3 lb Chuck roast ; 1 1/2 inch th
      2 tb Steak sauce ; like a-1
 
  Cook garlic in oil, but don't brown. Remove from heat and add wine,
  lemon juice, basil, salt and mustard.
   Prick roast on both sides with fork.  Place roast and marinade in a
  plastic bag and refrigerate overnight or about 6 hours. Drain and
  reserve marinade. Grill over medium coals, 25-30 minutes on each
  side. Add steak sauce to marinade and > over roast while grilling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Artichokes
 Categories: Italian, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Medium Artichokes
      6 tb Finely minced fr rosemary
      1    Dried red chile, minced
      1    Olive oil
      1    Lemon
      6 tb Finely minced fr sage
      1    Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Snap the bottom outer leaves off each artichoke and discard. Put the
  artichokes in water acidulated with a few drops oflemon juice to keep
  them from discoloring. Using a small sharp knife, trim the stems to
  their tender corres and cut the tops off the leaves. Spread the
  leaves and scoop and scrape out the choke and any prickly inner
  leaves with a spoon. To make the filling, mix the herbs, peperoncino
  (red dried pepper), salt, pepper and a little olive oil. Divide the
  mixture evely and pack it in the artichokes. Stand them in a single
  layer in a baking pan filled to 1" height with equal amounts  of
  water and olive oil. Sprinkle olive oil liberally over the tops. Heat
  the oven to 350 F and bake unti tender, about 45 min. Serve hot, at
  room temperature, or cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Beef On Buns ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Catsup
      2 tb Brown Sugar
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      1 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      1 ts Prepared Mustard
    1/2 ts Onion Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      8 oz Cooked Roast Beef *
      4    Hamburger Buns, Split
 
  *    Roast Beef should be thinly sliced and there should be 8 to 10
  slices.
  
  Mix catsup, brown sugar, lemon juice, worcestershire sauce, mustard,
  onion salt, and pepper in 2-cup glass measure.  Microwave uncovered
  on high (100%) 1 1/2 minutes; stir.  Microwave to boiling, 1 to 2
  minutes. Layer half the beef slices and half the sauce in 1-Qt
  casserole; repeat. Cover and microwave on high (100%) until hot and
  bubbly, 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Place bottom halves of buns on
  serving plate. Top with beef and reamining bun halves.  Microwave
  uncovered on high (100%) until buns are hot, 30 seconds to 1 minute.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Chicken ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Cut Up Broiler Fryer
      1 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  Worcestershire Sauce
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Packed Brown Sugar
      1    Med. Onion, Chopped
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Celery Seed
    1/4 ts Liquid Smoke
      2    Dashes Red Pepper Sauce
 
  Cut chicken into pieces; cut each breast half into halves.  Arrange
  chicken skin sides up and thickest parts to outside in oblong baking
  dish, 12 x 7 1/2 x 2-inches.  Mix remaining ingredients in 4-cup
  glass measure. Microwave uncovered on high (100%) 3 minutes; stir.
  Microwave until mix- ture boils and thickens, 2 to 3 minutes.  Pour
  sauce over chicken. Cover loosely and microwave on high (100%) 10
  minutes. Rearrange chicken and baste with sauce.  Cover loosely and
  microwave until chicken is done, 10 to 15 minutes, basting with sauce
  every 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet 'n' Sour Pork ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Fresh Pork Shoulder *
      1    Med. Onion, Sliced
      8 oz (1 cn) Pineapple Chunks
    1/4 c  Packed Brown Sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      1 tb Imported Soy Sauce
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Ground Ginger
      1    Small Green Pepper **
      6 oz (1 Pk) Frozen Pea Pods
 
  *     Pork shoulder should be cut into 1/2-inch cubes. ** Green pepper
  should be seeded and cut into 1-inche pieces.
  
  Mix pork, onion, pineapple (with juice), brown sugar, cornstarch,
  lemon juice, soy sauce, salt, pepper and ginger in 2-qt casserole.
  Cover and microwave on medium (50%) until pork is no longer pink, 24
  to 28 minutes, stirring every 3 minutes. Stir in green pepper and pea
  pods. Cover and microwave on high (100%) green pepper and pea pods
  are tender, 3 to 4 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus Buttered Lobster Tails ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      8 oz (1) Frozen Lobster Tail
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Butter Or Margarine
  1 1/2 ts Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Finely Shredded Orange Peel
           Dash Salt
           Dash Ground Ginger
           Dash Paprika
 
  Place lobster tail in shallow baking dish.  Micro-cook, covered, on
  30% power about 5 minutes or till thawed, rotating dish a
  quarter-turn once. The tail is thawed when the shell is flexible
  enough to bend. Using a heavy knife, cut through the center of the
  top shell. Continue cutting through meat, but not through undershell.
  Spread the tail open, butterfly-style, so meat is on top. Return to
  shallow baking dish. Pour water atop. Micro-cook, covered, on 50% of
  power for 5 to 7 minutes or just till meat is opaque, rotating dish a
  quarter-turn every minute. (Shield cooked meat with small pieces of
  foil, if necessary, to prevent overcooking.) Let stand covered for 5
  minutes.  Meanwhile, combine butter or margarine, lemon juice, orange
  peel, salt, ginger, and paprika. Micro-cook, uncovered, on 100% power
  for 30 to 45 seconds, or till butter is melted. Mix well. Drizzle
  lobster tail with butter mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Stuffed Artichokes ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Med. Artichoke
      1 ts Lemon Juice
      2 tb Water
    1/4 c  Shredded Carrot
      2 tb Sliced Green Onion
      1 tb Butter Or Margarine
    1/8 ts Dried Sage, Crushed
    1/2 c  Cooked Rice
    1/4 c  Chicken Broth
    1/2 ts Lemon Juice
           Dash White Pepper
      1    Large Beaten Egg Yolk
 
  Cut off stem and loose outer leaves from artichoke.  Cut off 1 inch
  from top.  Snip off sharp leaf tips.  Brush cut edges with 1 t lemon
  juice. Place artichoke and water in a small casserole.  Cover with
  vented clear plastic wrap.  Micro-cook, covered, on 100% power for 5
  to 7 minutes or just till tender, rotating casserole a half-turn
  after 3 minutes. Let stand, covered, while preparing stuffing.  For
  stuffing, in a small nonmetal bowl stir together carrot, onion,
  butter or margarine and sage. Micro-cook, covered, on 100% power for
  1 1/2 to 2 1/2 minutes or till vegetables are tender, stirring once.
  Stir together vegetable mixture and rice.  Drain artichoke.  Remove
  center leaves and choke from artichoke. Spread the artichoke leaves
  slightly. Spoon rice stuffing into the center and behind each large
  leaf. Return artichoke to casserole. Cover with vented clear plastic
  wrap. Micro-cook, covered, on 100% power for 1 to 2 minutes or till
  stuffing is hot and base of artichoke is fork-tender, rotating the
  casserole a half-turn every 30 seconds.  Let stand, covered, while
  preparing sauce.  For sauce, in a 1-cup measure stir together chicken
  broth, 1/2 t lemon juice, cornstarch, and pepper. Micro-cook,
  uncovered, on 100% power for 1 to 2 minutes or till thickened and
  bubbly, stirring every 30 seconds.  Stir HALF the hot mixture into
  the egg yolk. Return all to the 1-cup measure. Micro-cook, uncovered,
  on 100% power for 15 seconds. Transfer stuffed artichoke to a warm
  plate. Pour sauce around the artichoke.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Beans Amadine ( Mw )
 Categories: Microwave, Vegetables, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Frozen Cut Green Beans
      1 ts Water
      1 ts Butter Or Margarine
      1 tb Slivered Almonds, Toasted
    1/4 ts Lemon Juice
 
  Place green beans in a small nonmetal bowl.  Sprinkle with water.
  Micro-cook, covered, on 100% power for 3 to 4 minutes or just till
  tender. Let stand, covered, while preparing butter mixture.  For
  butter mixture, in a custard cup micro-cook butter or margarine,
  uncovered, on 100% power for 20 to 30 seconds or till melted.  Stir
  in toasted almonds and lemon juice. Drain green beans; spoon butter
  mixture over green beans.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Shrimp & Marinade
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Parsley, fresh, chopped
      2 ts Coriander seeds, ground
      1 ts Salt, coarse
    1/4 ts Black pepper
     45    Shrimp, large (2 lb)
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Ginger, grated
     12    Skewers
    1/4 ts Pepper, red, crushed
    1/2 ts Thyme, dried
 
  Soak bamboo skewers 1 hour before using. Devein shrimp with scissors
  leaving shell intact. Mix all ingredients except shrimp until
  blended. Ad shrimp and marinate 30 minutes at room temper- ature or
  overnight in refrigerator. Drain and discard marinade. Thread shrimp
  on 2 parallel skewers. Cook 1-1/2 to 2 minutes per side.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Pepper Marinade
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 tb Oil
    1/2 ts Pepper, black, cracked
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 ts Dill, fresh
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Combine. Makes 1/2 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Soy Marinade
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Ginger, fresh, or:
      2    Garlic clove, minced
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Ginger, ground
 
  Combine, add meat and chill from 1 hour to overnight. Make enough for
  about one pound of meat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Lobster Dinner
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Medium ears corn
      2    Large garlic cloves, smashed
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
      1    Large live lobster halved
           Lemon wedges
      1    Stick butter (4 oz.)
      2 ts Minced fresh oregano
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Olive oil
     12    Littleneck clams, scrubbed
 
  Light grill. Fill large bowl halfway with cool water. Add ears of
  corn with husks intact, let soak for 20 minutes. In small saucepan,
  combine butter and garlic and melt over low heat. Stir in oregano,
  cayenne, and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Cover and set aside. Using blunt edge
  of knife, crack lobster claws and knuckles in 2 spots on 1 side
  without crushing meat. Brush shell of lobster body and uncracked side
  of claws and knuckles with olive oil. Place lobster pieces cracked
  side up on platter, brush with some reserved herb butter. Drain ears
  of corn and place on center of grill. Cover and grill for 5 minutes.
  Add lobster pieces, cracked side up, cover and grill, occasionally
  brushing with herb butter, for 15 minutes. Brush ears of corn
  thouroughly with fresh water and rotate slightly to blacken evenl.
  Add the clams to the hotest spot on the grill. Cover and grill about
  5 minutes, until clams open. Leave unopened clams on grill while
  transferring opened clams, corn and lobster to a large platter. Using
  tongs, check lobster for doneness by pulling up the tail meat and
  ckecking underside; it should be firm and dark orange; return to
  grill if required (DO NOT OVERCOOK!). Remove remaining clams from
  grill, discard any unopened. Brush the clams and lobster tails with
  more herb butter. Peel and discard husks and silks from corn; brush
  with herb butter. Garnish with lemon wedges and serve; pass remaining
  butter for dipping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp In Tamarind Sauce
 Categories: Seafood, Indonesian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp, fresh
      1 ts Sesame oil
           Salt; pinch
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Ginger, fresh; minced
      2    Shallot; chopped
           Coriander leaves; for garnis
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Tamarind liquid *
      2 tb Fish sauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2    Thai chile; finely chopped
  1 1/2 c  Oil
 
  * To make tamarind liquid, pour 1/2 cup boiling water over five or six
  fresh peeled tamarind pods, and let sit for 30 minutes.  Then pour
  through a strainer into a bowl, pressing as much of the pulp through
  as possible. Shell the shrimp.  Cut them in half lengthwise, toss
  them in corn- starch and sesame oil and refrigerate for at least 30
  minutes. Combine the tamarind liquid, salt, fish sauce, sugar, and
  lemon juice and set aside. Combine ginger, chili peppers, and
  shallots, and set aside. Heat the oil in a skillet or wok until hot
  but not smoking. Add the shrimp and stir quickly to separate them.
  Remove the shrimp when just pink and drain in a colander. Remove all
  but two tablespoons of oil from the skillet, heat the remaining oil
  over high heat and add the ginger/chile combination. Stir until
  fragrant, then add the tamarind sauce.  When boiling hot, add the
  shrimp and stir over high heat for a minute or so, until the sauce is
  reduced. Serve garnished with coriander leaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Bar-B-Que by Helen
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      6 c  Beef-sliced (3 lb Arm/Chuck)
      4 tb Sauce-Worchestershire
    1/2 c  Catsup
      5 tb Lemon Juice
           Salt & Pepper to taste
      2 c  Celery
           Mushrooms (if desired)
      3 c  Broth (or less)
      3 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Mustard-prepared
      1 c  Brown Sugar (not pack tight)
      2    Onions (2 med)
      3 tb Butter/Oleo/Bacon Fat
 
  Cook meat until tender. Save 3 cups of broth saute 4 (2 med) chopped
  onions and 2 cups celeryin about 3 tablespoons buttert/oleo/bacon
  fat. May also add mushrooms. Add onions and celery, mushrooms to
  broth and cook. Meat-heat and serve on buns. All ingredients can be
  placed ina crock pot, (meat uncooked, broth=water).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BABY CARROTS GLAZED WITH BUTTER
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Baby carrots; scraped
      3 tb Butter
      2 tb Chopped herbs; preferably
           -Lemon Balm  -OR-
           -Lemon thyme  -OR-
           -Mint
           Salt
           Freshly ground Black Pepper
 
  PLACE THE CARROTS in a heavy saucepan and barely cover with water.
  Add the butter and cover. Bring to the boil, reduce the heat, and
  cook 15 minutes or until still firm but easy to pierce with a fork.
  Remove the cover and boil down until the liquid has evaporated and
  the carrots are coated with butter. Watch them carefully or they will
  burn. Add the chopped herbs and season with salt and pepper.
  
  Makes 4 to 6 servings
  
  NATHALIE DUPREE
  
  PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRESH ASPARAGUS-SHRIMP RICE
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Rice,long-grain
      1 lb Asparagus,fresh
      2 tb Margarine
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp,peeled & deveined
      2    Garlic cloves,finely chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  1. Cook rice following package directions, salt optional. Reserve.
  2. Clean and slice asparagus into 1 1/2" pieces. Heat 1 tablespoon of
  the margarine in large nonstick skillet. Add asparagus; stir-fry 3
  minutes. Remove from skillet. Reserve.
  3. Add remaining 1 tablespoon margarine to skillet. Add shrimp;
  stir-fry over high heat 2 minutes. Stir in garlic; stir-fry 1 minute
  more. Stir in lemon juice, salt and pepper.
  4. Stir asparagus and rice into skillet. Heat to serving temperature.
  Garnish with lemon wedges, if you wish.
  (Joanie Winters, Ocean Springs MS)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: COMPANY POT ROAST
 Categories: Main dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 tb Vegetable oil
    3/4 c  Dry red wine
      2    Medium carrots
    3/4 c  Dairy sour cream
      1 ts Ground pepper
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Lemon juice
      4 lb Beef rolled rump roast*
      2    Cloves garlic,finely chopped
      2    Medium onions,thinly sliced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Dried thmye leaves
      2 tb Flour
 
  Heat oven to 325'. Heat oil in Dutch oven. Brown roast in hot oil;
  remove roast. Mix wine, garlic, carrots, onions, sour cream, salt,
  pepper and thyme in Dutch oven.
  Return roast to Dutch oven. Cover and bake until roast in tender,
  about 3 1/2 hours, turning 2 or 3 times during baking. Remove roast
  and vegetables to heated platter; keep warm while preparing gravy.
  Skim fat off liquid. Shake water and flour in covered jar. Stir flour
  mixture slowly into liquid. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly.
  Boil and stir 1 minute. Stir in lemon juice; cook 1 minute. Slice
  roast thinly; serve with gravy.
  *NOTE: Beef bottom round or boneless chuck eye roast can be
  substituted for the rolled rump roast.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HASENPFEFFER (SPICY BRAISED RABBIT)
 Categories: Main dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Frozen rabbit,thawed & cut
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/2 c  Finely chopped shallots
      1 c  Dry red wine
      1 tb Instant chicken bouillon
     10    Black peppercorns,crushed
    1/4 ts Dried rosemary leaves,crushe
      2 ts Lemon juice
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 lb Bacon,cut into 1/4" pieces
      1    Clove garlic,finely chopped
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Currant jelly
      1    Small bay leaf
    1/8 ts Dried thyme leaves
      3 tb Water
 
  Sprinkle rabbit with salt. Coat with 1/3 cup flour; shake off excess.
  Fry bacon in Dutch oven over medium heat until crisp; remove bacon and
  drain on paper towels. Brown a few pieces of rabbit in hot bacon fat;
  remove browned pieces. Repeat with remaining rabbit. Remove all but 2
  tablespoons fat.
  Cook and stir shallots and garlic in hot fat in Dutch oven until
  shallots are tender, about 4 minutes. Stir in wine, 1 cup water and
  the instant bouillon. Heat to boiling. Stir in jelly, peppercorns,
  bay leaf, rosemary and thyme. Return rabbit and bacon to Dutch oven.
  Heat to boiling; reduce heat. Cover and simmer until rabbit is
  tender, about 1 1/2 hours.
  Remove bay leaf and discard. Place rabbit on warm platter; keep warm
  while preparing gravy. Stir lemon juice into liquid in Dutch oven.
  Shake 3 tablespoons water and 2 tablespoons flour in covered jar.
  Stir flour 1/2 teaspoon dried thyme leaves in cheesecloth bag.
  stir 1 minute. (If gravy is too thick, stir in more water until of
  desired consistency.) Serve gravy with rabbit.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SALMON STEAK BAKE
 Categories: Main dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 pk Frozen salmon steaks(12oz)
    1/8 ts Ground pepper
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Butter or margarine,melted
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 tb Water,cold
    1/2 c  Seedless green grapes
 
  Heat oven to 475'. Place frozen salmon steaks in buttered baking dish,
  12x8x2 inches. Sprinkle with salt and pepper; brush with melted
  butter. Bake uncovered 15 minutes.
  While steaks are baking, heat wine, onion and lemon juice to boiling
  in 1 1/2-quart saucepan; reduce heat. Simmer uncovered 5 minutes.
  Stir water into cornstarch; stir into wine sauce. Heat to boiling.
  Boil and stir 1 minute. Stir in grapes. Spoon sauce over salmon. Bake
  uncovered 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SCALLOPED CORN DELUXE
 Categories: Side dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Ears fresh corn
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Finely chopped green pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 c  Rose wine
    1/2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese*
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ga Cold water
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 ds Ground pepper
    1/4 c  Milk
      1    Egg,slightly beaten
    1/3 c  Cracker crumbs
 
  Heat corn, sugar, lemon juice and water to boiling in Dutch oven or
  large kettle. Boil uncovered 2 minutes. Remove from heat; let stand
  10 minutes. Cut enough kernels from ears to measure 2 cups.
  Heat oven to 350'. Melt 2 tablespoons butter or margarine in 8-inch
  skillet. Cook and stir onion and green pepper in butter until onion is
  tender. Remove from heat. Stir in flour, salt, paprika, mustard and
  pepper. Cook over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is hot
  and bubbly. Remove from heat.
  Gradually stir wine and milk into flour mixture. Heat to boiling,
  stirring until ready to use. When ready to fill, remove jars from
  water and drain.
  Pour in ungreased 1-quart casserole.
  Melt 1 tablespoon butter. Remove from heat. Stir in cracker crumbs.
  Sprinkle crumbs evenly over corn mixture. Bake uncovered until
  bubbly, 30 to 35 minutes.
  *NOTE: Cheddar cheese MUST be in its natural form.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CRANBERRY-ORANGE SALAD MOLD
 Categories: Side dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Lemon flavored gelatin(4oz)
    3/4 c  Boiling water
      1    Orange
           Salad greens
      1 pk Unflavored gelatin
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
      1 cn Whole cranberry sauce(16oz)
           Mayonnaise or salad dressing
 
  Mix gelatins. Pour boiling water on gelatin; Stir until dissolved.
  Stir in wine. Grate peel of orange. Pare and section orange. Cut up
  orange sections; place in blender with grated peel. Cover and puree.
  Stir orange puree into gelatin mixture; cool slightly.
  Break up cranberry sauce with fork; stir into gelatin mixture. Pour
  into six 2/3-cup molds. Refrigerate until firm, at least 4 hours.
  Unmold onto salad greens; serve with mayonnaise.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FILETS DE SOLE VERONIQUE (SOLE WITH GREEN GRAPES)
 Categories: Main dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Finely chopped shallots
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 cn Seedless green grapes(16oz)
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 lb Sole fillets,fresh or frozen
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
 
  Sprinkle shallots in 10-inch skillet (use pyrosyran, non-stick finish,
  enamel or stainless (not aluminum)). Sprinkle fillets with salt and
  pepper. Fold in half; arrange in skillet. Add wine, lemon juice and
  reserved grape liquid. Heat to boiling; reduce heat. Cover and simmer
  until fillets flake easily, 4 to 5 minutes. Remove fillets with
  slotted spatula to ovenproof platter. Keep warm while preparing
  sauce.
  Add grapes to liquid in skillet. Heat to boiling; reduce heat. Simmer
  uncovered 3 minutes. Remove grapes with slotted spoon.
  Heat liquid in skillet to boiling; boil until reduced to 1 cup. Melt 2
  tablespoons butter. Stir in flour. Stir flour mixture, a small amount
  at a time, into reduced liquid. Cook over low heat, stirring
  constantly, until thickened. Remove from heat. Stir in cream. Heat to
  boiling. Add 2 tablespoons butter; stir until melted. Drain excess
  liquid from platter if necessary. Spoon sauce over fillets.
  Set oven control to broil and/or 550'. Broil fillets just until sauce
  is glazed, about 3 minutes. Garnish with grapes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SAUCED SHRIMP
 Categories: Main dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 qt Water
      1    Lemon,sliced
      1 ts Mixed pickling spice
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 cn Whole tomatoes(16oz)
      2 tb Snipped parsley
      1 ts Salt
      4 c  Cook rice or bulghur
      1    Medium onion,sliced
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 pk Frozen peeled shrimp
      1 c  Grated onion
    3/4 c  Dry white wine
      1    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
 
  Heat water, onion slices, lemon, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and the pickling
  spice to boiling in Dutch oven. Add frozen shrimp. Heat to boiling.
  Remove from heat. Let stand 3 minutes; drain. Remove shrimp from
  onion-spice mixture; reserve shrimp.
  Heat oil in 10-inch skillet. Cook and stir grated onion in hot oil
  until tender. Stir in tomatoes, wine, parsley, bay leaf, 1 teaspoon
  salt and the pepper. Heat to boiling; reduce heat. Simmer uncovered
  15 minutes. Add reserved shrimp; heat through. Serve over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEGETABLE MARINADE
 Categories: Side dish, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Frozen caulifrower(10oz)
      1    Tomato,cut into wedges
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Garlic salt
      1    Cucumber,pared and sliced
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Ground pepper
      6    Lettuce cups
 
  Cook cauliflower as directed on package; drain and refrigerate until
  chilled. Place cauliflower, cucumber and tomato in bowl.
  Mix oil, wine, lemon juice, salt, pepper and garlic salt; pour over
  vegetables. Cover and refrigerate, stirring occasionally, at least 12
  hours but no longer than 24 hours. Serve in lettuce cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CATFISH & CRAWFISH MOLD
 Categories: Cajun/creol
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped parsley
      1 c  Cream cheese
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
           Salt, to taste
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 lb Catfish meat, cooked
      1 ts Louisiana hot sauce
      1 lb Crawfish meat, cooked
      1 tb Lea & Perrins
 
  Chop catfish and crawfish in food processor. Add wine, parsley, lemon
  juice, and salt. Mix real well. Add hot sauce and Lea & Perrins
  Worcestershire sauce. Mix well. Add cream cheese. Mix well.
  Refrigerate overnight in a mold. Serve with crackers or on a bed of
  lettuce. You can use shrimp if crawfish aren't available.
  From Justin Wilson's "Outdoor Cooking With Inside Help"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GLAZED RADISHES, CARROTS, AND PEAS
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
     18 oz Radishes
      3 cn Carrots,small,whole(16 oz)
     20 oz Peas,frozen
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
  Drain cans of carrots.
  1. In 6-quart saucepot over medium heat, heat butter or margarine,
  water, lemon juice, and radishes to boiling. Reduce heat to low;
  cover and simmer 30 minutes, stirring often, or until radishes are
  tender.
  2. Drain the carrots. Add carrots and remaining ingredients; cook 10
  minutes, stirring occasionally, or until carrots and peas are heated
  through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HONEY-AND-SPICE GLAZE
 Categories: Herbs/spice
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2    Lemons,medium-size
    1/2 c  Honey
      2 tb Mixed pickling spice,crushed
      2 ts Salt
 
  1. Remove peel from 2 lemons; trim off as much white membrane as
  possible. Cut peel lengthwise into thin strips. From lemon, squeeze 3
  tablespoon juice.
  2. In 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, cook lemon peel and juice,
  honey, mixed pickling spice, and salt aboput 5 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FLOUNDER IN LEMON-DILL SAUCE
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Dill,fresh,chopped
    3/4 ts Dill weed
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Green onion,med,thin sliced
      1 lb Flounder fillets
           Lemon slices for garnish
 
  1. In 10-inch skillet over medium-low heat, heat first 5 ingredients,
  stirring occasionally, until butter or margarine is melted and hot.
  2. If flounder fillets are large, cut into serving-sized pieces. Add
  flounder to butter mixture in skillet; cover and cook 5-8 minutes,
  until flounder flakes easily when tested with a fork, basting flounder
  occasionally with butter mixture in skillet.
  3. Arrange flounder with its sauce in warm deep platter. Garnish with
  lemon slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ROAST CHICKEN WITH LEMON ZEST AND GREEN OLIVES
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      2    Whole chickens (3-lbs ea)
      2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Paprika
      2    Bay leaves; crumbled
      2    Cloves garlic; minced
      1    Large onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Minced parsley
    1/2 c  Minced cilantro
    1/4 ts Saffron, optional
           Salt
           Freshly ground pepper
           Water or chicken stock
      1 cn Pitted green olives (6oz cn)
           - drained
           Julienned zest of 2 lemons
 
     Heat olive oil in Dutch oven or roasting pan and place chickens,
  breast down, in pan.
     Combine ginger, paprika, bay leaves, garlic, onion, parsley,
  cilantro and saffrom in bowl.  Spread mixture over chickens and
  season to taste with salt and pepper.  Add enough water to cover
  chickens halfway. Place over high heat and bring to boil.
     Remove pan from heat and place in 400-degree oven.  Bake,
  uncovered, for 30 minutes.  Turn chickens and continue baking until
  very tender and golden brown, about 30 minutes.
     Transfer chickens to serving platter.  Place pan on stove top and
  heat remaining juices to boil.  Add olives and lemon zest.  Reduce
  heat to low and simmer 5 minutes.  Spoon sauce over chickens and
  serve. Makes 8 servings.
  
     Each serving contains about: 419 calories; 256 mg sodium; 130 mg
  cholesterol; 28 grams fat; 2 grams carbohydrates; 33 grams protein;
  0.23 gram fiber.
  
  Printed in the December 17, 1992, issue of the Los Angeles Times.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: POLLO ALLA DIAVOLA (DEVIL'S CHICKEN)
 Categories: Italian, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    3 - 4 lb chicken
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Hot pepper sauce *
      2    Lemons, juice only
      1 tb Black pepper, freshly ground
      1 ts Salt
           Pepper to taste
 
  *  Tabasco or the like
  
  Using poultry shears, cut the bird open by cutting down the backbone.
  Flatten a bit by pounding with your hand so that the chicken is
  "butterflied."
  
  Mix the remaining ingredients in a large bowl and marinate the bird
  for 2 hours.
  
  Grill on a medium-hot charcoal barbecue, skin side down, for 25
  minutes. Turn and cook until the juices run clear, about another 20
  minutes. Keep basting with the remaining marinade.
  
    -- from THE FRUGAL GOURMET COOKS THREE ANCIENT CUISINES, by Jeff
  Smith
  
  Posted by Hunter Elliot in Intelec Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GABRIELLE CARTERIS'S CHICKEN NEST WITH TOMATOES BEANS & R
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 oz Tomatoes,sun-dried,chopped
     14 oz Chicken broth
      1 c  Rice
      4    Chicken breasts,boneless
      3 oz Lemon juice
      1 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
      2 tb Olive oil
      3    Garlic cloves,peeled/crushed
      6    Shallots,peeled/chopped
    1/2 c  Italian dressing
  1 1/2 oz Green peppercorns
  1 1/2 c  Cooked beans
      2    Red peppers,medium-size
      2 c  Asparagus tips
      1 c  Snow peas
           Lettuce leaves,assorted
 
  1. In a frying pan, saute sun-dried tomatoes in their own oil for five
  minutes, or until tender. Set aside. In a separate pot, bring chicken
  broth to a boil, add rice, and cook, covered, over low heat for 45
  minutes, or until all the broth has been absorbed. Add the sun-dried
  tomatoes to the cooked rice.~ 2. Cut the chicken breasts into thin
  cutlets. Dip in lemon juice and coat with bread crumbs. Heat olive
  oil in a frying pan. Add the garlic and shallots and saute about two
  minutes. Add chicken and brown for about 5 minutes on each side. Mix
  the Italian dressing and the peppercorns and add to the chicken. Keep
  warm.~ 3. Heat the beans and drain the liquid. In a separate pan,
  steam peppers, asparagus, and snow peas for approximately 5 minutes.~
  4. Line a platter with lettuce leaves. Cover with a layer of rice, a
  layer of beans, a layer of vegetables and finally the chicken mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE SHERBET
 Categories: Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Unflavored Gelatin
    1/3 c  Orange Juice
    1/4 c  Cold Water
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream
    3/4 c  Boiling Water
      3 tb Sugar
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Grated Orange Rind
      1    Egg Yolk
    1/3 c  Lemon Juice
      1    Egg White
 
  Sprinkle gelatin on cold water add boiling water and 3/4 cup sugar
  stir until dissolved.  Add orange rind and fruit juices.  Whip cream;
  add remaining sugar and salt.  Beat egg white stiff; fold into cream.
  Fold in fruit juice mixture a little at a time.  Freeze in ice cube
  tray stirring twice during first hour.  Yield: 6 servings.  Serve in
  sherbet glasses with crushed, sugaredstrawberries on top.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STUFFED BONELESS CORNISH HEN W\PORT ORANGE SAUCE
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Cornish Game Hens - 1-1/2 lb
           Salt and pepper
      1    Peel of 1 orange, thinly sli
      1 ts Lemon juice
  1 1/2 oz Orange liqueur (Curacao)
      1 c  Mandarin orange sections
      2 c  Wild rice mix
      2 c  Orange juice
      4 ts Brown sugar
           Cornstarch
           Watercress, bnc
 
  To prepare hens for stuffing, remove the skin from the backbone area
  and set aside. Cut out the backbone, open the hen and remove all
  bones except the drumsticks. Boil the wild rice until tender, cool
  and stuff hens. Close the hen with drumsticks in the air and use the
  skin from the backbone to wrap the hen so it will stand in the baking
  pan breast side up. Season hens with salt and pepper. Roast at 350F
  for 45 minutes to 1 hour.~ ~ SAUCE: Combine the orange juice, lemon
  juice and brown sugar in a saucepan and bring to a boil. Use
  cornstarch mixed with a little water to achieve desired thickness.
  Stir in liqueur and peel and keep warm.~ ~ Chef Tommy Chan of
  Smugglers Inn - Calgary Sun - Monday, June 18/90
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOYA BEAN PATTIES
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Cooked soya beans
    1/3    Onion
    1/3 tb Tomato paste
    2/3 ts Chilli sauce
    2/3 tb Chopped parsley
    1/3 c  Wholemeal breadcrumbs
    1/3    Egg
   1/16 c  Milk
    1/3 c  Dry breadcrumbs
      1 tb Sesame seeds
    1/3 c  Plain wholemeal flour
           Oil

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
    2/3    Garlic cloves
   3/16 c  Tahini
   1/16 c  Water
   3/16 c  Lemon juice
 
  1 Mash the beans using a potato masher.
    Add the onion, tomato paste, chilli sauce, parsley and fresh
    wholemeal breadcrumbs.
    Mix well to combine.
    Divide the mixture into 4 even proportions.
    Shape into rounds and flatten with your fingers to form pattie
  shapes.
  
  2 Combine the egg and milk in one bowl, and breadcrumbs and sesame
  seeds
    in another bowl.
    Roll the patties in the flour then dip each one into combined egg
  and
    milk mixture and then coat with the dry breadcrumbs and sesame seed
    mixture.
  
  3 Heat the oil in a large shallow pan. Cook the patties on a medium
  heat
    until they are golden brown on both sides.
    Drain on absorbent paper.
    Set aside and keep warm.
  
  4 To prepare the sauce combine all the ingredients in a small bowl.
  Serve
    the patties hot accompanied by the tahini sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEGETABLE AND COCONUT CURRY
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Indian, Curries, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 servings
 
     15 g  Butter
    1/2 l  Onion
      1    Green chillis
      1    Garlic cloves
      1 ts Grated ginger
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/2 ts Ground cardamom
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 c  Coconut milk
      1    Strips of lemon rind
 62 1/2 g  Green beans
    1/2    Green pepper
    1/2    Red pepper
    1/4    Cauliflower
  1 1/2    Zucchini (courgettes)
 62 1/2 g  Yellow squash
      2 l  Potatoes
    1/4 c  Coconut cream
    1/4 c  Coriander leaves
 
  Preparation: Finely chop the green chillis
  :            Crush the garlic clove
  :            Trim the green beans
  :            Cut the peppers into strips
  :            Cut the cauliflower into florets
  :            Cut the zucchini into rounds
  :            Cut the yellow squash into halves
  :            Dice the potatoes
  :            Chop the coriander leaves
  
  1 In a large heavy based pan melt the butter over a low heat.
    Add the onion, chilli, garlic and ginger
    Cook for 3-4 minutes until the onions are soft
    Add the cardomom, turmeric and cinnamon and cook , stirring, for
    2-3 minutes.
  
  2 Add the coconut milk and lemon rind.
    Simmer gently , uncovered, for 10 minutes.
    Add the vegetables and cook, uncovered, until the vegetables are
  just
    tender
  
  3 Add the coconut cream and simmer for a further 5 minutes.
    Serve on a large platter, garnished with fresh coriander leaves.
  
  Any combination of vegetables may be used for this korma-like curry.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GLAZED BARBECUED BEEF BRISKET
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4 lb Beef brisket
           Water

MMMMM-------------------HONEY-AND-SPICE GLAZE------------------------
      2    Lemons,medium-size
    1/2 c  Honey
      2 tb Mixed pickling spice,crushed
      2 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------APPLE-MUSTARD GLAZE-------------------------
      1 pk Apple jelly(11oz)
    1/3 c  White wine,dry
      3 tb Green onions,minced
      3 tb Mustard,prepared
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Pepper,cracked

MMMMM-----------------------APRICOT GLAZE----------------------------
      1 cn Apricot halves,drained(17oz)
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb Salad oil
      2 tb White vinegar
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Cloves,ground
 
  1. In 5- to 8-quart saucepot over high heat, heat brisket and enough
  water to cover brisket to boiling. Reduce heat to low; cover and
  simmer 2 to 2 1/2 hours, until meat is fork-tender. Remove meat to
  plate; cover and refrigerate.
  2. About 1 hour before serving, prepare outdoor grill for barbecuing.
  Meanwhile, prepare one of the glazes.
  3. Place brisket on grill over medium-low heat; cook 30 minutes or
  until heated through, brushing with glaze and turning occasionally.
  TO BAKE IN OVEN: Early in day or day ahead, precook beef brisket as
  above. About 1 hour before serving, preheat oven to 35'F. Meanwhile,
  prepare one of the glazes. Place brisket in 13x9" baking pan; bake 45
  minutes or until meat is heated through, brushing occasionally with
  glaze.
  *** HONEY-AND-SPICE GLAZE ***
  1. Remove peel from 2 lemons; trim off as much white membrane as
  possible. Cut peel lengthwise into thin strips. From lemon, squeeze 3
  tablespoon juice.
  2. In 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, cook lemon peel and juice,
  honey, mixed pickling spice, and salt aboput 5 minutes.
  *** APPLE-MUSTARD GLAZE ***
  1. In 1-quart saucepan over medium heat, cook jelly, wine, green
  onions, mustard, salt, curry powder, and pepper 5 minutes to melt
  jelly and blend flavors.
  *** APRICOT GLAZE ***
  1. In blender at medium speed or in food processor with knife blade
  attached, blend apricot halves, sugar, oil, vinegar, salt, and cloves
  until smooth. Pour into small bowl.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FLOUNDER FLORENTINE
 Categories: Casseroles, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Onion,chopped
    1/8 ts Rosemary,crushed
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 pk Spinach,frozen,chopped(9.5oz
    1/4 c  Almonds,toasted,chopped
    1/2 c  Rice,cooked
      1 tb Lemon juice,fresh
      6    Flounder fillets,fresh(1.5lb
      1 cn Cream/mushroom soup(10.75oz)
    1/4 c  Water
           Paprika
 
  1. In a saucepan, cook onion with rosemary in butter until tender.
  2. Add spinach, almonds, rice and lemon juice; heat, stirring
  occasionally.
  3. Place 1/4 cup mixture on each fish fillet; roll and secure with
  toothpicks.
  4. Arrange fish rolls in a shallow 112x8x2-inch baking dish; bake in
  preheated 350'F. oven 20 minutes.
  5. Meanwhile, blend soup and water; set aside.
  6. Pour soup over baked fish, stirring around sides; bake 15 minutes
  longer, or until done.
  7. Sprinkle with paprika and serve piping hot.
  NOTE: Flounder Florentine can be prepared in advance and refrigerated
  before you bake-and-serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PEAS 'N' SALMON LOAF
 Categories: Casseroles, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 cn Salmon,drained(15.5oz ea)
      2    Eggs,beaten
      1 tb Onion,chopped
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Cracker crumbs,fine
      1 cn Peas,drained(8.5oz)
    1/4 c  Tomato catsup
 
  1. Combine in a mixing bowl salmon, eggs, onion, lemon juice, salt and
  cracker crumbs.
  2. Carefully fold in peas.
  3. Pack into a greased 1 1/2-quart loaf pan; bake in a preheated
  350'F. oven 30 minutes.
  4. Spread loaf with catsup; bake 5 minutes longer.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SALMON-RICE PIE WITH OLIVE SAUCE
 Categories: Casseroles, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 cn Salmon,flaked(15.5oz)
      2 c  Rice,hot cooked
      2 tb Parsley,minced
      1 tb Onion,minced
    1/2 c  Celery,minced
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts White pepper
      3    Eggs,beaten
      5    Olives,pimiento-stuffed(opt)

MMMMM------------------------OLIVE SAUCE-----------------------------
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Mustard
    1/2 c  Olives,pimiento-stuffed,slic
 
  1. Combine salmon with rice in a large mixing bowl.
  2. Add parsley, onion, celery, lemon juice, salt and pepper; blend in
  eggs.
  3. Pour into buttered, deep 10-inch pie pan; bake in preheated 350'F.
  oven 45 minutes.
  4. Garnish with olive slices; serve in wedges with Olive Sauce.
  *** OLIVE SAUCE ***
  1. Melt butter in a heavy saucepan over low heat.
  2. Add milk slowly, stirring constantly, cooking until thickened.
  3. Remove from heat; add salt, mustard and olive slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE-SCALLOP RAMEKINS
 Categories: Casseroles, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Onion,minced
      1 lb Bay scallops
      2    Apples,Granny Smith,med-size
      1 cn Mushrooms,sliced,drained(3oz
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Parsley,minced
    1/2 ts Basil,dried
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Milk
      2 tb Bread crumbs,plain,dry
 
  1. Melt 1 tablespoon butter in large skillet.
  2. Add onion; saute until tender.
  3. Add scallops, apples, mushrooms, lemon juice, parsley, basil and
  salt; cook over medium heat, 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
  4. Meanwhile, melt 2 tablespoons butter in a small saucepan; blend in
  flour.
  5. Remove from heat; stir in milk.
  6. Return to medium heat; cook, stirring constantly, until thickened.
  7. Add sauce to scallop mixture in skillet; mix well.
  8. Spoon into 4 buttered ramekins.
  9. Combine remaining butter with bread crumbs; sprinkle over
  scallops.
  10. Place under broiler; broil 3 to 4 minutes, or until crumbs are
  golden.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP & TOMATOES WITH SAVORY RICE
 Categories: Casseroles, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Rice,uncooked
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      1    Bay leaf
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Tarragon,crushed
    1/8 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Onion,chopped
      1    Garlic clove,minced/pressed
    1/4 lb Mushrooms,fresh,sliced
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp,medium-size
      1 cn Artichoke hearts(14oz)
      4    Tomatoes,med,fresh,wedged
      2 tb Lemon juice,fresh
    1/4 c  Parsley,chopped
 
  1. Combine in a medium-size saucepan rice, broth 1 tablespoon butter,
  bay leaf, salt, tarragon and paprika; bring to a rolling boil.
  2. Reduce heat to low; cover and simmer 12 to 15 minutes, or until all
  liquid is absorbed.
  3. Remove from heat; let stand, covered, 10 minutes.
  4. Meanwhile, melt the remaining butter in a skillet.
  5. Add onion and garlic; cook until almost tender.
  6. Add mushrooms; cook 1 to 2 minutes.
  7. Stir in shrimp, artichoke hearts and tomatoes; drain.
  8. Remove bay leaf from rice; fluff rice with fork.
  9. Add rice, lemon juice and parsley to shrimp mixture; spoon into
  buttered 1 1/2-quart casserole.
  10. Keep hot in preheated 300'F. oven until ready to serve; allow 12
  to 15 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SECOND-TIME CASSEROLE
 Categories: Casseroles, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Onion,chopped
      3 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Tabasco pepper sauce
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
      1 pk Spinach,chopped,frozen(10oz)
      4    Potatoes,Idaho,baked/chilled
    1/2 lb Ham,cooked,chopped(1.5c)
 
  1. Melt butter in a medium-size saucepan; add onion and cook until
  tender.
  2. Blend in flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt and Tabasco sauce.
  3. Stir in milk, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens and
  comes to a boil.
  4. Remove from heat; stir in lemon juice, nutmeg and spinach.
  5. Peel cooked potatoes; cut into 1/8-inch slices.
  6. Place a layer of potatoes in a greased 2-quart casserole; sprinkle
  with 1/4 teaspoon salt.
  7. Sprinkle with half the ham and half the spinahc sauce.
  8. Repeat with remaining potatoes, remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt, ham
  and sauce.
  9. Cover and bake in preheated 375'F. oven 45 minutes, or until heated
  through.
  NOTE: To bake potatoes: Scrub, dry and prick with a fork. Bake in
  preheated 425'F. oven 55 to 65 minutes, or until soft. Chill before
  slicing.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SYBIL CARTER'S BARBECUE SAUCE
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 32 servings
 
      3 tb Bacon fat
      1    Onion,peeled/chopped
      1    Garlic clove,peeled/minced
    1/2 c  Green pepper,chopped
      1 cn Tomatoes,canned (16 oz)
      2 tb Tomato paste
      1 c  Water
      4 tb Brown sugar
      2 ts Mustard,dry
      1    Lemon,quarterd
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      1 ts Salt
      3 ds Red pepper sauce
 
  1. Heat bacon fat in a large heavy pot over low heat; saute onion,
  garlic, and green pepper until limp. Add remaining ingredients, blend
  well, bring to simmering, then lower heat and cook slowly until
  thick. Remove and discard lemon quarters. This sauce keeps well in
  the refrigerator, and Sybil often doubles the recipe to have on hand
  to use whenever a barbecue recipe is called for. Heat well before
  using. Baste over meat during last 15 minutes of cooking, and, if
  desired, spoon over cooked meat before serving.
  2. Excellent for chicken, spareribs, pork chops, hamburgers, hot dogs,
  steaks and kabobs - just about any barbecued meat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LOBSTER PARISIENNE
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Lobster tails,cooked/chilled
      6 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Mustard,prepared
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Tarragon wine vinegar
      1 tb Chives,finely minced
      1 tb Parsley,finely minced
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
 
  1. Remove lobster meat from tails. Reserve tails. Chop meat into
  bite-sized pieces. Combine remaining ingredients and blend well. Add
  chopped lobster, blend with a fork, and refrigerate until chilled.
  2. To serve, stuff lobster tails with chilled lobster mixture. Serve
  as first course on lettuce-lined small plates.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: DOVES COOKED WITH WINE AND MUSHROOMS
 Categories: Main dish, Game
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     12    Doves,ready-to-cook,or quail
           Water
           Butter
      1    Juice of lemon
           Worcestershire sauce
           Sherry wine
      4 cn Button mushrooms (3 oz)*

MMMMM-------------------------DOVE SAUCE------------------------------
      3 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1    Mushroom liquid*
    1/2 c  Sherry
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
           Water**
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  * - drain mushrooms, and reserve liquid for sauce.
  1. Preheat oven to 400'F.
  2. Open doves or quail down the backs, leaving breast whole. Place
  breast side up, not touching, in a single layer in a roasting pan.
  Pour in sufficient water to just cover bottom of pan. Cover pan and
  steam bake for 30 minutes. Turn birds breast side down. Dot each
  liberally with butter. Sprinkle with lemon juice, Worcestershire
  sauce, and sherry. Cover and continue to bake for about 1 hour, or
  until birds are tender. Check every 15 minutes. If necessary, add a
  little more water.
  3. When birds are tender, pour off and reserve liquid for sauce. Add
  mushrooms to pan, cover, and keep warm while preparing sauce.
  *** DOVE SAUCE ***
  * - from reserved mushrooms.
  ** - enough to make 2 cups liquid.
  Melt butter in a heavy saucepan. Add flour and cook over very low
  heat, stirring constantly until mixture forms a deep golden roux.
  Combine and add liquids, stirring as added. Cook, stirring, until
  thick and smooth. Season with salt and pepper and pour over cooked
  birds. Let stand in a 200'F. oven for 15-20 minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED HAWAIIAN FISH WITH PAPAYA RELISH
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Hawaiian fish*
    1/2 c  Fresh cilantro leaves
           Salt
           Pepper

MMMMM-----------------------PAPAYA RELISH----------------------------
    1/4 c  Minced white onion
  1 1/4 c  Diced ripe papaya
    3/4 c  Diced red bell pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
      1 tb Minced fresh ginger
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
 
  * - cut into 6 equal portions
  ======================================================================
  ===
  Arrange papaya relish and hot fish equally on 6 warm plates. Garnish
  plates with cilantro. Add salt and pepper to taste.
  
  *** PAPAYA RELISH ***
  In a fine strainer, rinse white onion. Soak onion in ice water for 30
  minutes; drain. Mix with rest of relish ingredients.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED HAWAIIAN FISH IN BASIL-COCONUT CURRY SAUCE
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Hawaiian fish*
           Fresh basil sprigs
           Salt

MMMMM-----------------BASIL-COCONUT CURRY SAUCE----------------------
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
  1 1/2 tb Minced fresh ginger
    1/4 c  Minced fresh lemon grass*
      1 tb Dried kaffir lime leaves**
      2 ts Red curry paste (follows)
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1 c  Canned coconut milk

MMMMM----------------------RED CURRY PASTE---------------------------
      1    Large CA or NM chili
      1    Garlic clove,minced
      2 ts Salad oil
    1/2 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Ground cumin
      1    Seeds of cardamom pod
 
  * - cut into 6 eaual pieces, grilled
  ======================================================================
  ===
  Spoon sauce equally onto 6 warm plates; set fish in sauce and garnish
  with basil. Add salt to taste.
  
  *** BASIL-COCONUT CURRY SAUCE ***
  * - or 2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
  ** - or chopped fresh lemon leaves
  ======================================================================
  ===
  1. In a 1 1/2 to 2 quart pan on high heat, bring to a boil white wine,
  fresh ginger, fresh lemon grass (or lemon peel), kaffir lime leaves
  and red curry paste. Simmer, covered, for 15 minutes.
  2. In a blender, whirl mixture with cornstarch and coconut milk until
  smooth. Return to pan (with 1 tablespoon dried basil leaves if not
  using fresh, following). Stir sauce over high heat until boiling. If
  made ahead, chill airtight up to 1 day. Reheat to simmering; if
  needed, add coconut milk to thin. Stir in fresh basil leaves. Use
  hot.
  
  *** RED CURRY PASTE ***
  NOTE: Use purchased Thai Muslim curry paste or all of this mixture.
  Rinse chili; stem, seed and break into small pieces. In a 6-8" frying
  pan over medium heat, stir garlic in salad oil until golden, about 2
  minutes. Add chili, coriander, cumin, and cardamom pod seeds. Stir
  just until chili browns lightly, about 45 seconds. Use hot or cold.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIL-COCONUT CURRY SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
  1 1/2 tb Minced fresh ginger
    1/4 c  Minced fresh lemon grass*
      1 tb Dried kaffir lime leaves**
      2 ts Red curry paste (follows)
      2 ts Cornstarch
      1 c  Canned coconut milk
 
  * - or 2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
  ** - or chopped fresh lemon leaves
  ======================================================================
  ===
  1. In a 1 1/2 to 2 quart pan on high heat, bring to a boil white wine,
  fresh ginger, fresh lemon grass (or lemon peel), kaffir lime leaves
  and red curry paste. Simmer, covered, for 15 minutes.
  2. In a blender, whirl mixture with cornstarch and coconut milk until
  smooth. Return to pan (with 1 tablespoon dried basil leaves if not
  using fresh, following). Stir sauce over high heat until boiling. If
  made ahead, chill airtight up to 1 day. Reheat to simmering; if
  needed, add coconut milk to thin. Stir in fresh basil leaves. Use
  hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: WATERCRESS SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Watercress,packed,chopped
    3/4 c  Unflavored nonfat yogurt
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Dried tarragon leaves
      1    Garlic clove
      2 ts Fish sauce or anchovy paste
 
  In a blender or food processor, combine watercress, yogurt,
  mayonnaise, lemon juice, tarragon, and garlic; whirl until smooth.
  Add fish sauce to taste; whirl to blend. (If sauce is made ahead,
  cover and chill up to a day.) Makes about 1 1/2 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HAROLD'S PIG AND ROOTS
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Boned pork shoulder
      1 tb Minced fresh sage
      3 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/4 lb Carrots,peeled/cut into 2"
      1 lb Russet potatoes,peel/quarter
      1 lb Turnips,peeled and quartered
      1 lb Parsnips,peeled & quartered
      1    Lg hd grn cabbage,core/quart
  1 1/2 tb Cornstarch
    1/3 c  Water
           Salt
           Pepper

MMMMM----------------------RICH PORK STOCK---------------------------
           Pork bones
      2    Large onion,chopped
      2    Large carrots,cut in pieces
    1/2 c  Water
      1 qt Water
      2    Celery stalks,cut in pieces
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves
 
  1. Have your market trim pork of fat, then bone, roll, and tie the
  meat, saving the bones (or do this yourself).
  2. Place meat in a 5-6 quart ovenproof pan on medium-high heat. Turn
  often until meat is well browned all over, about 10 minutes. Add
  stock, sage, and lemon juice; stir to scrape browned bits from pan.
  Cover very tightly and bake in a 325'F. oven for 1 hour.
  3. Add carrots and potatoes to meat. Cover and bake until vegetables
  are barely tender when pierced, about 20 minutes. Add turnips and
  parsnips; cover and bake until all vegetables are tender when
  pierced, about 40 minutes longer.
  4. When vegetables are done, place cabbage in a 10-12" frying pan
  with 1/2" water. Bring water to boiling over high heat, cover, and
  simmer until cabbage is tender when pierced, about 10 minutes.
  5. Transfer meat and vegetables to a large platter; keep warm. Skim
  fat from pan juices; bring juices to a boil over high heat. Add
  cornstar mixed with 1/3 cup water and bring to a second boil,
  stirring. Pour into a small pitcher. Slice meat and serve with
  vegetables; add gravy and salt and pepper to taste.
  
  *** RICH PORK STOCK ***
  1. Place reserved pork bones in a 10x15" pan with onions and carrots.
  Roast in a 450'F. oven, mixing occasionally, until bones are well
  browned, 40-50 minutes.
  2. Add 1/2 cup water to pan; stir vigorously to free browned bits.
  Scrape mixture into a 5-6 quart pan. Add 1 quart water, celery, and
  thyme. Bring to a boil over high heat, then cover and simmer for 1
  1/2 hours.
  3. Uncover pan and boil over high heat until liquid is reduced to 2
  1/2 cups, about 10 minutes. Pour mixture through a fine strainer into
  a bowl. Discard bones and vegetables. If stock is made ahead, cool,
  cover, and chill up to 2 days. Skim or lift off fat and discard.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON OMELET-SOUFFLE
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     11 tb Sugar
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Orange juice
      2 ts Cornstarch
      6    Large egg whites
      2    Large egg yolks
    3/4 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/2 ts Vanilla
           Sweetened light sour cream*
           Vanilla nonfat yogurt*
 
  1. In a 9"-wide ovenproof frying pan (attractive enough for serving)
  or in a cake pan, combine 3 tablespoons sugar, lemon and orange
  juices, and cornstarch; set aside.
  2. In a large bowl, beat egg whites on high speed until foamy, then
  gradually beat in 6 tablespoons sugar until whites hold stiff peaks.
  3. In another bowl, beat egg yolks until thick with remaining 2
  tablespoons sugar, peel, and vanilla. Fold yolks into whites.
  4. Over high heat, stir citrus juice mixture until boiling. Off the
  heat, spoon egg mixture in large dollops into the hot sauce.
  5. Bake in a 350'F. oven until omelet-souffle is golden brown and
  jiggles only slightly in the center when gently shaken, 15-20
  minutes. Spoon sauce out with souffle; souffle center may be slightly
  creamy. Offer sour cream to add to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PASILLA CHILI AIOLI
 Categories: Fish, Salsa/sauce, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Large dried pasilla chili
      1 cn Sliced pimientos (4 oz)
      1 tb Olive oil
      1    Chopped garlic clove
      3 tb Dry white wine
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  1. Remove and discard stems and seeds from dried pasilla; rinse
  chili. With scissors, cut the chili in 1/2" pieces.
  2. Drain pimientos; pat dry.
  3. In a 10-12" frying pan combine olive oil, chili, pimientos and
  garlic. Stir over medium heat for 2 minutes. Add wine and lemon
  juice. Stir over high heat until most of the liquid evaporates, about
  1 minute. Add chicken broth; boil, uncovered, until liquid is reduced
  to 1/4 cup, about 2 minutes. Let cool.
  4. Whirl mixture in a blender or food processor with mayonnaise until
  smoothly pureed. Add salt and pepper to taste. Makes 1/2 cup.
  
  ~ Anton Brunbauer, Hyatt Regency Scottsdale, Scottsdale AZ
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TURKEY WALDORF SANDWICH
 Categories: Sandwich
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  BEST FOODS Mayonnaise
    1/3 c  Chopped celery
    1/3 c  Chopped walnuts
      1 ts Lemon juice
           Lettuce
    3/4 lb Sliced turkey
           Apple slices
 
  Combine mayonnaise, celery, walnuts, and lemon juice. Layer lettuce,
  turkey, apple slices, and mayonnaise mixture between toased bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GREEK PORK PITA POCKETS
 Categories: Sandwich
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Boneless pork loin
      4 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Prepared mustard
      2    Minced garlic cloves
      1 ts Dried oregano
      1 c  Plain yogurt
      1    Chopped peeled cucumber
    1/2 ts Crushed garlic
    1/2 ts Dill weed
      4    Pita pockets
 
  1. Cut pork loin into thin strips. Combine olive oil, lemon juice,
  mustard, garlic, and oregano.
  2. Pour over pork. Refrigerate 1-8 hours. Stir together yogurt,
  cucumber, garlic and dill weed. Cover and refrigerate.
  3. Remove pork from marinade. Stir-fry in non-stick pan over medium
  heat for 2-3 minutes. Halve two pita loaves and open to form a
  pocket.
  4. Fill with pork. Top with cucumber mixture. Garnish with chopped red
  onion.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRAPEFRUIT WITH A TWIST
 Categories: Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Sugar
      6    Thin strips lemon peel,1-2"
      3    Large ruby/yellow grapefruit
           Citrus leaves,rinsed/patted
           Gin or orange juice
           Lemon wedges
 
  The aromatic flavor of gin, which comes from juniper berries,
  complements the bitter-tart taste of grapefruit. Use orange juice as
  a non-alcoholic option.
  ======================================================================
  ===
  1. In a 3-4 cup pan, combine sugar and 2/3 cup water. Boil,
  uncovered, over high heat until reduced to 1/2 cup. Gently twist
  lemon peel and drop into syrup; let col. If made ahead, cover and
  chill up to 3 days.
  2. With a sharp knife, cut peel and all white membrane from
  grapefruit. Over a bowl, cut between membranes to release fruit
  segments; squeeze juice from membrane into bowl. Discard membrane. If
  made ahead, cover and let stand up to 3 hours.
  3. Spoon fruit, juice, and syrup equally into 6 dessert bowls.
  Garnish with leaves. To each portion add to taste about 1 tablespoon
  gin or orange juice, and juice from lemon wedges.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: COCONUT ROCKFISH
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sweetened shredded coconut,
           -dried
      1 tb Minced or pressed garlic
    3/4 c  Sliced green onions
  2 1/2 tb Olive oil
  2 3/4 c  Freshly cut corn kernels
           -OR
  2 3/4 c  Frozen corn kernels
      1 c  Minced red bell pepper
      1 cn Black ripe olives, sliced/
           -pitted,drained
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
  1 1/2 lb Rockfish fillets,1/2" thick,
           -cut into 6 portions
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Lemon wedges
           Parsley sprigs
           Salt
           Pepper
 
  In a 3-4 quart pan over medium heat, stir coconut until golden, 3-5
  minutes. Remove from pan; set aside.
  
  Add garlic, onions, and 1 tablespoon oil to pan; stir often over
  medium heat until onions are limp, 3-5 minutes. Add corn, bell
  pepper, olives, and 2 tablespoons water; cook, covered, until corn is
  tender to bite, about 5 minutes. Mix in chopped parsley; keep relish
  warm.
  
  Rinse fish and pat dry. Rub fillets with lemon juice and remaining 1
  1/2 tablespoons oil. Arrange in a single layer in a 12x17" broiler
  pan (without rack). Broil about 3" from heat for 3 minutes. Turn fish
  over; broil until opaque still moist-looking in center of thickest
  part (cut to test), 2-3 minutes longer. Transfer to a warm platter.
  
  Spoon corn relish onto platter; sprinkle coconut over fish. Garnish
  with lemon wedges and parsley sprigs. Season fish with lemon and salt
  and pepper to taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: WARM RADICCHIO CHEESE PUDDLES
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 ts Extra-virgin olive oil
      2 ts Lemon juice
      6 lg Radicchio leaves,rinsed
           -and dried
      3 oz Teleme or Jack cheese,cut
           -into 1/4" thick slices
           Freshly ground pepper
 
  Mix oil and lemon juice; brush mixture all over radicchio leaves. Set
  leaves, cut side up, in a 9x13" baking dish. Place an equal portion
  of the cheese in each radicchio cup. Sprinkle with pepper.
  
  Bake in a 350'F. oven just until the cheese melts, 4-6 minutes. Serve
  hot or warm.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORIENTAL PLUM-GLAZED CHICKEN
 Categories: Poultry, Asian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Plums for babies,canned
           -pureed
      3 tb Dry white wine
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Firmly packed brown sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Finely chopped green onion,
           -including tops
    1/2 ts Chinese five spice
           -OR
    1/2 ts Ground allspice
      6    Chicken legs,thighs attached
           -skin and fat pulled off
           Fresh cilantro sprigs
 
  Nearly 50 years ago, during the food shortages of World War II, SUNSET
  MAGAZINE deplored the use of canned baby food (always, apparently, in
  good supply) as a substitute for scarcer products. Now after half a
  century, we turn to baby food once again, this time to recommend it
  as a principle ingredient in Maureen W. Valentine's Oriental
  Plum-Glazed Chicken.
  
  Why baby-food plums? They're already pureed, saving preparation time,
  and they're available all year.
  
  ======================================================================
  ====
  
  Mix together plums, wine, soy, sugar, lemon juice, onion, and five
  spice.
  
  Rinse chicken and pat dry. Arrange legs in a 10x15" pan. Brush with
  plum sauce. Bake, uncovered, in a 375'F. oven for 25 minutes. Turn
  chicken pieces over, brush with remaining plum sauce, and continue to
  bake until meat at thigh bone is no longer pink (cut to test), 20-25
  minutes longer. Baste with pan juices during last 10 minutes of
  baking.
  
  Lift Chicken onto a platter and garnish with cilantro. Skim fat from
  pan juices; add 1/4 cup water to pan and stir over high heat just
  until boiling. Serve juices with chicken.
  
  Per serving: 241 calories; 35 grams protein; 6.6 grams fat; (1.7 grams
  saturated fat); 7.3 grams carbohydrates; 495 milligrams sodium; 138
  milligrams cholesterol.
  
  ~ Maureen W. Valentine, Seattle, Washington
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHATEAUBRIAND WITH MARCHAND DE VIN SAUCE
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Whole Tenderloin, About 2
           -1/2 Pounds
    1/2 c  Olive Oil
           Juice Of One Lemon
      1 lg Clove Garlic, Crushed
           Salt And Coarse Ground
           -Pepper, To Taste
      2    To 3 Sprigs Fresh Thyme
           -(Optional)
 
  Yield: 8 to 10 servings
  
  Salt and pepper the steak and rub with a mixture of the oil, lemon
  juice and garlic.  Let sit at room temperature about 1 hour.  Over a
  charcoal (Preferably gas) grill, char the steak over an extremely hot
  fire, 2 to 3 minutes per side.  Remove the steak to a roasting pan
  with a rack in the bottom.  Bake in a preheated 375 degree F.
  preheated oven about 20 minutes per pound for medium rare.  To serve,
  slice thin on the diagonal and serve with Marchand de Vin sauce.
  (Recipe #7)
  
  From Cow Country Cusine By Kathy G. Mc Craine Copyright 1988
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MARCHAND DE VIN SAUCE
 Categories: Meats, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Unbleached Flour
      1 sm Onion Finely Chopped
     10 oz Beef Broth (1 can) PLUS
     10 oz Water (1 can full)
      3 tb Tomato Paste
    1/2 c  Ham, Finely Chopped
    1/2 c  Mushrooms, Chopped
      4 md Shallots Or Green Onions,
           -Finely Chopped
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Dry Red Wine
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      1 tb Fresh Thyme, Chopped (Or 1
           -Tsp Dried)
      1 tb Worcestershire Sauce
 
  Make a roux by stirring 2 Tbls of oil and 2 Tbls of flour in a heavy
  skillet, over medium heat, until chocolate brown.  Add the onion and
  wilt then add the broth, water, tomato paste, ham and mushrooms. Cook
  until thickened and reduced to half, about 30 minutes.  In a small
  pan, saute the shallots in 4 Tbls of butter.  Add the red wine and
  simmer several more minutes.  Add the lemon juice, Worcestershire
  sauce and thyme. Before serving, strain out the solids and serve over
  the steak.
  
  From Cow Country Cusine By Kathy G. Mc Craine Copyright 1988
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: OMAHA FLANK STEAK
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Flank Steak
  1 1/2 c  Salad Oil
    3/4 c  Soy Sauce
    1/4 c  Worcestershire Sauce
      2 tb Dry Mustard
  2 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Black Pepper
    1/2 c  Red Wine Vinegar
  1 1/2 ts Parsley
      2 lg Garlic Cloves, Crushed
    1/3 c  Fresh Lemon Juice
 
  Combine the marinade ingredients and marinate the steak overnight.
  Grill over hot coals and cut on the diagonal and serve.
  
  From Cow Country Cusine By Kathy G. Mc Craine Copyright 1988
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SALMON DELIGHT
 Categories: Casseroles, Cheese/eggs, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Egg; Lg
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 c  Bread Crumbs; Soft
      1 lb Salmon; 1 cn
      1 c  Cheddar; Md, Grated
      1 ts Green Pepper; Grated
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Celery Salt
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder
    1/2 c  Bread Crumbs; Buttered, Fine
 
  Servings:  4
  
  Beat the egg and milk together and add the soft bread crumbs.  Flake
  the salmon, removing the skin and bones, and add to the milk  and
  milk mixture. Add the cheddar cheese and seasonings, blending well.
  Place in a greased casserole and top with the buttered bread crumbs.
  Bake in a preheated 350 degree F. oven for 35 minutes.  May be served
  plain or with your favorite tomato or egg sauce.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SALMON LOAF WITH WHITE SAUCE
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    7 1/2 oz can salmon,drained
           -and flaked
  1 1/2    To 2 - cups diced cooked
           -potatoes
    1/4 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Milk 1 - egg
      3    To 4 - tbsp. chopped chives
    1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
 
  Black pepper to taste Creamy Dijon Sauce
  
  Combine all ingredients except Creamy Dijon Sauce;mix well. Press
  into a lightly greased 1 1/2 quart baking dish. Bake @ 350 degrees
  for 25 minutes or until set.Serve with Creamy Dijon Sauce.Makes 4
  servings.
  
  Creamy Dijon Sauce: Saute 2 tbsp. minced onion in 1 tbsp. EACH:
  vegetable oil and butter until tender.Blend in 1 tbsp. flour; stir in
  1 cup of milk.Cook and stir until thickened.Stir in 1 to 2 tbsp.
  Dijon style mustard.Makes about 1 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: POACHED SALMON WITH HORSERADISH SAUCE
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Low cal/fat, Condiments
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Water
      1    Lemon, sliced
      1    Carrot, sliced
      1    Stalk celery, sliced
      1 ts Peppercorns
      4    (4 oz) salmon steaks
 
  Horseradish Sauce
  
  Combine first 5 ingredients in a large skillet; bring to a boil over
  medium-high heat.  Cover, reduce heat and simmer 10 minutess.  Add
  salmon steaks; cover and simmer 10 minutes.  Remove skillet from
  heat; let stand 8 minutes.  Remove salmon steaks to serving plate;
  serve with Horseradish Sauce.
  
  Yield:  4 servings
  
  (186 calories per 4 oz steak with 2 Tbsp Horseradish Sauce).
  
  23.6 grams protein        7.1 grams fat 14 grams carbohydrate 89 mg
  cholesterol 155 mg sodium 27 mg calcium
  
  Horseradish sauce
  
  1/4 cup reduced calorie mayonnaise 1/4 cup plain nonfat yogurt 2 tsp
  prepared horseradish 1 1/2 tsp lemon juice 1 1/2 tsp chopped chives
  
  Combine all ingredients; cover and chill.
  
  Yield 1/2 cup (25 calories per Tbsp)
  
  0.4 gram protein                1.9 grams fat 1.2 grams carboyhydrate
  2 mg cholesterol 49 mg sodium 15 mg calcium
  
  From Charlotte Moret, St. Louis, MO Source: Southern Living, August
  1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SALMON CAKES OR MUFFINS
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, Kids
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      1    1 lb can of salmon, flaked
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts Tabasco or dash or cayenne
           -pepper
    3/4 c  Cracker meal
      2    Egg whites
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  From "Meals Without Squeals" by Christine Berman & Jacki Fromer.
  
  1.  Mix all ingredients well.
  
  2.  Shape into patties and place on a greased baking sheet or portion
  into greased muffin cups.
  
  3.  Bake at 400 F for about 20 min.
  
  Serves 7 preschool or 5 school-age children 1 meat
  
  Posted by Theresa Merkling.
  
  Courtesy of Shareware PROFESSIONAL RECIPE CLIPPER 2.0
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: POACHED SALMON WITH HOLLANDAISE SAUCE
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      4    Black Peppercorns
      3    Lemon Slices
      3    Parsley Sprigs
      1    Onion; Sm, Sliced
      1    Bay Leaf
      2 lb Salmon Steaks; *
           *HOLLANDAISE SAUCE*
      3    Egg Yolks; Lg
      1 tb Lemon Juice
    1/2 c  Butter; Firm, **
 
  Servings:  4
  
  *      Get four salmon steaks about 1 inch thick. ** DO NOT use
  margarine in this sauce!!
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++
  
  Prepare the Hollandaise Sauce.  Heat the water, salt, peppercorns,
  lemon slices, parsley, onion, and bay leaf to boiling, in a 12-inch
  skillet then reduce the heat.  Cover and simmer 5 minutes.  Place the
  salmon steaks in the skillet, adding water if necessary to cover the
  steaks. Heat to boiling and then reduce the heat.  Simmer uncovered
  12 to 15 minutes or until the fish flakes easily with a fork.  Serve
  with the Hollandaise Sauce.
  
  HOLLANDAISE SAUCE:
  
  Stir the egg yolks and lemon juice vigorously in a 1 1/2-quart
  saucepan. Add 1/4 cup of the butter and stir over very low heat,
  stirring constantly, until the butter is melted.  Add the remaining
  butter. Continue stirring vigorously until the butter is melted and
  the sauce is thickened. (Be sure the butter melts slowly as this
  gives the eggs time to cook and thicken the sauce without curdling.)
  Serve hot or at room temperature. Cover and refrigerate any remaining
  sauce. To serve again, stir in a small amount of hot water.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FILLET OF SOLE WITH TARTAR SAUCE
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, Seafood, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Sole Fillets; Cut To Serve
    1/2 ts Slat
      1 ds Pepper
      2 tb Butter Or Margarine; Melted
      1 tb Lemon Juice
      1 ts Onion; Finely Chopped
           *TARTAR SAUCE*
      1 c  Mayonnaise Or Salad Dressing
      2 tb Dill Pickle; Finely Chopped
      1 tb Fresh Parsley; Snipped
      2 ts Pimento; Chopped
      1 ts Onion; Grated
 
  Servings:  4
  
  Heat the oven to 400 degrees F.  Prepare the Tartar Sauce.  Arrange
  the sole fillets in an ungreased baking dish, 8 X 8 X 2-inches and
  sprinkle with the salt and pepper.  Mix the butter, lemon juice, and
  onion together and drizzle over the fish.  Bake, uncovered, for 25 to
  30 minutes or until the fish flakes easily with a fork.  Serve with
  Tartar Sauce.
  
  TARTAR SAUCE:
  
  Mix all of the ingredients together and refrigerate.
  
  MICROWAVE DIRECTIONS:
  
  Sprinkle the sole fillets with the salt and pepper.  Fold in half and
  arrange in circle with folded sides to the outside edge in an
  ungreased microwavable pie plate, 9 X 1 1/4 inches.  Mix the butter
  and lemon juice with the onion and drizzle over the fish.  Cover
  tightly and microwave on high for 4 to 7 minutes, rotating the pie
  plate 1/2 turn after 2 minutes, or until the fish flakes easily with
  a fork.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN IN TARRAGON CREAM SAUCE
 Categories: Poultry, Meats, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Skinless, boneless chicken
           -breast or chicken tenders
      2 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
      3 lg Green onions, sliced,
           -including some of the green
           -tops
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/4 ts Tarragon
    1/8 ts Thyme
    1/2 c  Half and half
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 ts Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
           -to taste
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Cut chicken into cubes. Heat oil in 10" heavy skillet. Add chicken and
  saute until no longer pink. Remove from pan and keep warm. Add
  mushrooms and green onions to pan drippings. Saute briefly then add
  white wine, tarragon and thyme. Cook 2 minutes or until mushrooms are
  slightly softened and wine has nearly evaporated from pan. Add lemon
  juice, half and half and heavy cream. Bring just to a boil; return
  chicken and accumulated juices to the pan. Heat thorough. Add salt
  and pepper to taste. Serve immediately over rice or noodles. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BARBECUE SAUCE WITH HONEY
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Olive Oil
  1 1/2 c  Onions, finely chopped
      2 tb Garlic, finely chopped
      1 cn Tomatoes, crushed, 28 oz
      1 cn Tomato Paste, 6 oz
    1/2 c  Red Wine Vinegar
    1/4 c  Worcestershire Sauce
      1 tb Chili Powder
      1 tb Coriander, ground
      3 tb Lemon Juice
    1/4 ts Red Pepper Flakes
      1 tb Tabasco Sauce
      2 tb Oregano fresh or 1 tb dried
      2 ts Cumin, ground
      2    Bay Leaves
      4    Thyme sprig fresh or 1 ts
           -dry
      1 ts Black Pepper, freshly ground
      4 tb Honey
      1    Salt
 
  Servings:  8
  
  Heat the oil in a saucepan and add the onions. Cook, stirring until
  wilted. Add the garlic, cook briefly and add the remaining
  ingredients. Bring to a simmer and cook, stirring often, about 30
  minutes. Let the sauce cool and use for basting. Refrigerates well.
  Makes 5 cups. From The Gazette, 91/08/14,typed by James Lor.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CURRY PASTE (THAILAND)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Thai, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           *INGREDIENTS*
      6    Dried hot red chilies, 1 1/2
           -- 2 inches long
      2 tb Minced shallots or scallions
           -(white part only)
      1 tb Minced garlic
      1 tb Paprika
      1 tb Powdered sereh (powdered
           -dried lemon grass)
      1 tb Trassi (shrimp paste)
      1 ts Ground laos (ginger)
      1 ts Caraway seed
      1 ts Coriander seed
      1 ts Finely grated fresh lemon
           -peel
      1 ts Salt
 
  Source:Pacific and Southeast Asian Cooking - Time/Life
  
  *DIRECTIONS* Under cold running water, wash the chilies and remove
  their stems. Brush out any seeds that cling to the skin and break the
  pods into small pieces.
  
  To make red curry paste: combine the chilies, shallots (or scallions),
  garlic, paprika, sereh, trassi, laso, caraway, coriander, lemon peel
  and salt in the jar of an electric blender and blend at high speed
  for 20 to 30 seconds. Turn off the machine, scrape down the sides of
  the jar and blend again until the mixture is a smooth paste. Tightly
  covered and refrigerated, the paste may be safely kept for a month or
  so.
  
  To make green curry paste: substitute 6 fresh hot green chilies
  (about 2 inches long) for the dried red chilies and omit the paprika
  from the recipe. Then follow the above directions precisely. Green
  curry paste may be covered and refrigerated for about a month.
  
  *VARIATIONS*
  
  For a more fiery paste, include some seeds - the hottest part of the
  chili.
  
  << Joyce Monschein >>
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP AND FETA ALA GRECQUE
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp, medium, cleaned,cook
      1 lb Feta cheese,
      1 c  Scallions, sliced
      1 c  Tomato sauce
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice, fresh
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      1 tb Basil, fresh, chopped
      1 tb Dill, fresh, chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 lb Fettuccine, or flat noodle**
 
  Servings:  6
  
  * feta cheese, drained and coarsely crumbled ** noodles, cooked and
  drained ** Combine shrimp, feta cheese, scallions in a large bowl.
  Add tomato sauce, olive oil, lemon juice, parsley, basil, dill, salt,
  and pepper; mix well. Cover and refrigerate 1 hour. Toss shrimp
  mixture with hot noodles and serve immediately or refrigerate 1 hour
  and serve cold.
  
  I always add about 2 teaspoons of garlic to this.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RED CHILE PESTO CLAMS
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     60    Clams
     12    Ancho Chilies; Dried
     12    New Mexico Red Chiles; Dried
    1/2 c  Pine Nuts
     10    Cloves Garlic; Lg, *
      2 tb Oregano; Fresh, OR
      2 ts Oregano; Mexican, Roasted
      1    Zest Of 2 Lemons
    1/2 c  Olive Oil; Extra Virgin
      1    Juice Of 2 Limes
      5 c  Fish Stock; Or Clam Juice
     12    Sprigs Coriander
 
  Servings:  4
  
  *    The large garlic cloves should be roasted and peeled.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++
  
  Scrub the clams and discard any open ones.  Clams that have a strong
  odor or are heavy (indicating that they contain sand) are likely to
  be dead and should also be discarded.  Preheat the oven to 350
  degrees F. Roast the dried chiles in a large skillet, over
  medium-high heat, for 4 to 5 minutes, turning frequently to avoid
  burning. Remove the stems and seeds and place the chiles in a large
  bowl. Pour boiling water over them, cover, and let sit until they are
  very soft, about 40 minutes. Roast the pine nuts in the oven for
  about 8 minutes or until golden, stirring occasionally. Place the
  chiles, roasted garlic, lemon zest, 1/4 cup of olive oil, and oregano
  in a food processor or blender and puree until smooth. Add the
  remaining 1/4 cup of olive oil and blend thoroughly.  Add the pine
  nuts and process until coarsely chopped.  Season to taste with lime
  juice. Place the clams in a large pan, over medium-high heat, with
  the fish stock or clam juice. When the clams open, remove them from
  the cooking liquid. Reduce the liquid by half, then whisk in the
  chile pesto. To serve, divide clams, evenly between four soup bowls,
  pour the pesto mixture over them, and garnish with coriander leaves.
  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FILLETS PACIFICA
 Categories: Fish, Main dish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb White Fish Fillets
    1/4 c  Low-Sodium Soy Sauce
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      1 tb Canola Oil
      1 ts Fresh Ginger Root; Grated
      1 ts Brown Sugar
      1    Green Onion; Sliced
      1 ts Sesame Seeds Toasted
 
  Servings:  4
  
  Arrange the fish in a shallow dish.  Combine the soy sauce, lemon
  juice, oil, ginger root, brown sugar, and green onion.  Pour over the
  fish. Cover and refrigerate at least one hour.  Drain the fish and
  reserve the marinade.  Broil the  fish about 3 inches from the heat
  for 3 to 4 minutes for each side.  Brush with the sauce at least one
  time. Sprinkle with the sesame seeds and serve.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MARINATED SHARK STEAKS
 Categories: Italian, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           INGREDIENTS:
  1 1/2 lb Shark steaks
      2 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Rice or wine vinegar
           -(balsamic is *delightful*
           -here!)
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Chopped parsley
      1    Clove garlick, pressed or
           -minced
    1/2 ts Freshly-ground black pepper
 
  minced green onions and parsley
  
  (TIP):  Fish should be cooked only until it flakes easily.   Check it
  often to prevent overcooking,  which will not only make it rubbery,
  it will render it tasteless.   A good way to check is to check it for
  opacity. When it has turned from translucent to white and opaque it's
  done. It will finish  cooking  on  its own with residual heat if
  removed from the heat source.
  
  Fish  is  a high protein but low-calorie main dish.   By  using  a
  light marinade  you  eliminate rich butter sauces and still  maintain
  the delicate flavor.
  
  Cut the shark steaks into service-sized pieces.   Place them in  a
  glass dish.   Combine the soy sauce,  vinegar,  lemon juice,  oil
  parsley, garlick and black pepper.  Pour the marinade over the fish
  and marinate for half an hour, turning at least once.
  
  Remove  the fish (reserving the marinade)  and broil 4 to 5 inches
  from the heat - about four minutes a side.   Brush with the marinade
  before turning.
  
  Serve with minced green onions and parsley.  Accompaniments:  Rice and
  vegetable pilaf,  leaf lettuce tossed with parsley-lemon dressing, and
  French or Italian sourdough bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CRAB GRATIN
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Linguine,dry
    1/4 lb Mushrooms,sliced
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Water
      3 tb Flour
      2 c  Clam juice
      2 tb Additional lemon juice
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
    1/4 ts Dried tarragon,crumbled
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
      2 tb Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Chopped tomatoes
     12 oz Crabmeat,picked over to
           -remove cartilage
    1/2 tb Plain bread crumbs
 
  Preheat oven to 375 degrees.Follow package directions to prepare
  linguine.Cook just until al dente,still slightly firm. Drain at
  once.Cook under cold running water and put aside to drain
  thoroughly.Place in a mixing bowl.
  
  Put mushrooms in a small pot.Sprinkle with 1 tablespoon of lemon
  juice.Add water.Place aluminum foil directly over mushrooms.Cover pot
  with a lid.Place on high heat.Cook for about 1 minute just until
  steam begins to escape from pot.With a skimmer,transfer mushrooms to
  a dish.Reserve juices.There will be about 1/4 cup.
  
  Put flour in a 3 to 4 cup saucepan and stir in a little clam juice to
  make a smooth paste.Stir in remaining clam juice,lemon juice,white
  wine and reserved mushroom juice.Season with coriander,tarragon,black
  pepper and soy sauce.Place over medium heat and bring liquid to a
  simmer,stirring constantly.Cook and stir until mixture thickens,about
  3 to 4 minutes.Stir in heavy cream,then parsley and tomatoes.There
  will be about 2 1/2 cups.
  
  Lightly oil a 6 cup gratin dish.Add mushrooms to the pasta. Pour half
  the sauce over the pasta mixture.Mix well.Scrape into gratin dish and
  pat linguine into a smooth layer.Gently, mix remaining sauce with
  crabmeat and spoon over the linguine. Sprinkle bread crumbs over
  top.Bake for 15 minutes or until thoroughly heated through.If the top
  has not browned,slip under the broiler for a brief minute.Serve
  directly from gratin dish. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SCALLOP AND SHRIMP ON SKEWERS
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Sea scallops
    1/2 lb Large raw shrimp,peeled and
           -deveined
      3 tb Olive oil
      3 tb Lemon juice
      2 lg Cloves garlic,minced
      3 tb Minced parsley
    1/4 ts Dried basil,crushed
    1/8 ts Black pepper
    1/2 lb Mushrooms
 
  Pat scallops and shrimp dry.Combine olive oil,lemon juice,
  garlic,parsley,basil and black pepper to make a marinade.Add
  shellfish and marinate 30 minutes to 1 hour,stirring occasionally
  Alternate scallops,shrimp and mushrooms on skewers without
  crowding.Brush with marinade.Broil or grill 4" from heat source for 4
  minutes.Turn skewers,brush with marinade and continue to cook about 3
  minutes more or until scallops and shrimp are opaque Do not
  overcook.Serve with rice pilaf,if desired.Makes 4 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MAINE TANGY LOBSTER
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Lobster meat
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/3 c  Butter
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Salt;pepper to taste
 
  Place all ingredients,except lobster,in top part of double boiler.
  Melt over hot water;stir to blend well.Cut lobster in small pieces;
  add to mixture and cook 6 minutes.Serve on toast with lemon wedges.
  Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STIR FRIED SCALLOPS
 Categories: Seafood, Wok, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Honey
      1 tb Minced fresh ginger,peel
           -first
      1    Clove garlic,peeled and
           -pressed flat
      1 lb Scallops
      2 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Combine lemon juice,soy sauce,honey,ginger and garlic in a medium
  bowl.Stir to dissolve honey.Add scallops and toss.Prepare remaining
  part of the meal. Heat a heavy iron skillet or wok over highest heat
  for 3 minutes. Add oil and heat another 30 seconds.Add scallops and
  stirring constantly,cook about 3 minutes (less time if bay
  scallops).Serve with peas or snow peas.Pass extra soy sauce and
  Oriental sesame oil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RED SNAPPER ACAPULCO PRINCESS
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 c  Fresh spinach,chopped
      2    Red snapper fillets (about
           -12 ounces)
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1    Egg white
      8 md Shrimp,finely chopped
      8    Bay scallops,finely chopped
      1 sl Bread,toasted and cubed
    1/4 c  Cream
 
  Salt,ground white pepper and cayenne pepper Thin slices lemon for
  garnish
  
  Put spinach into a baking dish and cover with plastic wrap.Microwave
  on high 1 minute to wilt.Transfer spinach to a medium bowl.Place fish
  in same baking dish;pour wine and lemon juice over fish.Set aside.
  Beat egg white lightly with spinach.Add shrimp,scallops,bread and
  cream.Add seasonings to mixture and sprinkle some on fish as desired.
  Mound shrimp mixture on top of fish and garnish with lemon slices.
  Cover with waxed paper and microwave on high 5 to 6 minutes or until
  fish is done.Makes 2 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MICROWAVE STUFFED SHRIMP
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      9    Fresh,raw,jumbo shrimp
           -(about 1/2 lb.),shelled
      2 tb Butter
      1    6 1/2 oz can crab
           -meat,drained and cartilage
           -removed
      2 tb Fine dry bread crumbs
      2 tb Snipped fresh parsley
      2 ts Fresh lemon juice
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
 
  Paprika,optional Lemon wedges,optional
  
  To butterfly and devein shrimp,make a cut down middle of back from
  tail to thick end,cutting almost all the way through.With point of
  knife,loosen and remove vein.Arrange shrimp,cut side up, on microwave
  rack,tails toward the center.Spread,cut side open. Place butter in
  medium mixing bowl.Microwave on high for 30 to 45 seconds or until
  butter melts.Stir in crab meat,bread crumbs,parsley, lemon
  juice,cayenne and salt.Divide stuffing evenly on top of shrimp. Cover
  with wax paper.Place microwave rack in oven.Reduce powder to medium
  (50%).Microwave for 5 to 7 minutes or until shrimp are opaque.
  Garnish with paprika and lemon wedges.Serves 3.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: AUSTRALIAN SHRIMP ON THE BARBIE
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill, Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  (1 stick) butter,melted
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Minced fresh herbs
           -(parsley,thyme and
           -cilantro)
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      3 lg Garlic cloves,crushed
      1 tb Minced shallot
           Salt and pepper,freshly
           -ground
      1    1/2 lb medium large
           -shrimp,unpeeled
 
  Spinach leaves Lemon slices
  
  Combine first 8 ingredients in large bowl.Mix in shrimp.Marinate at
  room temperature 1 hour or in the refrigerator 5 hours,stirring
  occasionally. Prepare barbecue with medium hot coals.Thread shrimp on
  narrow skewers.Grill until just opaque,about 2 minutes per side.Line
  platter with spinach.Arrange skewers on platter.Garnish with lemon
  and serve. Makes 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHRIMP AND VEGETABLES WITH LINGUINE
 Categories: Seafood, Vegetables, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Linguine
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1    Stalk celery,chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped sweet red pepper
  1 1/2 c  Broccoli florets
  1 1/2 c  Chicken broth,divided
      1 tb Cornstarch
     20 md Shrimp,peeled and deveined
      1    Clove garlic,minced
      2    Green onions,sliced
      2 tb Dry white wine
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
  Freshly ground black pepper
  
  Cook linguine in 3 quarts boiling water until done but firm to the
  bite.Set aside and keep warm.Meanwhile,in a 10" skillet,saute onion
  and celery 2 minutes in olive oil.Add sweet red pepper,broccoli and
  1/2 cup of the chicken broth.Cover and cook 2 minutes.Add cornstarch
  to remaining cup chicken broth and set aside.Stir in shrimp,garlic,
  green onions,reserved chicken broth and cornstarch,white wine,lemon
  juice and pepper into vegetables.Cover and cook 2 to 3 minutes or
  until shrimp has turned pink and the sauce has thickened.Serve
  immediately over cooked noodles.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TRADEWIND LOBSTER BARBECUE SAUCE
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Real mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Tomato ketchup
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Grated onion
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ds Of pepper
 
  Mix all ingredients together thoroughly.Brush generously over tails
  before starting to grill. Repeat once during cooking.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SKILLET PAELLA
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Shrimp,cleaned
      2 tb Butter
  1 1/2 c  Water
      1    - 10 oz pkg. green peas
      1 pk French's Spice Your Rice
           -Chicken and Herb Flavor
           -seasoning
  1 1/2 c  Rice
      4 oz Cooked ham,cut into thin
           -strips
    1/2 c  Sliced ripe olives
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Halved cherry tomatoes
 
  Saute shrimp in melted butter,2 to 4 minutes or until shrimp turn
  pink.Add water,peas and seasoning mix.Bring to a full boil. Stir in
  rice and remaining ingredients.Cover,remove from heat. Let stand 5
  minutes.Fluff with fork.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PANKO SHRIMP
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers, Japanese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Shrimp (26 to 30)
      2 c  Panko (Japanese breadcrumbs)
      1 c  Flour
      2    Eggs
           Oil for frying
      1    Lemon
 
  Soy sauce for dipping
  
  Peel and devein shrimp,but leave tails attached.Wash well in salted
  water until water runs clear.This will be 5 or 6 changes of water.Dry
  on paper towels. Beat eggs in a bowl.Pour flour and panko onto
  separate pieces of waxed paper. Holding a shrimp by the tail,roll it
  in the flour,egg and panko. Place on cookie sheet.Repeat with
  remaining shrimp.This may be done several hours in advance,but keep
  them in the refrigerator. Heat oil in a pan to 350 degrees.Deep-fry
  shrimp until they turn light golden brown.You may need to do this in
  several batches,because if you crowd out the pan,they will not brown
  properly.Drain on paper towels. Cut lemon in half lengthwise,cut each
  half in half.You will have 8 long wedges.Serve with soy sauce to dip
  and lemon on side.You can squeeze the lemon either on the shrimp or
  in the soy sauce or both.
  
  Note:The Japanese eat a lot of foods at room temperature and fried
  food coated with panko stays crisp for several hours,hence it is good
  picnic food.This dish is served as an appetizer course in a Japanese
  meal but would also make a good hors d'oeuvre at a Western-style
  party.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ESCARGOT IN MUSHROOM CAPS
 Categories: Meats, French, Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Minced onion
    1/2 lb Butter,melted
    1/4 ts Lemon juice
     24    To 26 - blanched * fresh
           -escargot,or drained,canned
           -snails
      2 tb Garlic powder
 
  Saute  minced  onion in 1/4 cup  butter.Add  lemon  juice.Place
  escargot in mushroom caps in individual dishes.Spoon onion and butter
  over escargot.Sprinkle  lightly with garlic powder.Let stand  for two
  hours. Pour   mixture  of  remaining  butter  and  garlic  powder over
  escargot.Bake  @  350  degrees for 10 to  15  minutes.Serve with
  garlic toast.
  
  *  To Blanch Escargot: Blanching is the first step  in  preparing
  escargot dishes.Fill a 3 quart pan half full of water (enough  to
  cover the snails).When water boils,drop in the rinsed snails.Boil
  vigorously for 3 minutes (no more or the snails will get
  tough).Remove snails and rinse in cold water.Remove nails from shells
  with a toothpick.Place snails in bowl containing a mixture of half
  water and half vinegar for two hours.Snails are now ready to simmer
  in sauces.They may be cut into two or three pieces,if
  desired.Blanched snails,may be frozen.Note: Do not save snail
  shells,which are fragile.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SEAFOOD THERMIDOR
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish, Casseroles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh or frozen fish fillets
    1/2 lb Crabmeat,clams,shrimp and or
           -scallops (any combinations)
      1 cn Cream of shrimp soup
      3 tb Flour
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  White wine
    1/4 c  Shredded Mozzarella cheese
      2 tb Snipped fresh parsley
    1/2 c  Soft bread crumbs
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Dijon mustard
    1/2 ts Fresh lemon juice
           Lemon slices and parsley for
           -garnish
           Thin slices of green onion
           -rings for garnish
      1    Quartered onion and 1 lemon
           -slice for poaching seafood
 
  Thaw fish,if frozen.Cut into 1/2" cubes.Place all seafood in a pan or
  skillet.Add lemon slice,quartered onion and water,just to cover.
  Bring to a boil,then reduce heat and simmer for 4 minutes.Meanwhile,
  in a small saucepan,blend soup and the flour.Gradually,stir in milk,
  lemon juice and wine.Cook while stirring constantly until thick.Stir
  in mustard,Mozzarella and parsley. Carefully,drain seafood well and
  gently fold in sauce.Spoon mixture into a lightly-greased medium-size
  casserole or into individual casserole dishes.Combine bread
  crumbs,Parmesan cheese,butter and paprika.Sprinkle over
  casseroles.Broil 1 to 2 minutes.Serve over your choice of rice or
  pastry shells.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: INDONESIAN SATE' SHRIMP
 Categories: Seafood, Indonesian, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 sm Onion,minced
      2    Garlic cloves,minced
      3 tb Peanut butter
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Turmeric
      1 ts Chili powder
      2 ts Soy sauce
  1 1/3 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      4    Dozen medium shrimp,shelled
           -and deveined
 
  Sauce:
  
  Wood or metal skewers Rice
  
  Saute onion and garlic in oil until onion is limp,about 10 minutes.
  Add the rest of ingredients and simmer for one minute,stirring
  constantly.The mixture will be quite thick.Let cool.Mix shrimp and
  cooled Sate' Sauce in a small bowl.Cover and let stand at room
  temperature for 30 minutes to one hour or refrigerate for 2 to 3
  hours If you marinade in refrigerator,remove one hour before
  cooking.Save sauce. Skewer shrimp the long way so that they will lie
  flat on grill or broiler pan.Preheat broiler 5 to 10 minutes.Put
  shrimp on grill or in broiler and cook 10 minutes per side until each
  side is browned, turning only once. Using 2 tbsp. of marinade,mix
  with 1 1/2 cups of chicken stock.Bring to a boil and thicken with 1
  tbsp. of cornstarch,mixed with 2 tbsp. of water.Stir in 1/4 cup sour
  cream and serve over rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPICY SHRIMP PATTIES
 Categories: Ethnic, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb White fish fillets (sole,
           -cod or whiting)
      6 oz Cooked peeled shrimp,
           -chopped
      4    Green onions, chopped
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      2 tb Chopped cilantro (fresh
           -coriander)
      1 tb Chopped fresh mint
      1    Inch piece fresh gingerroot,
           -grated
      2 c  Fresh white bread crumbs
           Salt and red (cayenne)
           -pepper to taste
      1    Egg yolk, beaten
      2 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 c  Garbanzo bean flour
      1 tb Ground coriander
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Mint sprigs and lemon slices, to garnish
  
  Remove any skin and bones from fish, rinse and pat dry with paper
  towels. Mince fish, then transfer to a bowl. Stir in shrimp, green
  onions, gingerroot, cilantro, mint, 1/2 cup of breadcrumbs, salt and
  
  cayenne. Add egg yolk and lemon juice; mix well. Divide mixture into
  16 equal portions and form into 1/2-inch thick rounds. Roll patties in
  remaining bread crumbs to coat completely.
  
  Put flour, coriander, salt and cayenne in a small bowl; add water and
  mix to a smooth batter. Heat oil in a skillet. Dip patties in batter;
  fry 2 to 3 minutes on each side until golden brown. Drain on paper
  towels and serve hot, garnished with mint and lemon slices.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [The Book of Curries and Indian Foods by
  Linda Fraser ISBN 0-89586-820-2]
  
  Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BARBECUE SHRIMP
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Medium whole shrimp
  1 1/2    Sticks butter
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2    Lemons
      6    Cloves garlic, pressed
      3 tb Worcestershire
    1/2 ts Cayenne
      1 tb Salt (yup!)
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 tb Italian seasoning
 
  French bread
  
  Melt butter in a large, shallow baking pan.  Add 1 1/2 squeezed
  lemons & everything except shrimp.  Let simmer 5 minutes.  Wash
  shrimp (leave shells on) & place in pan, & baste.  Bake at 350
  degrees until shrimp are pink on top, 5-8 minutes.  Turn shrimp, salt
  & pepper lightly, & bake 10 minutes. Squeeze 1/2 lemon & a few dashes
  Worcestershire on top & serve with French bread for dipping that
  great sauce. 4 servings. This is from the New Orleans Times-Picayune
  Cooking Contest, 1980. Gail B.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SMOKER STUFFED SALMON
 Categories: Meats, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Salmon; 4 to 5 lb. drawn, s
      1    Oil
      1 c  Tomato; peeled and chopped
    1/4 c  Green onion; chopped
    1/4 c  Dill; fresh, chopped
    1/2 c  Dry bread cubes
    1/4 c  Celery; chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Lemon pepper
      1    Cl Garlic; small, minced
 
  Servings:  4
  
  Prepare salmon and brush with oil.  Combine remaining ingredients and
  stuff salmon with this mixture.  Place salmon on a sheet of heavy
  duty foil that has been doubled *and* greased.  Place on water smoker
  grid and smoke. Yield:  4 servings. Charcoal: Use 7 lbs. charcoal, 4
  quarts hot water, 2 wood chunks and smoke 3-1/2 to 4-1/2 hours.
  Electric: Use 4 quarts hot water, 2 wood chunks and smoke 3 to 4
  hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORRO'S ONE POT OLYMPIC POULTRY
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Ingredients:
           Chicken or Turkey parts to
           -match servings desired.
      1 qt Chicken Broth or Chicken
           -Soup
      1 ts Cilantro
      1 ts Ground Correander Seed (only
           -if you don't use Cilantro!)
      1 tb Oregano
    1/4 sm Onion chopped
      1    Clove garlic minced
    1/4 c  Cooking wine (bitter orange
           -or other fruit is best)
      1 ts Ground White pepper
      1 tb Crushed Red pepper (subst.
           -Cayenne)
      1 ts Sweet Basil (optional, I
           -like it)
    1/4    Lemon with rind on
      1 c  Rice uncooked (I don't use
           -pre-cooked type, but either
           -works)
 
  Choose your large cast iron pot (my usual) or in my case now with no
  stove, a West Bend electric fry pan.
  
  Set to simmer and add chicken soup. (I use egg drop by the way, but
  that's another step) While broth is warming, wash chicken as you
  usually do. Add all seasonings except the peppers. Squeeze the lemon
  for it's juice and toss it in without the seeds. When you can see
  that the broth is just starting to boil every time the light goes
  out, you know it's just right, below boiling temp. You don't want
  this to boil unless you are in a hurry, want to do lots of pot
  watching or you like tough chicken. No need to add salt or sugar
  since there is usually more than enough already in the soup. The
  chicken should not be covered in liquid, this is not intended to be
  soup when you get done.
  
  When you have the temp. fine tuned to true simmer, place the poultry
  parts in the broth, meaty side up as possible. Sprinkle on the white
  and red pepper, cover the pot and ignore it for as long as you wish
  the longer the better, I usually shoot for at least 4 hours. Before
  serving at least 20 min. before you want to eat, flip the meat and
  add the rice. Check to make sure there is enough water, bring up to
  original level if necessary. This should turn out fairly thick, and
  not soup because the rice absorbs most or all of the liquid. Stir it
  in well and cover again. When the rice is done it's finished. Spoon
  out rice onto plates and place poultry on the side of it. I like to
  serve this with a large tossed salad, using Olive Oil, 1 T lemon
  juice, 2T Oregano, and 1 clove garlic, or garlic powder. (See Porro's
  Italian Salad for details)
  
  I use Cajun seasoning, but wanted this to have a more general appeal,
  if you like it hotter, go for it. Sort of a Cajun/Italian recipe.
  Some other notes and options. 2 t of parsley won't hurt. Also
  optional: (it's not cast in stone, add what you like) fresh sliced
  mushrooms. I confess, I never measure any of the above, it's all done
  by taste, do the same please! Anytime you use fresh spices it will
  taste better.
  
  Why I make and eat this. 1) For sporting events, one never knows for
  certain when it will be time to eat. Also if you have company that
  shows up late on a regular basis, this type of cooking and be on hold
  for extended periods of time, without harm. 2) No stove. 3) The slow
  cooking will make even a laying hen edible. 4) For a whomped up one
  pot, one plate dinner it actually has some taste to it.  5) Sometimes
  I want something that is easy and doesn't need tending, this is it.
  Probably best for family cooking rather than guests. 6) When I was
  cooking for three teens I never knew if any two would every be at
  home for dinner at the same time. It keeps well for hours after
  adding the rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED TURKEY EN BROCHETTE
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Turkey tenderloin
           -steaks(about 1 pound)
    1/3 c  Chili sauce
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Sugar
      2    Bay leaves
      8 md Cherry tomatoes
      8 md Mushrooms
      1 lg Seeded green pepper, cut
           -into eighths
      2 sm Peeled, quartered onions
      1 md Zucchini, cut into
           -1/2"slices
      2 tb Vegetable oil
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Cut turkey steaks into 2" cubes and place in bowl. Combine chili
  sauce, lemon juice, sugar and bay leaves. Pour over turkey cubes.
  Refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight. Stir to coat several times
  during marinating. Thread turkey on skewers, alternating with
  tomatoes, mushrooms, green pepper, onion and zucchini. Brush lightly
  with oil. Grill over hot coals 6" from heat source, turning
  occasionally, about 10 to 15 minutes. Brush with reserved marinade
  while turning. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TURKEY WITH ALMOND BUTTER
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Oven roasted breast of
           -turkey
    1/4 c  Flour
      2 tb Sliced almonds
      3 tb Butter, divided
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Water
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Cut turkey into eight 1/4" slices. Coat with flour; set aside. Lightly
  brown almonds in 1 Tbsp butter in large skillet; set aside. Melt
  another Tbsp of butter in skillet. Heat half of turkey 2 to 3 minutes
  on each side or until lightly browned. Place turkey on serving
  platter; cover to keep warm. Repeat with remaining butter and turkey.
  Combine lemon, water and almond in skillet; heat briefly. Pour over
  turkey. Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN ITALIAN
 Categories: Poultry, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    To 3 to 3 1/2 lb whole
           -frying chicken, skinned (or
           -use 3 lb
           Skinned chicken breasts)
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
    1/4 ts Oregano
      2 tb Dry white wine
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP (Low salt, low fat)
  
  pepper to taste
  
  If using whole chicken, cut chicken in half. Blend marinade of all the
  remaining ingredients. Soak chicken for 10 minutes. Bake in greased
  pan @ 375 degrees for 45 minutes to 1 hour or until tender. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BARBECUED CORNISH HEN
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Cornish game hens
           Butter, melted
           BARBECUE SAUCE:
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Oil
  1 1/4 c  Worcestershire
      2 tb Chopped onion
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Ketchup
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Brush each Cornish hen with butter and place on vertical roaster. Mash
  garlic and salt together in a bowl. Combine with remaining
  ingredients. Set Cornish upright on grill over coals and cover
  barbecue grill. Brush with sauce every 10 minutes for about 45
  minutes or until tender.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLUEBERRY STUFFED CORNISH HENS
 Categories: Poultry, Fruit
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Cornish Hens, thawed
           Salt and pepper
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Angostura Bitters
      4 c  Fresh blueberries
      4 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      8 sm Bay leaves
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Sprinkle game hens inside and out with salt and pepper. Mix oil, lemon
  juice and Angostura Bitters and brush game hens with mixture inside
  and out. Fill each bird with 1/2 cup blueberries and 1/2 tsp sugar.
  Sew or skewer opening and place on a shallow pan. Spread soft butter
  over breasts of birds and place bay leaf on butter. Roast in a
  preheated 350 degree oven for 1 hour or until leg is easily moved.
  Makes 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GRILLED ROSEMARY CHICKEN
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Frying chickens, 2 to 3 lb
           -each, cut up
    1/2 c  Fresh rosemary
           Juice of 2 lemons
      8    Garlic cloves, minced
    2/3 c  Olive oil
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Salt and pepper to taste Rosemary sprigs for garnish
  
  Put the chicken in a glass baking dish or deep plate. Set aside. In a
  food processor fitted with a steel knife, chop the rosemary. With the
  machine running, ass the lemon juice, garlic and olive oil through
  the feed tube and process for 3 or 4 seconds. Pour the marinade over
  the chicken, cover and refrigerate. Let marinate for 2 to 4 hours,
  turning occasionally. Grill over hot coals skin side up, basting
  frequently with the remaining marinade, for about 20 minutes. Turn
  once with long handled tongs during cooking. To serve, sprinkle with
  salt and pepper. Garnish with rosemary sprigs. Serves 8.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN GARLIC ROSEMARY
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1    To 2 1/2 to 3 lb fryer or
           -broiler, disjointed
      2 tb Flour
      3 tb Safflower or corn oil
      3 lg Cloves garlic, pressed
      1 tb EACH:olive oil, lemon juice
      1 tb Dried rosemary
 
  Source: MAINPOUL.ZIP
  
  Salt, pepper
  
  Wipe chicken with a damp cloth and sprinkle with flour on all sides.
  In a heavy-bottom skillet, heat oil and brown chicken well on all
  sides Transfer to a foil lined baking dish. Mix garlic, olive oil,
  lemon juice; spread on chicken, then sprinkle evenly with rosemary
  that you have crumbled between your fingers. Salt and pepper lightly
  and cover tightly with foil. Marinate in your refrigerator for four
  hours. Then bake in a preheated 350 degree oven for 1 hour. Uncover,
  last 20 minutes. Serves 5 to 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGES WITH MAPLE CARMEL
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Fruit
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 md Naval oranges
    1/4 c  Firmly packed light-brown
           -sugar
      2 tb Maple syrup
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Water
 
  Makes 2 servings Nutrient Value Per Serving: 218 calories, 1 g
  protein, 0 g fat, 56 g carbohydrate, 13 mg sodium, 0 mg cholestterol.
  Exchanges: 3 3/4 fruit
  
  1. Peel oranges, and slice, or section. Divide between two dessert
  dishes. 2. Bring to boiling sugar, maple syrup, lemon juice and water
  in small saucepan; cook 3 to 4 minutes until thick syrup forms. Spoon
  over oranges.
  
  Recipe from: Family Circle magazine 06/04/91  Home Alone Cooking for
  One or Two By Paul E. Piccuito
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON BEEF ORIENTAL
 Categories: Meats, Asian, Fruit
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1 lb Sirloin Butt Steak, cut into
           -bite-sized pieces
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
    2/3 c  Beef broth
      1 lb Fresh snow peas (Chinese pea
           -pods)
    1/2 c  Sliced freash mushrooms
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Ground ginger
 
  Hot, cooked rice
  
  Heat oil with salt in wok or heavy skillet over medium-high heat.
  Stir-fry steak pieces until browned.  Sprinkle with lemon peel. Add
  broth, peas and mushrooms.  Stir-fry 1 minute longer. Combine lemon
  juice with cornstarch. Add to beef and cook until thickened and
  bubbly. Stir in ginger. Serve with hot, cooked rice. 4-5 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STIR FRIED CATFISH
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Main dish, Wok
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Catfish fillets
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Thinly sliced red pepper
      1 c  Sliced celery
      1 c  Snow peas
      1 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
      2 tb Cornstarch
    3/4 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Hot cooked rice
 
  Cut fillets into 2 x 3/4" strips.Combine lemon juice and soy sauce.
  Add fish;let stand 20 minutes.Add 2 tbsp. oil to wok or large
  skillet. Heat over medium high heat for 2 minutes.Add red pepper;stir
  fry 2 minutes.Add celery,snow peas and mushrooms;stir fry 2 minutes
  more. Remove vegetables;set aside.Add remaining tbsp. oil to wok;heat
  over medium high heat for 2 minutes.Drain fish,reserving marinade.Add
  fish to wok;stir fry 2 minutes or until fish flakes easily.Return
  vegetables to wok.Combine cornstarch,water,salt,pepper and reserved
  marinade;stir until smooth.Add to wok and cook 2 minutes or until
  slightly thickened. Serve over hot cooked rice.Makes 4 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FISH WITH RICE WINE
 Categories: Seafood, Fish, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Lb.s sole fillets
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
           Vegetable oil
           Oriental sesame oil
      1 c  Oriental rice wine
           Juice of 1 large lemon
    1/4 c  Peeled grated fresh ginger
           White pepper
    1/2 c  Toasted pine nuts
    1/2 bn Scallions,trimmed and
           -chopped fine on the
           -diagonal
 
  Dredge fish in whole wheat flour.Use about 2/3 vegetable oil to 1/3
  sesame oil.Heat enough oil mixture to coat the bottom of a large
  skillet.(To cook all the fish at the same time will require more than
  1 skillet.)Add fish (do not crowd) and cook on both sides until done
  (about 5 minutes in all).Remove the fish to serving platter or
  plates.Keep warm. To the skillet,add rice wine and lemon
  juice,ginger,pepper and pine nuts.Reduce until no longer runny.Pour
  over the fish.Garnish fish with minced or slivered scallions.Serves 4
  to 6.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORIENTAL FISH FILLETS
 Categories: Fish, Seafood, Main dish, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fillets,cut into 2" x 1/2"
           -strips
      3 tb Soy sauce
      2 tb Ketchup
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 tb Oil
      1 ts Grated gingerroot
    1/4 ts Grated lemon rind
 
  Thread fillets on wooden skewers,place in a single layer in a shallow
  baking pan.Combine soy sauce,ketchup,red wine vinegar, brown
  sugar,oil,gingerroot and lemon rind.Pour mixture over fish. Marinate
  for 30 minutes,turning occasionally.Place skewers on broiler
  pan.Broil 3" from the heat for three minutes on each side.Serve over
  rice.Remaining marinade can be combined with 1/4 cup water,heated to
  boiling and used as a sauce.Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CANTONESE FISH FILLING (DIM SUM--SEE WON TON SKINS)
 Categories: Appetizers, Chinese
      Yield: 24 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Sesame seed oil
      1    Black or red pepper
    1/2 lb Flounder filet, cubed
  1 1/2 ts Chicken bouillon
      2    Garlic, minced
  1 1/2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Cabbage, chopped fine
      1 ts Cornstarch
      8    Scallions, chopped
      2 qt Stock or water
      4    Mushrooms, chopped
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  Servings: 24
  
  1. Heat 1/2 ts sesame oil in wok over low heat. 2. Add flounder cubes
  and garlic and simmer for 5 minutes. Remove. 3. To wok add rest of
  oil and cabbage and scallions. Stir-fry three minutes. 4. Push
  veggies to side of wok.  In center well add mushrooms and lemon
  juice. Stir-fry one minute. 5. Return flounder. Add pepper and
  bouillon. Blend. Simmer two minutes. 6. Mix cornstarch and water til
  blended well. 7. Add to flounder mixture in wok. Blend. Simmer til
  thickened. 8. Remove fish filling from wok to bowl. 9. Assemble won
  tons and boil.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: NORTHERN STEAK & SHRIMP FILLING (DIM SUM--SEE WON TON SKI
 Categories: Appetizers, Chinese
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 lb Steak, shredded
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      1 ts Mustard powder
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 lb Shrimp, chopped
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1    Zucchini, chopped
      1 tb Sherry
      4    Scallions, chopped
      4 oz Water chestnts, chopped
      1 tb Cilantro
      1    Leek, chopped
 
  Servings: 24
  
  1. In bowl combine first 4 ingredients and marinade in refrigerator
  for one hour, stirring occasionally. Drain. Reserve marinade. 2. In
  another bowl combine shrimp and lemon juice. Cover and place in
  refrigerator for one hour. 3. Heat oil in wok over low heat. Add meat
  mixture and leek. 4. Raise heat to high and stir-fry for half minute.
  5. Add zucchini and reserved meat marinade. Stir-fry one minute.
  Remove. 6. In wok stir-fry shrimp, scaillons, sherry, and water
  chestnuts for half minute or until shrimp turn pink. Remove. 7.
  Combine shrimp and meat mixtures and add cilantro. 9. Assemble won
  tons and fry or boil. Variation: use pork instead of steak.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PINEAPPLE-PAPAYA SALSA
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Seafood
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 md Tomatoes
      1 c  Diced peeled pineapple
      1 c  Diced peeled papaya
    1/3 c  Chopped green onion
      3 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
      1 sm Jalapeno chili, minced
           L 1/2 tablespoons lemon
           -juice
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  You could serve this with grilled fish.
  
  MAKES ABOUT 3 CUPS
  
  Blanch tomatoes in saucepan of boiling water 2 O seconds. Transfer to
  bowl of cold water using slotted spoon. Drain. Peel off skin using
  small sharp knife. Seed and dice tomatoes. Transfer to large bowl.
  Add all remaining ingredients and toss gently. Let salsa stand 3
  hours before serving.
  
  (Too Busy To Cook, 1991) Happy Cooking From Ed & Company
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOUTH AMERICAN PORK AND CORN PIE
 Categories: Meats, Vegetables, Casseroles
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 md Yellow onion, chopped
      1 c  Cubed cooked pork
    1/3 c  Plus 1 Tbl all-purpose flour
      1 tb Chili powder
      1 c  Chicken broth
      1 pk Frozen whole-kernel corn,
           -thawed (10 ounces)
    1/4 c  Raisins
    1/4 c  Chopped black olives
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Milk
    2/3 c  Cornmeal
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
 
  Heat 3 tablespoons of the oil in a 9-inch ovenproof skillet or a 1
  quart flameproof casserole, over medium heat.  Add the onion and
  cook, uncovered, for 5 minutes.  Add the pork and cook until lightly
  browned, about 2 minutes.  Blend in 1 tablespoon of the flour, the
  chili powder, and the chicken broth.  Add the corn, raisins, olives,
  and 1/4 teaspoon of the salt.  Stir until the mixture thickens, about
  4 minutes. Preheat the oven to 450F.  Stir the lemon juice into the
  milk in a small bowl and let stand for a few minutes.  Combine the
  cornmeal with the remaining flour and salt in a mixing bowl.  In the
  order listed, gradually stir in the milk mixture, egg, baking powder,
  baking soda, and remaining oil. Reheat the pork mixture.  Stir the
  topping mixture and pour over the pork. Bake, uncovered, until the
  topping is firm, about 20 minutes.
  
  NOTE:   If you do not have an ovenproof skillet or flameproof
  casserole, use a regular skillet to make the pork mixture and
  transfer it to a casserole just before baking.
  
  Makes 4 servings of 575 calories each.
  
  [ Reader's Digest Quick, Thrifty Cooking; 1985 ]
  
  Posted by Fred Peters.
  
  Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.1
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRUIT-GLAZED ROASTED PORK-CHOPS
 Categories: Meats, Fruit, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    Pork chops, 2" thick, lean,
           -boneless ("Butterfly"
           -chops).
      2 tb Garlic-flavored cooking oil
           ==== GLAZE ====
    1/4 c  Orange marmalade (tart)
      1 tb Lemon peel, finely shredded
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Ginger, ground
    1/8 ts Anise seed
    1/4 ts Allspice, ground
 
  Servings: 2
  
  Brown both sides of chops quickly in hot cooking oil.  Place in
  shallow roasting pan and cook at  350 F for 40 minutes.
  Garlic-flavored cooking oil is made by immersing a peeled, halved
  large garlic-clove in 1 cup of vegetable cooking oil the day before
  use.
  
  Stir to mix all GLAZE ingredients well and let stand to blend while
  chops are roasting.  After 40 minutes remove chops from oven, brush
  on glaze, turn chops and brush glaze on reverse side.
  
  Return to oven and continue cooking for an additional 35 to 45 minutes
  until meat is well done, basting at 15 minute intervals. Remove to
  serving platter and serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON GINGER SAUCE
 Categories: Meats, Wok, Asian, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Honey
      1 tb Dry sherry
      1 tb Slivered ginger root
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1 ts Cornstarch
 
  Source: MAINBEEF.ZIP
  
  Combine all ingredients; mix well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORIENTAL STYLE BEEF FILETS WITH AUGUST MOON SAUCE
 Categories: Meats, Fish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 oz To 4 oz beef filets
      1 ts Seasoned salt
      4 ts Soy sauce
      4 ts Vegetable oil
      1 c  Chopped peanuts
      8    Water chestnuts, coarsely
           -grated
      1 md Clove garlic, minced
    1/4 ts Lemon and pepper seasoning
    1/2 c  Snipped parsley
           AUGUST MOON SAUCE:
      1 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Ground ginger
  2 1/2 tb Sugar
    3/4 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Small orange rind, slivered
 
  Source: MAINBEEF.ZIP
  
  GARNISH: Remaining chopped peanuts Savoy or leaf lettuce Green onion
  flowers
  
  Prick filets with fork. Mix salt, soy sauce and vegetable oil. Brush
  over filets; let set 30 minutes. Reserving 2 Tbsp for garnish, blend
  together peanuts with chestnuts, garlic and lemon and pepper
  seasoning. Spread mixture on top and sides of filets. Pat parsley on
  tops and sides. Place filets in greased 9 x 12 x 2" baking pan. Bake
  @ 400 degrees 18 to 20 minutes or until desired doneness.
  
  Sauce:  In small saucepan, combine cornstarch, ginger, sugar, orange
  juice and orange rind slivers. Cook over low heat, stirring
  constantly, for 5 minutes or until thickened. Remove filets to
  platter. Spoon 2 Tbsp sauce over each filet. Serve remaining sauce in
  small pitcher. Sprinkle remaining peanuts over tops. Surround with
  lettuce and green onion flowers. Serves 4.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Scampi & Linguini
 Categories: Poultry, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Linguini
      2    Whole chicken breasts;
           - boneless, cut 1" pieces
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Oil
      2    Cloves garlic; minced
      2 bn Broccoli; chopped
      1 lg Red pepper; cut into 1"
           -chunks
      1 ts Salt
      1    Lemon; juice of
           Parmesan cheese
 
  Put on water for linguini. Heat butter and oil in large skillet, add
  garlic and saute 2 minutes. Add chicken and cook, stirring
  constantly, until golden. Push to one side, add broccoli and red
  pepper. Cook 2 minutes. Season with salt and pepper, sprinkle with
  lemon juice and cook 2 minutes. When water comes to boil, cook
  linguini, then drain pasta. Add chicken and vegetable sauce to pasta
  and toss to coat evenly. Serve with grated parmesan cheese
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Chicken German Style
 Categories: Aust/german, Pasta, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter; or margarine
    1/2 c  Flour
      2 c  Chicken broth
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      2 ts Lemon juice; fresh
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      8 oz Egg noodles; cooked &
           - drained
      3 c  Chicken; cooked, diced
    2/3 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
      2 ts Paprika
 
  Preheat oven to 350~F. degrees. Melt butter in large saucepan over
  medium low heat. Whisk in flour and stir 3 minutes. Gradually whisk
  in broth and milk. Reduce heat, simmering until thick, about 10
  minutes. Blend in lemon juice and seasonings. Combine cooked noodles
  and half the sauce, tossing gently to blend. Place in the bottom of a
  buttered 2-quart casserole. Top with chicken and remaining sauce.
  Combine Parmesan cheese and paprika, sprinkle over casserole. Bake
  until bubbling and golden brown, about 30 minutes. Serve hot.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon-Tarragon Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      8    Chicken breast halves;
           - boneless, skinless
      2 c  Fresh mushrooms; halved
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      3 tb Dry sherry
    1/2 tb Dried tarragon; crushed
    1/2 tb Lemon pepper seasoning
      1 cn Chicken broth
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
    1/4 c  Sour cream
           Egg noodles; cooked, hot
           Fresh lemon slices
 
  In a 12" skillet melt butter over medium-high heat. Add chicken,
  mushrooms, garlic, sherry, tarragon, and lemon-pepper seasoning.
  Cook, uncovered, for 10-12 minutes or until chicken is no longer
  pink, turning once. Remove chicken and mushrooms with a slotted
  spoon. In a screw-top jar combine chicken broth and flour; shake
  until blended. Add mixture to the skillet. Cook and stir over
  medium-high heat until thickened and bubbly. Remove about 1/2 cup
  mixture from skillet and stir into sour cream. Return to skillet
  along with chicken and mushrooms. Heat through (do not boil). Serve
  over hot cooked noodles. Garnish with lemon slices, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Energizing Linguine
 Categories: Pasta, Poultry, Cheese/eggs, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Linguine
      1 c  Fresh mushrooms; sliced
    1/2 c  Celery; sliced
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Chicken broth
    1/3 c  Dry white wine
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Dried thyme, crushed
      2 ds Bottled hot pepper sauce
    1/2 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
  1 1/2 c  Cooked chicken;cut in strips
      4 oz Fresh spinach; chopped
           Grated Parmesan cheese (opt)
 
  Prepare linguine according to package directions except omit salt.
  Drain; keep warm. Cook mushrooms & celery in hot margarine till
  tender. Stir in cornstarch. Stir in next 5 ingredients. Cook & still
  till bubbly. Stir in cheese till melted. Stir in chicken and spinach.
  Cover & cook 1 minute or until heated through. Serve over linguine.
  Sprinkle with Parmesan.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN PIECES WITH LIME
 Categories: Poultry, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           Chicken, cut up
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Thyme
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Pepper
      2    Limes,cut into wedges
 
  Place chicken pieces in an oiled baking dish, and mix with olive
  oil,thyme, juice and pepper. Bake at 375 F for 45 minutes to and
  hour, or until chicken is golden and tender. Garnish with wedges of
  lime so guests can soak his own chicken.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PAPRIKA SAUCE FOR POJARSKI
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      3 tb Chopped onion
      2 ts Paprika
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 ds Salt to taste
      1 ds Ground pepper -taste
      1 ts Cognac
    1/4 c  Sour cream
 
  Melt 1 Tbsp. of butter in a small saucepan and cook the onion until
  wilted. Sprinkle with paprika, flour, and thyme, stirring. Stir in
  the chicken stock, using a wire whisk, and simmer about 3 minutes.
  Add the cream and bring to a boil. Add the lemon juice, salt, pepper
  and Cognac. Strain the sauce through a sieve. Return to the heat and
  stir in the remaining butter and the sour cream. Bring just to a
  boil, but do not boil. Yield: 1 1/2 cups. FROM: "A Feast Made for
  Laughter" by Craig Claiborne. From *prodigy's Food and Wine Bulletin
  Board.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RASPBERRY CHICKEN
 Categories: Poultry, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Christin Stuart-MBKP88B
      6    Chicken breast
     18 oz Raspberry puree
      6 oz Brandy
      6    Squeeze fresh lemon
      6 ds Nutmeg
      6 oz White vinegar
      3 ts Shallots
      6 oz Sour cream (opt)
 
    Brown chicken on both sides until 3/4 of the way done. Remove
  chicken from the pan and deglaze with brandy. Add the remaining
  ingredients and reduce by 1/2. add the chicken and continue to cook
  quickly until done
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Scarpariella *
 Categories: Poultry, Alcohol, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
  3 1/2 lb Broiler-fryer chicken; cut
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Fresh ground black pepper
    3/4 c  Olive oil -OR- cooking oil
      1 lg Garlic clove; minced
      1 tb Fresh parsley; minced
      2 ts Dried rosemary
      1 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/2 c  Grated parmesan cheese
           Spaghetti; cooked, hot
           - OR Noodles

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Lemon wedges
           Mint sprigs
 
  Wash and dry chicken pieces. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Heat oil
  in large skillet. Brown chicken over high heat. Add garlic. Lower
  heat and saute for 10 minutes. Drain off fat. Add parsley, rosemary
  and wine. Simmer about 15 minutes or until wine evaporates and
  chicken is done. Remove chicken to a platter. Add cream to skillet.
  Boil until reduced by half and thickened, scraping pan drippings.
  Return chicken to skillet. Cook 3-4 minutes more or until chicken is
  reheated. Sprinkle with parmesan cheese. Serve over hot spaghetti or
  noodles. Garnish with lemon wedge and mint leaves.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts Neptune *
 Categories: Poultry, Seafood, Alcohol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      4 lg Chicken breast halves;
           - boneless, skinless
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      6 oz King Crab -OR- snow crab;
           - frozen, thawed
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Cornstarch
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      2    Green onions; minced
    1/2 c  Green pepper; chopped
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Dry white wine -OR- chicken
           - broth
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
           Parsley; chopped
 
  Place chicken between sheets of plastic wrap. Pound with flat side of
  mallet until they are 1/4" thick and 6-8" across. Sprinkle with salt
  and pepper. Place some crabmeat on one end of each breast. Sprinkle
  with lemon juice. Roll up to encase filling. Fold edges over, if
  desired. Roll in cornstarch, coating heavily. Heat butter in
  saucepan. Over medium heat, saute chicken for 15 minutes or until
  cooked through, turning to brown evenly. Remove from pan and keep
  warm. Add green onions and green peppers to pan. Saute 1 minutes,
  stirring constantly. Stir in flour. Add wine. Heat to boiling,
  stirring up brownings. Add cream. Boil, stirring, until sauce is
  thickened and smooth. Add chicken. Simmer 5 minutes longer. Serve,
  garnished with chopped parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-Dried Tomato Tapenade
 Categories: Tomatoes, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Marie Arico CWJS00A
      1 pk Sun-dried Tomatoes-3oz
           Boiling Water
      1 c  Olive Oil
      1 tb Drained Capers-Rounded T
      2 ts Minced Garlic
      1 ts Finely Grated Lemon Zest
      1 ts Fresh Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Herbes de Provence
 
  Place the tomatoes in a bowl and cover with boiling water. Set aside
  until softened, about 2 minutes. Drain and pat dry. When cool, place
  in a jar, cover with the olive oil and set aside at room temperature
  for 1 week. Pick the tomatoes out of the jar, leaving plenty of oil
  on them. Reserve the remaining oil. In a processor, combine the
  tomatoes with the capers, garlic, lemon zest, lemon juice and herbs.
  Pulse until a very coarse, rough puree forms, adding some of the
  reserved oil, if necessary. Season to taste with salt.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swordfish w/Sun-Dried Tomatoes
 Categories: Tomatoes, Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1    Lemon; thinly slice
      2    Swordfish steaks; halve, 12
           -oz each
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      4    Oil-pk tomatoes; drain, chop
      2 tb Oil; reserved
      1 ts Dried rosemary; crushed
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground pepper
      1 cl Garlic
 
  Place lemon in 10" micro-safe baking dish; arrange swordfish on top.
  Combine 2 T olive oil and the 2 T oil from tomatoes; pour over fish.
  Sprinkle with rosemary, salt and pepper. Let stand covered at room
  temperature 1 hour. Process tomatoes, garlic and remaining olive oil
  in blender to form paste. Cover fish with microwave-safe plastic
  wrap, turn back 1 corner, and micro HIGH 4 minutes. Spread tomato
  paste over fish. Cover with wrap, turn backk 1 corner and micro 1
  minute. Let stand covered 1 minute. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Traveler Sandwiches w/Sun-dried Tomatoes
 Categories: Sandwich, Tomatoes
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Oil-pk tomatoes; drain (oil
           -reserved), slice
    1/2 c  Black olives, pit and chop
    1/2 c  Pimientos; drain, 4oz jar
      2 tb Capers; partially mashed
    3/4 bn Watercress; chop (retain 1/4
           -of the bunch for dressing)
      2 oz Tin anchovies; mince

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Oil from tomatoes
      1    Lemon; juice only
        x  Watercress from above; mince
      3 tb Parsley; minced
      1    Baguette
 
  Divide 1 baguette into four sections and slice in halves,
  horizontally. Hollow out the centers slightly and mix bread crumbs
  into filling. Spoon dressing evenly over bread halves. Heap filling
  over halves. Press halves together and wrap each portion tightly in
  aluminum foil. Keeps for up to 6 hours without refrigeration. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemony Baked Chicken
 Categories: Tomatoes, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      8    Chicken thighs or breasts
           -halves
      1 c  Dried tomato bits
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Chicken stock
      1 tb Grated lemon peel
      1 tb Rosemary
        x  Salt and pepper
 
  Place dried tomato bits in bottom of a baking dish or pan. Place
  chicken one layer deep over tomato bits. Pour lemon juice and stock
  over chicken. Sprinkle lemon peel, rosemary, salt and pepper over
  all. Cover and bake at 350~ until tender, about 40 to 45 minutes.
  Before serving, spoon juices over top of chicken. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish Fantastic and Fast
 Categories: Tomatoes, Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      4    Fish fillets or steaks;about
           -6oz ea, 3/4" thick*
    1/4 c  Dried tomato bits
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Chopped fresh thyme or
      2 ts Dried thyme
      4 ts Garlic; minced
        x  Salt and pepper
 
  Preheat oven to 400~. Cut 4 12" circles from kitchen parchment; fold
  each circle in half.** Unfold circles and place fish pieces next to
  folds. Top fish with tomato bits, lemon juice, thyme, garlic, salt
  and pepper, dividing equally. Refold paper over fish so that cut
  edges meet. Fold and roll cut edges up all the way around to seal
  packes securely. Place on baking sheet; bake 10 to 12 minutes until
  packets are browned and puffed. Transfer to plates; cut open to
  serve. *Any thick-fleshed fish such as halibut, sea bass and orange
  roughy. **Aluminum foil may be used in place of kitchen parchment.
  Cut 4 12" squares of foil; proceed as with parchment circles, but
  bake for 12 minutes. Source: The Sonoma Dried Tomato Cookbook (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Stuffed Shrimp
 Categories: Tomatoes, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 tb Olive oil
      3    Green onions; minced
      2 cl Garllic; minced
      1 ts Italian parsley; chopped
      1 ts Fresh thyme; chopped or
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
      1 tb Dried tomato bits; heaping
    3/4 c  Fine fresh bread crumbs
      1 tb Parmesan cheese; grated
        x  Salt and pepper
      1 lb Large or jumbo shrimp;
           -butterflied
      4    Lemon wedges; garnish
        x  Tartar sauce; optional
 
  Heat oil in a small skillet and saute onions, garlic, parsley and
  thyme until onions become soft. Remove from heat and mix together
  with the tomato bits, bread crumbs, Parmesan, salt and pepper.
  Preheat oven to 450~. Lay shrimp in lightly oiled baking dish, cut
  sides down, with tail shells pointing up. Spread a layer of stuffing
  over the flattened portion of each shrimp, mounding it slightly in
  the center. Bake until the shrimp are pink and the stuffing is
  well-browned, about 10 to 12 minutes. Garnish with lemon wedges and
  offer tartar sauce, if desired. Source: The Sonoma Dried Tomato
  Cookbook (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne with Artichokes and Marinated Tomatoes
 Categories: Ethnic, Tomatoes, Vegetables, Pasta, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------FROM  JPMD44A----------------------------
      1 cn Artichoke hearts (13-15 oz.)
      5    Garlic cloves; minced
      2 oz Somona marin. dried tomatoes
      2 tb Olive oil from mar. tomatoes
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Red pepper flakes
      2 tb Parsley; fresh chopped
    3/4 c  Bread crumbs; fresh
      1 tb Garlic; chopped
     12 oz Penne pasta; cooked, drained
      1 tb Romano cheese, grated
    1/4 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
    1/4 ts Salt
 
  Drain the artichokes and reserve the liquid. Add enough water to make
  1 cup liquid. Cut the artichokes in quarters. Cook and stir the 5
  cloves minced garlic into 1 1/2 tablespoons oil in a large skillet
  over medium-high heat until golden. Reduce the heat to low. Add
  artichokes and tomatoes; simmer 1 minute. Stir in artichoke liquid,
  lemon juice, pepper flakes, parsley, salt, and pepper. Simmer 5
  minutes. Meanwhile in a separate saute pan, cook and stir bread
  crumbs and 1 tablespoon chopped garlic in remaining 1/2 tablespoon
  oil. Pour artichoke sauce over penne in large bowl; toss gently to
  coat. Sprinkle with bread crumb mixture and cheese. Source: COOKING
  WITH MARINATED DRIED TOMATOES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-dried Tomato Aioli
 Categories: Tomatoes, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    1/4 c  Oil-pk Tomatoes; drained
      1 lg Egg
      1 tb Garlic; minced
  1 1/2 ts Dijon mustard
  1 1/2 ts Fresh lemon juice
    3/4 c  Ex-virgin olive oil
        x  Salt and fresh ground white
           -pepper
 
  Finely chop sun-dried tomatoes in processor. Add egg, garlic, mustard
  and lemon juice and blend well. With machine running, gradually add
  oil through feed tube in slow steady stream. Blend until smooth and
  thick. Season with salt and pepper (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.
  Refrigerate) Source: Courtyard Cafe and Bar, NYC (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cottage Cheese Sun-Dried Tomato Dip
 Categories: Tomatoes, Dips/spread, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      2 c  Cream-style cottge cheese
      1    Green onion; cut 4 pieces
    1/4 c  Green pepper; finely chopped
      2 tb Oil-pk tomatoes; chop fine
      2 tb Fresh basil; or
      2 ts Dried basil
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Cracked pepper
 
  Combine all ingredients in blender; process until smooth, stopping
  once to scrape sides. Serve with green, red and yellow pepper squares
  or other fresh veggies. Yield 2 cups (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wagon Wheels w/Sun-Dried Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Tomatoes, Pasta
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 md Onion; chopped
      1 ts Olive oil
      1 lg Clove garlic
      2 c  Very hot tap water
      1 c  Sun-dried tomatoes; not
           -marinated
      8 oz Wagon wheel pasta; cook
      1 tb Parsley; chopped
      1 tb Fresh oregano; or
      1 ts Dried oregano
      2 ts Lemon juice
      4 tb Parmigiano reggiano or
           -Parmesan cheese
 
  Saute onion in hot oil in nonstick skillet until soft. Meanwhile,
  with food processor on drop garlic through feed tube and mince.
  Combine 1/2 cup of the tap water, as hot as possible, with sun-dried
  tomatoes, and add to processor. Process to puree tomatoes. Add
  remaining 1-1/2 cups of water to combine. Add tomato mixture to
  skillet and bring to boil. Reduce heat and continue to simmer to
  thicken slightly. Add parsley and oregano to sauce with lemon juice.
  Simmer over low heat. Serve drained pasta with tomato sauce,
  sprinkled with cheese. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomato Tapenade
 Categories: Tomatoes, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-------------------------
      3 oz Pkg dried tomatoes
      2 c  -water
      2 tb WESSON Oil
      2    Cloves garlic; minced
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 ts Dried whole basil
    1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/4 c  Ripe olives; sliced
      1 tb Drained capers

MMMMM------------------TOMATO TAPENADE CROSTINI:----------------------
           French bread baguette slices
           -toasted
           SARGENTO Fancy Supreme
           Shredded Mozzarella Cheese
 
  Combine tomatoes and water in a small saucepan; bring to a boil.
  Cover; reduce heat, and simmer 10 minutes or until tender. Drain
  well; pat dry with paper towels. Combine tomatoes, oil, and remaining
  ingredients in a food processor or electric blender. Top with cover
  and proscess until coarsely pureed. Yield: about 1-1/3 cups.
  
  TOMATO TAPENADO CROSTINI: Spread 1 tablespoon tapenade on toasted
  French bread baguette slices. Top with 1 tablespoon SARGENTO Fancy
  Supreme Shredded Mozzarella Cheese. Bake at 400~ for 3 to 5 minutes
  or until cheese is melted.
  
  Source:  Cafe Southern Living 5-Star Dining
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Antipasto Rice
 Categories: Tomatoes, Rice, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
  1 1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Tomato juice
      1 c  Rice; uncooked
      1 ts Dried basil leavees
      1 ts Dried oregano leaves
    1/2 ts Salt; optional
     14 oz Can artichoke hearts; drain,
           -quarter
    1/2 c  Oil-pk tomatoes; drain, chop
  2 1/4 oz Can sliced rips olives;drain
      2 tb Parsley; chopped
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Ground black pepper
      2 tb Parmesan cheese; grated
 
  Combine water, tomato juice, rice, basil, oregano and salt in a 2 to 3
  quart saucepan. Bring to a boil; stir once or twice. Reduce heat.
  Cover and simmer until rice is tender and liquid is absorbed - about
  15 minutes. Stir in artichokes, tomatoes, olives, parsley, lemon
  juice and black pepper. Cook 5 minutes longer or until thoroughly
  heated. Sprinkle with cheese. Source: The Sonoma Dried Tomato
  Cookbook (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tagliarini with Marinated Dried Tomatoes
 Categories: Tomatoes, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    1/2 c  Oil-pk sun-dried tomatoes;
           -cut into 1/8" strips
           -reserve the oil
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese; grated
    1/2 c  Parsley; chop fine
      2 cl Garlic; minced
      1 tb Lemon juice
      8 oz Tagliarini; cook al dente
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  In a serving bowl, whisk to blend the eggs, tomato strips, reserved
  oil, cheese, parsley, garlic and lemon juice. Add the drained pasta
  to the egg mixture (lift with 2 forks to mix). Add salt and pepper to
  taste. Source: The Sonoma Dried Tomato Cookbook (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fettuccine with Sauce Mediterranee
 Categories: Tomatoes, Pasta, Cheese/eggs, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 lb Fettuccine; cook al dente,
           -drain
      8 oz Oil-pk sun-dried tomatoes;
           -cut into slivers lengthwise
           -reserve oil
    1/3 c  Olive oil drained from dried
           -tomatoes
      1 c  Pitted black olives; halve
      1 c  Basil leaves; pk loosely or
      2 tb Dried basil
      1 tb Lemon peel; grated
      2 cl Garlic; minced
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
    3/4 lb Moizzarella cheese; shred or
           -Swiss or Jack
 
  Combine all ingredients except pasta. Toss sauce with pasta and serve
  at once. Source: The Sonoma Dried Tomato Cookbook (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-Dried Tomato Marinara
 Categories: Tomatoes, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -LISA HLAVATY   (FDGN81A)
      2    Red sweet peppers; diced
      2    Green sweet peppers; diced
      2    Yellow sweet peppers; diced
    1/4 c  Clarified butter
     12 oz Jar sun-dried tomatoes
     10    Whole tomatoes; peel, dice
     46 oz Can tomato juice
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Ground oregano
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Tabasco sauce
      1 tb Horseradish
        x  Salt and white pepper
 
  In a large skillet cook the peppers in clarified butter until
  translucent. Add the sun-dried tomatoes and their juice, and cook for
  5 minutes. Set aside. In a saucepan over low heat combine the
  remaining ingredients. Bring the mixture to a boil, redcue the heat,
  and simmer for 30 minutes. Add the peppers and simmer to the desired
  temperature. Source: The Victoria (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swordfish w/Sun-dried Tomatoes/Olives/Lemon
 Categories: Tomatoes, Seafood, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -DONNA HARTMAN (HDDW83B)
      4    Marinated sun-dried tomatoes
      8    Kalamata olives; pitted
      1    Lemon; slice thin
      2    Swordfish steak
 
  Blend tomatoes with 8 pitted Kalamata olives. Lay lemon slice on the
  bottom of baking dish. Place swordfish steak on the top and spread
  the sundried tomato and olive mixture onto the swordfish. Bake for 17
  to 20 minutes in a preheated oven (350). (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Eggplant with Tomato Tapenade
 Categories: Tomatoes, Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------NORMA WRENN NPXR56B-------------------------
      2 md Eggplants
    1/4 c  WESSON Oil
      1 ts Garlic powder
    3/4 c  Tomato Tapenade; divided
    3/4 c  SARGENTO Fancy Supreme
           Shredded Parmesan Cheese
           -divided
           -TOMATO TAPENDADE
      3 oz Package dried tomatoes
      2 c  -water
      2 tb Wesson oil
      2    Cloves garlic; minced
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Dried whole basil
    1/2 ts Ground pepper
    1/4 c  Ripe olives; sliced
      1 tb Drained capers
 
  Trim ends from eggplant; cut crosswise into sixteen 1/2-inch-thick
  slices. Arrange slices on a greased baking sheet; brush both sides
  with oil, and sprinkle with garlic salt. Bake at 400~ for 8 minutes;
  turn eggplant, and bake an additional 5 minutes. Spread 1 tb Tomato
  Tapenade on each slice; sprinkle with 1 tablespoon cheese. Bake an
  additional 2 minutes. Tomato Tapenade Combine tomatoes and water in a
  small saucepan; bring to a boil. Cover; reduce heat, and simmer 10
  minutes or until tender. Drain well; pat dry with paper towels.
  Combine tomatoes, oil and remaining ingredients in a food processor
  or electric blender. Top with cover and process until coarsely
  pureed. Yield: about 1-1/3 cups. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops w/Pine Nuts and Dried Tomato
 Categories: Tomatoes, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -MICHAEL ROBERTS
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 lb Bay scallops; or large
           -sea scallops, halve
      4 tb Pine nuts
      1 tb Shallots; mince fine
      1 ts Garlic; mince fine
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/2 c  Oil-pk sun-dried tomatoes;
           -drain, pat with p/towels
      6 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Parsley; chop fine
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  IF THE DRIED TOMATOES are packed in oil, drain and pat them dry on a
  towel. Heat the oil in a large skillet over high heat. When the oil
  is almost smoking, toss in the scallops and cook for 30 seconds
  without stirring. Stir with a wooden spoon and let cook another
  minute. Using a slotted spoon, remove the scallops to a plate. They
  should be only partially cooked. Discard the fat from the skillet.
  Return the skillet to high heat, add the shallots, garlic, wine,
  lemon juice and dried tomatoes. Boil, reducing wine by half.
  Meanwhile, the scallops will have released a certain amount of
  liquid. Pour this into the pan and reduce until thick. Return the
  scallops and add the pine nuts to the pan, reduce the heat to low,
  whisk in the butter and add the chopped parsley, salt and pepper.
  Pour onto a serving platter. Source: Trump's Restaurant, Los Angeles
  (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turkey Breast Pinwheels
 Categories: Tomatoes, Poultry, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 lg Flour tortillas
      8 oz Pkg cream cheese; soft
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; soft
    1/4 ts Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 ts Ground white pepper
           Sprigs of fresh dill; or
           Dill pickles; cut thin
           -spears
      1 lg Pk moist smoked salmon;
           -thinly sliced
 
  Mix together cream cheese, butter, pepper, and lemon juice. (I do
  this in the food processor). Spread the tortillas, one at a time,
  with this mixture. Lay the smoked salmon slices, slightly
  overlapping, over the cream cheese mixture, leaving one edge of the
  cream cheese uncovered (this acts as the "glue" to hold the tortilla
  together when rolled.) Lay fresh dill sprigs or dill pickle spears
  down one edge; starting with this edge, roll up tightly, "gluing"
  tortilla together at the end with the uncovered edge of cream cheese.
  Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and chill, at least one hour or up to 24
  hours.  When ready to serve, unwrap and slice about 1/2" thick on a
  slight diagonal. TURKEY BREAST PINWHEELS WITH SUNDRIED TOMATO SPREAD
  Same as above, except substitute very thinly sliced turkey breast for
  the salmon, omit lemon juice from cream cheese mixture and add 1/4
  cup oil packed sundried tomatoes, finely chopped; use watercress in
  place of dill. You may have tortillas left over, use the amount of
  spread for each which gives a uniform covering with no tortilla
  showing through, but also not to thick!! If you like capers, they are
  wonderful added to the spread for the Salmon pinwheels. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vermicelli with No-Cook Tomato Sauce
 Categories: Tomatoes, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Oil-pk sun-dried tomatoes;
           -slivered
    1/4 c  Olive oil from tomatoes; or
           -1/2 c
    1/2 c  Parmesan; fresh grated
    1/2 c  Parsley; chopped
      2 cl Garlic; minced
      1 tb Lemon juice
      8 oz Vermicelli or thin spaghetti
           -cooked al dente
           Salt and pepper
 
  In a serving bowl, whisk together the eggs, tomatoes, oil, cheese,
  parsley, garlic and lemon juice. While the pasta is still hot, add to
  the egg mixture. Toss well to coat the pasta with the sauce. Season
  with salt and pepper. Serve hot. Source: Sun-Dried Tomatoes!! (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spaghettini with Dried Ttomatoes & Zucchini
 Categories: Tomatoes, Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
     12 oz Spaghettini; cook al dente
  8 1/2 oz Jar oil-pk sun-d tomatoes;
           -cut in thin strips, 3/4 c
      1 ts Lemon peel; grated
      1    Vegetable-flavor bouillon
           -cube or envelope
      2 tb Ex-virgin olive oil
      2 cl Garlic; thinly sliced
      5 sm Zucchini; cut 1" chunks
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
 
  In medium bowl, mix lemon peel, vegetable bouillon and 1-1/2 c hot
  water; set aside. In 12" skillet, in hot olive oil, cook garlic,
  stirring occasionally, until garlic is golden brown. With slotted
  spoon, remove and discard garlic. In hot oil, cook zucchini with
  pepper and 1 t salt until zucchini is golden brown and tender-crisp.
  Into zucchini, stir vegetable- bouillon mixture, dried tomatoes and
  spaghettini; heat through, tossing to coat well. Source GH mag (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMONGRASS PRIMER VMXV03A
 Categories: Thai, Condiments, Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Lemongrass
 
  Though common throughout southeast Asia, lemongrass is featured most
  prominently in the cuisine of Thailand, where it may be found growing
  in practically every house. It contains citral, the same substance
  found in the zest of a lemon, and 1 T of chopped fresh lemongrass has
  about the same "sour power" as an equal amount of minced lemon peel.
  Fresh lemongrass is increasingly available at Asian markets
  throughout the United States. It is easy to grow your own, either in
  the garden or as a houseplant. Stand a stalk in water until it starts
  sending out roots, pot it and place the plant in a sunny spot.    The
  entire stalk is useful. Aside from the instructions of specific
  recipes, cut a 6" section off the root end, remove the outer few
  layers from this lower part, chop the inner fiber and saute to make a
  crisp topping for chicken or to put into salads and sauces. The
  tougher outer layers can be chopped and added to marinades for
  chicken or pork, or mashed and brewed for tea. The top of the stalk
  can be bundled and added to stock or used as a flavoring for hot and
  sour soup. Condensed from Bon Appetit, June,1992. Mail order sources
  given are Tommy Tang and Dean & DeLuca. For information on Thai
  cooking kits and fresh lemongrass, call A Univesal Foods Odyssey,
  800-238-AUFO. Condensation and MM format by Mike Kean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI SPICY SAUSAGE (SAI GROG) HKRT62B
 Categories: Thai, Appetizers, Main dish
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      3 c  Ground pork
      1 tb Thai red curry paste
    1/4 ts MSG-optional
    1/2 ts Coriander seeds-finely crush
    1/2 ts Fish sauce
      1 ts Chpd coriander roots or lvs
      1 tb Chpd fresh lemon grass(base)
      1    Green onion-finely chopped
      1 ts Fnly chopd KAFFIR lime leave
      1    Sausage casings
      1    Thread or string to close en
 
  *** Mix all ingredients in a large bowl, set aside. Fill pork mixture
  into casing using a teaspoon. Close ends tie every 5" along the
  filled casing. Before grilling, make a small pinhole on either side
  of the sausage. This is to ensure that the sausage doesn't burst when
  being cooked. Grill on the bar-b-que grill outside on in an oven
  broiler. Cook until brown and juicy. Serve hot with cooked sticky
  rice or warm cooked rice. From Sopit Merrill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI SAUSAGE-CHIANG MAI STYLE BWHT68A
 Categories: Thai
      Yield: 5 servings
 
           (Sai Grog Chiang Mai)
      4 x  Lg Dried chilies,
           Soak in water until soft
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Minced lemon grass
      1 ts Minced cilantro roots
      1 ts Kaffir lime zest/lime zest
    1/2 ts Minced galanga
      2 ts Minced garlic
      1 tb Minced red onions
      2 c  Ground pork (80-85% lean)
      1 tb Minced Kaffir lime leaves
    1/4 c  Chopped cilantro leaves
      2 tb Fish sauce
           Long sausage casing, 25"
    1/4 c  Salt
 
  Turn the casing inside out and rub with 1/4 cup salt and a little
  water gently but very well. Rinse again and again until it become
  odorless. Then turn it right side out and squeeze out the excess
  water. Combine softened dried chilies, 1/2 tsp salt, lemon grass,
  cilantro roots, Kaffir lime zest, galanga, garlic and onions in a
  blender and grind to a paste. Mix the chili paste, pork, Kaffir lime
  leaves, cilantro leaves and fish sauce well. Tie a knot a one end of
  the casing and stuff with the pork mixture. Tie another knot to
  close. Poke a few holes with a clean needles where the bubbles are
  present inside. Charbroil or fry over medium-low heat until golden
  brown and fully cooked. Poke a few holes while cooking to prevent
  rupturing. Slice into 1/2" thick pieces. Serve with cooked sticky
  rice and raw vegetables. Makes about 5 servings. From Gail Shimizu.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI SWEET CHILI SAUCE VMXV03A
 Categories: Thai, Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Rice vinegar
    1/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Plum sauce
      1 tb Thai fish sauce
      1 tb Fresh lime or lemon juice
      2 ts Tomato paste
      1 ts Minced garlic
    1/2 ts Minced serrano chili
    1/2 ts Ground red chili paste
    1/2 ts Sweet paprika
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts All-purpose flour, mixed
           -with 1 T cold water
 
  Combine all ingredients and 1/2 c water in a small saucepan, and
  bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 4 minutes. Let cool. Will
  keep in refrigerator for 3 days.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI CHILI FISH SAUCE VMXV03A
 Categories: Thai, Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 tb Thai fish sauce
      5 tb Thinly sliced scallions
      3 tb Fresh lime or lemon juice
      3 tb Finely chopped cilantro
  1 1/2 tb Minced serrano chilies
      2 ts Roasted chili paste
    1/2 ts Minced garlic
 
  Combine all ingredients in a small bowl and mix well. Will keep in
  refrigerator for 3 days.Recipe from Tommy Tang, New Yorker Magazine,
  5/25/92. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PORK SATE WITH PEANUT DIPPING SAUCE VMXV03A
 Categories: Thai, Appetizers, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Plus 1 T mncd frsh lemongras
           -(frm bottom 6" of stalk)
      3 tb Fresh lime juice
      2 tb Dark brown sugar
      1 tb Soy sauce
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
    3/4 lb Pork tenderloin, trimmed,
           Cut 3"x1/2"W x 1/4" thick
      1 c  Or more, chicken broth
    1/2 c  Creamy peanut butter, not
           Old fashion or frsh grd
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 tb Coriander seeds
    1/2    Jalapeno chili, minced
     12    8" bamboo skewers
           Minced green onion tops
 
  Soak skewers in water for 30 minutes. Mix 1 T ea lemongrass, lime
  juice & sugar with soy sauce and garlic in a large bowl. Add pork,
  toss to coat and marinate 30 min. to 1 hr. Mix remaining lemongrass,
  lime juice & sugar with broth, peanut butter, onion, coriander and
  jalapeno in heavy, medium saucepan. Bring to boil, whisking
  frequently. Transfer mixture to blender and puree. Strain into heavy,
  small saucepan, pressing on solids with back of spoon. Discard
  solids. Simmer until reduced to thick sauce consistency, stirring
  frequently, about 6 minutes. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover &
  refrigerate. Reheat before using, thinning with more broth if
  necessary.) Preheat broiler (or grill). Thread 3 pork strips on each
  skewer. Broil until cooked through, about 3 minutes per side. Pour
  sauce into bowl; set in center of platter. Sprinkle with green onion.
  Surround with pork skewers and serve. From Bon Appetit, June, 1992.
  MM format by Mike Kean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI FISH CURRY VMXV03A
 Categories: Thai, Seafood, Rice
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/3 c  Finely chopped onion
      2 tb Mncd frsh cilantro stems
      2 tb Mncd frsh lemongrass
           (frm bottom 6" of stalk)
      1 tb Turmeric
      1 tb Mncd fresh ginger
      1 tb Ground cumin
      3    Lge garlic clvs, halved
    3/4 ts Dried crushed red pepper
      1 tb Vegetable oi
    3/4 lb 1 1/2" thick sea bass
           Fillets, cut in 3" pieces
      1 c  Cnd unswtnd coconut milk
    2/3 c  Bottled clam juice
           Minced fresh cilantro
           Freshly cooked rice
 
  Blend first 8 ingredients in processor to dry paste, stopping
  frequently to scrape down sides of work bowl. (Paste can be prepared
  3 days ahead. Cover and chill.) Heat oil in medium nonstick skillet
  over med-high heat. Add 2 rounded T spice paste; stir 1 minute. Add
  fish and cook 2 minutes, turning occasionally with tongs. Add coconut
  milk and clam juice and simmer until fish is cooked through, turning
  occasionally, about 6 minutes. Transfer fish to plate. Boil liquid
  until reduced to thick sauce, about 8 minutes. Season with salt.
  Return fish to sauce and heat through. Sprinkle with cilantro. Serve
  over rice. From Bon Appetit, June, 1992. MM format by Mike Kean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RICE WITH LEMONGRASS & GREEN ONION VMXV03A
 Categories: Thai, Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    2/3 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/4 ts Turmeric
      1 c  Long-grain white rice
  1 3/4 c  Water
      2    12" long lemongrass stalks,
           -cut into 2" long pieces
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Large green onion, chopped
 
  Heat 1 1/2 T oil in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat. Add 2/3
  cup onion and turmeric and saute 5 minutes. Mix in rice. Add water,
  lemongrass and 1/2 ts salt and bring to simmer. Cover, reduce heat to
  medium-low and simmer until rice is tender and liquid is absorbed,
  about 18 minutes. Remove from heat; let stand covered 10 minutes.
  Discard lemongrass. Heat remaining 1/2 T oil in heavy large skillet
  over medium heat. Add green onion and saute 1 minute. Add rice and
  stir until heated through. Season to taste with salt. From Bon
  Appetit, June, 1992. MM format by Mike Kean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI SATAY
 Categories: Thai, Appetizers, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           - Pam Coombes RNCM95A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
  1 1/2 lb Beef sirloin tip or top
           -round, cut in 1" cubes
      2    Cloves garlic, crushed
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Fresh ground black pepper
      1 ts Sugar
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Rub beef with garlic, pressing garlic into meat. Sprinkle with salt,
  pepper, and sugar. Cut beef inot 1-inch pieces; thread on skewers. Set
  aside. Combine lemon juice and soy sauce; brush over meat. Grill or
  broil 3 to 4 inches from heat until borwned on all sides. Serve with
  Satay Sauce Makes 4 to 6 servings Pork Satay: Use lean pork instead
  of beef; season with 1/2 t powdered ginger and 1/4 t cinnamon in
  addition to pepper. Satay Sauce 2 cloves of garlic, crushed 4 T
  peanut butter 1 T vinegar or lemon juice 3 T soy sauce 1/4 t cayenne
  4 T hot water (1/4 Cup) Combine all ingredients, beat to blend. Makes
  about 3/4 cup.Now to me it would not be complete without this
  cucumber condiment (makes 1 cup) 1 firm, medium sized cucumber 2 T
  distilled vinegar 2 T sugar 1 t salt 1/4 t ground white pepper 1/2
  small yellow onion, peeled, sliced lengthwise into paper thin slivers
  12 paper thin lengthwise slivers of seeded hot fresh red chile
  peppers, about 1/4 inch long
  
  Garnish:  1/2 c dry roasted unsalted peanuts, coarsley chopped.
  Julienne the cucumber. In a deep bowl, stir the vinegar, sugar,salt
  and white pepper until well blended. Add the remaining ingredients,
  except peanuts, and toss with the marinade. Top with the peanuts just
  befor serving. Serve at once or cover and chill no longer than 2
  hours before serving. Hope you like and again Welcome, Pam in
  Fairfax,VA
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI TURKEY BITES
 Categories: Thai, Poultry, Appetizers
      Yield: 25 servings
 
           - Pam Coombes RNCM95A
           - MM:MK VMXV03A
    1/4 c  Boiling water
      3 tb Brown sugar
      3 tb Lime or lemon juice
      1 md Cucumber, cut in half
           -lenghtwise and cut into
           -1/4 inch thick slices.
    1/2 sm Onion, thinly sliced,
           -halved and separated into
           -rings
      1    Red or green chili pepper,
           -chopped fine
      1 lb Ground turkey
      4 ts Fish or soy sauce
      1 tb Red curry paste or 1 ts
           -chili powder and 1/2 t
           -sesame oil
 
  For sauce: In a mixing bowl combined water, brown sugar, and lime
  juice. Stir till brown sugar dissolves. Add cucumber slices, onion,
  and chili pepper. Mix well. Cover and chill up to 3 days. In a mixing
  bowl, combine ground turkey, fish or soy sauce, and red curry paste.
  mix well. Shape turkey mixture into 1-inch meatballs; flatten
  slightly. Arrange meatballs in a microwave safe 8x8x2 inch baking
  dish. Cover dish loosely with waxed paper. Micro-cook on 100% power
  for 5 to 7 minutes or till done, turning meatballs over and rotating
  dish a half-turn once. To serve, place meatballs in a chafing dish
  over burner. Transfer sauce to serving bowl. With a toothpick spear a
  cucumber slice, then a meatball. Dip in sauce. Makes 25 to 30
  meatballs. Meatballs maybe frozen.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VIETNAMESE -  LEMONGRASS CHICKEN
 Categories: Vietnamese, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           - Joe   JPMD44A   Comiskey
           -
      3 lb Frying chicken
    1/2 c  Lemongrass, about 4 stalks
           -                 minced  **
      3    Scallion; all of them
      2 tb Peanut oil
      2    Red chile peppers; chopped
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Chicken stock; fresh / can'd
    1/4 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
      1 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Dry-roasted peanuts; chopped
      2 tb Nuoc Mam  **
           Coriander leaves; chopped
 
     Hack the chicken into small serving pieces, chopping through the
  bones with a very sharp cleaver.
     Remove the outer leaves of the lemongrass and finely slice the
  tender white part at the base of the stalks. Bruise with a mortar and
  pestle or the handle of a cleaver.
     Finely slice the scallions, including the green tops.
     Mix the chicken with the salt, 1/4 teaspoon pepper, the lemongrass
  and scallions and set aside for 30 minutes.
     Heat a wok and add the oil, and when the oil is hot add the chicken
  mixture and stir-fry for 3 minutes.
     Add chile peppers and stir-fry on medium heat for 10 minutes or
  until chicken no longer looks pink.
     Season with sugar and pepper and add the chicken stock. Stir for a
  few minutes.
     Garnish with the peanuts, "nuoc mam" and coriander.
   Serve with rice, if desired.
     This quickly prepared but terrifically flavorful dish is great
  served with rice paper wrappers.  I love it with a few leaves of mint
  and basil. This is one you must try. It is easily done in a wok. By
  Jeff Smith The Frugal Gourmet From the 02/05/1992 issue of The
  Springfield Union-News Meal-Mastered by  Joe Comiskey 09/05/1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PEANUT-CRUSTED CHICKEN W/THAI HOT/SWEET SAUCE
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Thai, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -KVNH17B
      1 c  Dry roasted peanuts; ground
           -fine
    1/3 c  Yellow cornmeal
  4 1/2 tb Garlic; minced
      1 tb Fresh ginger; minced
      2    Stalks fresh lemongrass
    1/2 ts Black pepper
     12 tb Coarse salt
  1 1/3 c  Rice flour
      2 c  Buttermilk
  3 1/2 lb Chicken; quartered
    1/2 c  Distilled white vinegar
      1 c  Sugar
      2    4" dried hot red chilies
  1 1/2 tb Nam pla (Thai fish sauce)
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Discard outer leaves of the lemongrass. Slice thin the bottom 4" and
  mash to a paste in a mortar with pestle. In a shallow bowl, stir
  together the peanuts, cornmeal, 2 Tbsp. of the garlic, gingerroot,
  lemongrass, black pepper, salt and 1/3 cup of the flour. Have ready,
  in 2 separate shallow bowls, the remaining 1 cup of flour and the
  buttermilk. Dredge the chicken pieces well in the flour, shaking off
  the excess, dip them in the buttermilk, letting the excess drip off,
  and roll them in the peanut mixture, transferring them as they are
  coated to an oiled shallow baking dish.
   Bake the chicken, covered tightly with foil, in the middle of a
  preheated 350F oven for 45 minutes, remove the foil carefully and
  bake the chicken for 20 - 25 minutes more, or until golden (the
  chicken will crisp as it cools). In a small saucpan combine the
  vinegar, sugar, remaining 2 1/2 Tbsp. garlic, crushed red chilies,
  nam pla and the water, bring the mixture to a boil, and simmer it
  until it is reduced by half. Serve the chicken with the sauce.
  (Gourmet 12/91)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI SATAY WITH SPICY PEANUT SAUCE
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Salsa/sauce, Thai
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Gail Shimizu BWHT68A
      2 lb Pork or chicken; sliced
           -into strips 1" X 4" and
           -1/4" thick
    3/4 c  Thick coconut milk; for
           -basting meat while cooking
     40    Bamboo skewers; (soak in
           -water before using)

MMMMM----------------------FOR FOR MARINADE---------------------------
  1 1/2 tb Lemon grass; thinly sliced
           -(use only the base, about
           -1 to 3" from the root)
      1 tb Galanga (Kha); minced
      2 tb Red onions; minced
  1 1/2 tb Garlic; minced
      2 tb Ground coriander seeds
      1 tb Indian yellow curry powder
      1 tb Kaffir lime leaves; finely
           -chopped
  2 1/2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM----------------------FOR PEANUT SAUCE---------------------------
      7    Medium seeded dried chilies;
           -soaked in warm water until
           -soft
  1 1/2 ts Galanga (Kha); minced
      2 tb Cilantro roots; minced
  1 1/2 tb Lemon grass; finely chopped
  2 1/2 tb Garlic; minced
  3 1/2 tb Red onions; chopped
      1 ts Ground coriander seeds
  1 1/2 ts Thai shrimp paste
      5 c  Medium consistency coconut
           -milk
    1/3 c  Creamy peanut butter (do not
           -use Peter Pan)
    1/4 c  Sugar
  3 1/2 ts Salt
 
  In a blender or food processor, grind the listed ingredients, from
  lemon grass to salt, finely. Mix with the meat (wear latex gloves to
  do this, it stains) and marinate for 1 hour. Place meat strips on
  BGMB90B ===============   Reply   77 of Note    1 =================
  
  BOARD:      FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE SUBJECT: R-MM THAI
  AND VIET R
  
  TO:     BGMB90B    ELAINE RADIS          DATE:    07/16 FROM: BGMB90B
  ELAINE RADIS          TIME:     1:48 PM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PLA NUNG HORAPA
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, Thai, Asian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -Gail Shimizu BWHT68A
      2 lb Whole red snapper or
           -white fish
      1 ts Galanga; finely chopped
    1/2 tb Lemon grass; *
      6    Medium fresh red chilies
      2 tb Red onions; chopped
      1 tb Preserved soy beans,
           -(Tao Geo Kao)
      1 tb Fish sauce (Nam Pla)
      1 ts Kaffir lime leaves;
           -thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Basil leaves,
           -(Thai basils preferred)
 
  (Thai Steamed Fish with Basil)
  
   * Sliced thinly-crosswise (use the base only, about 2 or 3 inches
  from the root)
  
  DIRECTIONS: Chop coarsely--the Galanga, lemon grass, onions, chilies
  and soy beans in a blender or food processor (add a tbsp of water if
  necessary). Wash, clean and pat dry the fish well. Cut 3-4 deep slits
  crosswise on both sides and cover with the spice mixture pushing the
  mixture into the slits. Place the dressed fish in a platter deep
  enough to accommodate extra liquid when the fish is cooked.
   Place the platter in the steamer. Sprinkle basils and Kaffir lime
  leaves. Place 2 pieces of paper towels over the top but not on the
  fish to catch any excess moisture while steaming. Cover and steam
  over high heat for 20 minutes or until fish is fully cooked. Serve
  immediately with cooked rice.
   NOTE: All the listed ingredients can be found in any Thai grocery
  stores.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KAENG PED CAI
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Thai, Asian, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -J.Applebury GENIE
      4 lg Whole chicken breasts
      2 tb Peanut oil
      1 tb Dried hot chiles; crushed
      6    Cloves garlic; minced
      1 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Lemon rind; grated
    1/4 ts Shrimp paste or anchovy
           -paste
    1/8 ts Caraway seed
    1/4 ts Ground coriander
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2 c  Coconut milk
      4    Green onions; chopped
      1 ts Fresh coriander; chopped
      1    Red bell pepper; seeded and
           -cut into thin strips
           Salt, to taste
           Steamed rice; to accompany
 
  Bone chicken breasts, remove skin (reserve for stock or another future
  use), and cut breasts into strips 1/4" wide and 2" long.
   In a large wok or skillet, heat oil until it is almost smoking. Add
  chiles, garlic, paprika, lemon rind, shrimp paste, caraway, ground
  coriander, and sugar, and stir rapidly for 1 minute. Add chicken
  breasts and stir-fry until evenly coated with seasonings and hot
  throughout (about 2 minutes).
   Pour in coconut milk and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. Stir
  in green onions, fresh coriander, and bell pepper. Season to taste
  with salt. Immediately remove from heat. Serve with hot steamed rice.
  Serves 6.
   J.APPLEBURY [AppleDebbie]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GA XAO XA OT
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Thai, Asian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Karen Adler FNGP13B
      3 lb Chicken
      4    Cloves garlic
      1    Large onion
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      1    Salt
      2 tb Lemon grass; minced
      1 ts Ground chilies
      4 tb Fish sauce (nuoc mam)
      1 tb Granulated sugar
      1 tb Caramel sauce (below)
      1 c  Water
 
  (Thai Chicken in Lemon Grass and Chile)
  
  Rinse chicken and dry well. Cut into small pieces. Peel garlic and
  slice finely. Cut onion into halves lengthwise and then cut
  lengthwise into 1/2" strips. Heat oil in large frying pan over medium
  heat. Add a pinch of salt, garlic and onion. Fry over medium heat
  until onion becomes translucent. Add lemon grass and chili. Fry 1 to
  2 minutes until fragrant.
   Add chicken and cook until lightly browned. Add fish sauce, sugar and
  caramel sauce. Mix well. Add 1 cup water and cook 45 minutes or until
  chicen is tender. Stir occasionally and add more water if necessary.
  Makes 4 servings.
  
  CARAMEL SAUCE: Mix 1/2 c sugar with 4 tablespoons of water in a heavy
  saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium heat and let boil until mixture
  changes colour. Turn heat down to low and heat until brown. Add 1/2
  cup water to mixture. Stir until sugar is dissolved. Remove from heat
  and store in a jar in the refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STIR-FRIED SHRIMP WITH LEMON GRASS
 Categories: Seafood, Thai
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -O.Evans VPRJ01A

MMMMM-------------------------A MIXTURE------------------------------
      1 tb Lemon gras; chopped fine
      1 tb Garlic; chopped
           Fresh ground pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      4    Dried chili peppers; seeded
           -soaked and chopped

MMMMM-------------------------B MIXTURE------------------------------
      3 tb Fish soy
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch disolved in
      2 tb Water
      4 tb Oil
      2 lb Large shrimp; shelled
    1/4 lb Mushrooms; cut up
    1/4 lb Snow peas; stringed

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
    1/4 c  Peanuts; chopped
      2 tb Green onion; slivered
 
  Pound A Mixture ingredients to a paste in a mortar or in a food
  processor. Mix the B Mixture and set aside Heat the oil in a wok and
  add the a mixture and stir-fry until the aroma is released (a few
  seconds). Increase heat and add shrimp, mushrooms and snow peas for 3
  minutes. Add the B Mixture and blend well. Garnish and serve with
  rice or fried fine noodles.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PANANG BEEF
 Categories: Thai, Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -LEAH LADNE   (DBBC03B)
      1 lb Beef
    1/4 ts Salt
           White pepper
      8    Dried red chilis
      1    Fresh Kha (Thai ginger 1")
      3    Shallots
      6    Cloves garlic
      2 ts Lemon grass; chopped
      1 ts Coriander root; chopped
      1 ts Kaffir; chopped
           Lime peel
     10    Peppercorns
      1 ts Shrimp paste
  4 1/3 c  Thin coconut milk
  1 2/3 c  Coconut cream
      1 c  Roasted peanuts; crushed
     12    Basil leaves
      2 tb Fish sauce
      2 tb Palm sugar
           Kaffir lime leaves; shredded
           Fresh red chilis; shredded
 
  If you haven't already, you should try the version at the Wild Ginger
  at Pike Place.  Here's a recipe:
  
  Cut beef into thin slices, season with salt and pepper. Soak chilis to
  soften.  Chop chilis, ginger, shallots and garlic. Place them in
  mortar with lemon grass, coriander root, lime peel, peppercorns, and
  shrimp paste, pound until smooth.
  
  Pour coconut milk in wok, bring to boil.  Add beef, cook until tender,
  remove, set aside. Discard milk. Pour coconut cream in wok, bring to
  boil. Reduce heat and simmer until oil separates. Add spice paste,
  cook 4-5 min, stirring constantly.  Add beef, peanuts, 8 basil
  leaves, fish sauce and sugar, stir well and cook slowly 2 more min.
  
  Transfer to serving dish, garnish with basil, lime leaves and chilis.
  This version is about 2 stars.
   enjoy Scott, Seattle
  
  Formatted by Elaine Radis BGMB90B; JUNE, 1993
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Cucumber-Tomato Relish
 Categories: Indian, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Cucumber
      1 md Tomato
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Fr. ground black pepper
      1 ts Roasted grnd cumin seeds
  1 1/2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Cilantro
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper (optional)
 
  Dice cucumber and tomato.  Combine all ingredient in serving bowl. Mix
  well.  Cover and refrigerate for 30 minutes.  To Serve: Bring cold
  serving bowl to table.  Enjoy or not as you choose.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tandoori Chicken - My Version
 Categories: Indian, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 md Onion, corsely chopped
      6    Cloves garlic, chopped
      1 sl Ginger root,1"x2",peel&chopd
      3 tb Lemon juice
      8 oz Plain yogurt
      1 tb Ground coriander
      1 tb Ground turmeric
      1 ts Garam Marsala
    1/4 ts Ground mace
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
      4 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Cayenne Pepper (optional)
      6    Chicken legs
      3    Chicken breasts, halved

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1 md Sliced onion
      2    Lemons
 
     Make the marinade first.  Put the chopped onions, garlic, ginger,
  and lemon juice in an electric blender and blend to a smooth paste.
  Place this in a bowl large enough to accommodate the chicken.  Add
  the yogurt, coriander, cumin, turmeric, garam masala,m mace, nutmeg,
  cloves, cinnamon, olive oil, salt, black pepper, and cayenn.  Mix
  thouroughly.
     Skin chicken legs and breasts.  With a sharp knife make 3 diagonal
  slashes on each breast section, going halfway down to the bone.  Make
  2 diagonal slashes on each thigh halfway to the bone.  Make 4 or 5
  jabs on each drumstick.
     Put the chicken in the marinade and rub the marinade into the
  slashes with your finger.  Cover and refrigerate for 24 hours,
  turning 4 or 5 times.
     About 1 1/2 hours before serving, light charcoal.
     Peel onion for garnishing and slice paper-thin.  Separate rings
  into ice water and chill.
     Grill chicken 7 or 8 minutes on each side, then raise the grill
  and cook another 15 to 20 minutes on each side.  Baste with marinade
  as you cook.
     Warm a large platter.  Place chicken pieces on platter - drain
  onion rings and lay on top.  Quarter lemons lengthwise and place them
  around chicken - the chicken is good with extra lemon juice squeezed
  on.
  
  Source: Madhur Jaffery, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking."
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Green Chutney
 Categories: Indian, Relishes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  (packed) chopped cilantro
      1    Fresh green chili, chopped
      8 oz Plain yogurt
    1/2 ts Salt (more if needed)
    1/8 ts Ground pepper
    1/2 ts Roasted ground cumin seeds
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Put the cilantro and chili in the contain of an elecrtic blender with
  3 tbs water and blend until you have a smooth paste.
  
  In a non-metallic bowl, combine the yogurt, salt, pepper, cumin, lemon
  juice, and paste from the blender.  Cover and refrigerate until ready
  to use.
  
  To Serve: Bring the cooled bowl to the table.  People should take
  just a tablespoon at a time.
  
  Source: Madhur Jaffery, "An Invitation to Indian Cooking."
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOT CRAB WITH VEGETABLES  FBFJ97A
 Categories: Seafood, Vegetables, Main dish, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 ea Medium tomatoes;skin/peel
      1 c  Evaporated skim milk
      2 tb Margerine
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
     16 oz Imitation Crab
    1/4 lb Mushrooms
    1/2 c  Frozen peas
    1/2 c  Spiral vegetable pasta
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
 
      Cook tomatoes for 5 min.  Add milk and margarine, and cook for 10
  minutes.  Add next four ingredients.  Stir in crabl and remove from
  heat. Meanwhile, steam mushrooms and peas.  Cook pasta for 8 minutes
  in boiling water; drain.  Mix crab sauce with pasta and vegetables in
  large serving bowl.  Sprinkle with cheese and serve. NUTRIENTS PER
  SERVING: 189 calories 55% carbohydrate  29% protein  16% fat
      *****SHAPE MAGAZINE  3/92*****
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hollandaise Sauce/Low-Fat
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------LIZ JONES VXRF36B--------------------------
      2 tb Liquid Butter Buds
      1 c  Boiling water
     12 ts Lite salt; opt
      1 tb Flour
      2 ea Egg Beaters; beaten
      1 x  Juice of 1/2 lemon
 
  Combine Butter Buds and flour in a sauce pan.  Add boiling water,
  stirring constantly.  Cook over low heat. Beat Egg Beaters, salt and
  lemon juice together. Add some of the first mixture to this before
  slowly adding to the Butter Buds, flour, and water.  Cook until the
  spoon is well coated. This is delicious, easy to make, and will keep
  well. It is just as good warmed over as it is fresh off the stove.
  Yields: 1 1/2 cups = 6- 1/2 cup servings. Per serving: Fat: 0g;
  Calories: 12; Protien: 1.2g; Cholesterol: 0mg; Carbohydrate: 1.47g;
  Sodium: 16mg Source: "Butter Busters" by Pam Mycoskie - 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Duck with Cranberry Sauce
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4 lb Duckling
    1/4 c  Port Wine
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Chicken Broth
    1/4 c  Orange Juice
      2 tb Brown Sugar
    1/2 c  Cranberries
      1 ds Cayenne Pepper
    1/2    Lemon
      1 ds Salt
      1 ds Ground Pepper
 
    Rinse duck under cold water and pat dry.Remove any large lumps of
  fat from skin. Rub inside cavity and skin of duck with lemon and
  season cavity and skin with salt and pepper. Truss bird, place on
  rack and set in shallow roasting pan. Roast at 350 degrees for 30
  minutes Pierce skin all over with fork to release fat.
  
    Continue roasting until duck is completely cooked, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
  About once every hour, remove all but 1 cup of fat from pan, some
  remaining fat will keep pan from scorching. Increase oven temperature
  to 500 degrees for the last 15 minutes of roasting to crisp skin.
  
  Remove duck from oven and set on warm plate. Pour off and discard fat.
  Place roasting pan on top of stove. Add port and heat over low heat,
  scraping up any browned bits. Add butter and heat until melted. Add
  flour, stirring until smooth.
  
  Add chicken broth and whisk constantly until smooth and thickened, 2
  to 3 minutes. Stir in orange juice and 2 tbs. brown sugar and mix
  well. Add cranberries and cook over high heat until cranberries pop,
  2 to 3 minutes. Add cayenne and more salt and pepper to taste. If
  mixture is too tart, add remaining brown sugar.
  
    To serve, cut duck in half lengthwise using poultry shears and
  place on two serving dishes. Pour half of sauce over each serving.
  Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Cranberry Relish
 Categories: Fruit, Condiments, Side dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Oranges
      2    Lemons
     12 oz Cranberries
  1 2/3 c  Sugar
 
  Makes 1 qt.
  
  Peel oranges with a paring knife, cutting right down to the flesh and
  removing all the white pith.  Cut oranges into chunks and remove
  seeds. Grate 1 Tbs of the colored zest from the lemons.  Combine
  oranges, zest, cranberries and sugar in a food processor or blender.
  Whir until coarsely chopped.
  
  From First magazine Posted by Theresa Merkling
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimp, Chicken, and Pinapple Kebabs
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Jalepeno baste**
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
     36    Jumbo shrimp, shelled
  1 1/2 lb Boneless chicken breast
      1    Pinapple
           Vegetable oil
 
  **Jalepeno baste: Seed and coarsely chop 2 jalepeno peppers. Saute in
  oil until soft, and add 1 heaping tb of sugar.  Puree.  Add a little
  oil if the mixture seems too thick.
  
  Cut chicken into 3/4 inch chunks.  Peel and core pinapple and cut into
  chunks.
  
  Combine jalepeno baste with with lemon juice and heat through. Thread
  the shrimp, the chicken, and the pinapple, alternating them, onto the
  skewers. Brush with the jalepeno mixture, sprinkle with salt and
  pepper, and grill for 6 - 7 minutes over glowing coals until done.
  
  OR broil in the oven.  OR cook 10 minutes in the Jet-Stream Oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Open-Faced Crab Sandwiches
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Finely chopped red pepper
    1/4 c  Finely chopped green pepper
    1/4 c  Finely chopped onion
      1    Garlic clove, minced
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 lb Crab meat, picked over
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1    Egg, hard boiled, chopped
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Mayonnaise
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/8 ts Cayenne, or to taste
      2    English muffins*
      2 tb Freshly grated Parmesan
 
  In a large skillet cook the bell peppers, onion, and garlic in the
  butter over mederately low heat, stirring, until the vegetables are
  softened. Stir in the crab meat, the lemon juice, the egg, the
  Worcestershire sauce, the mayonnaise, the mustard, and the cayenne,
  and divide the mixture among the muffin halves, mounding slightly.
  Sprinkle the sandwiches with Parmesan and broil under a preheated
  broiler about 4 inches from the heat for 3 to 4 minutes, or until the
  tops are just golden.
  
  Source: The Best of Gourmet VI
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baba Ganoush
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips/spread, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 batch
 
  1 1/2 lb Eggplant
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Minced fresh garlic
      3 tb Sesame tahini
           -- (optional: substitute
           -- yogurt or sour cream)
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
    1/2 c  Toasted pine nuts
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.  Prick eggplant all over with a fork.
  Bake whole until tender (about 30 minutes).  Remove from oven, halve
  and scoop out the flesh.  Blend in a food processor with the lemon
  juice until smooth.  Mash the salt and garlic together and combine
  with the eggplant, along with the tahini.  Cool and stir in the
  parsley and pine nuts. Before serving, drizzle with the olive oil.
  Serve as a dip with tortilla chips or triangles of flat (pita) bread.
  
  (Adapted from The Victory Garden Cookbook) From: The Cook's Garden
  catalog, Spring/Summer 1993 (page 20)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baby Carrots in Herb Vinegar
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     20 sm Carrots; washed & trimmed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Tarragon vinegar
 
  Place carrots, water and lemon juice in small saucepan.  Cover and
  simmer 5 minutes.  Remove cover, increase heat to high and cook,
  stirring, until liquid evaporates (5 minutes).  Turn heat down.
  
  From: The Cook's Garden catalog - Spring/Summer 1989 - page 5
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ratatouille with Cinnamon Basil
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 sm Eggplants
      6 tb Lemon juice
      1 md Onion, sliced
      1    Garlic clove
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 md Zucchini, coarsely chopped
      2 tb Fresh cinnamon basil
           ;chopped
      2 tb Fresh sweet basil, chopped
      5    Plum tomatoes
      1    Red pepper, chopped
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley, chopped
 
  Cut a 1/2" slice along length of each eggplant.  If using round
  variety, remove about one inch of the top.  Carefully scoop out
  flesh, leaving 1/2" thick walls.  Chop eggplant flesh, place in a
  medium sized bowl, and toss with 1 tb. lemon juice.  Set aside. Using
  another tablespoon of lemon juice, brush inside of each eggplant
  shell.
  
  In a skillet over medium heat, saute the onions and garlic in oil. Add
  chopped eggplants, zucchini and basil.  Cook, stirring, until
  eggplants are tender.  Add tomatoes and peppers to mixture; cook for
  10 minutes. Remove from heat.  Stir in parsley and remaining lemon
  juice. Divide ratatouille among eggplant shells.  Cool and serve at
  room temperature.
  
  Recipe developed by Ellen Ogden. In "The Cook's Garden" catalog. Vol.
  8, No. 1.  Spring/Summer 1991.  Pg. 54.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Radish Spread
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Dips/spread, Herbs/spice, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 cup
 
     12 sm Radishes
      2 tb Dill or basil, fine chopped
      8 oz Cream cheese
           Lemon juice (opt'l.)
 
  Wash and trim radishes.  In a food processor fitted with a steel
  blade, grate radishes and herbs briefly.  Blend in cream cheese and
  lemon juice. Refrigerate.  Serve on crackers or thin slices of bread.
  
  Recipe developed by Ellen Ogden.  In "The Cook's Garden" catalog,"
  Vol. 9, No. 1.  Spring 1992.  Pg. 48.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ray Parrella's Pasta Salad
 Categories: Italian, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      8 oz Creamy Italian dressing
      1 tb Lemon juice
      4 tb ;Water
    1/2 ts Oregano flakes
    1/2 ts Basil flakes

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      8 oz Small pasta, medium shells
           -- or fusilli
      2 c  Chopped fresh vegetables*
      1 c  Tuna, chicken or seafood
           -- cooked or canned
           Lettuce for salad plates
 
  *Vegetables can include all or some of the following: broccoli or
  cauliflower florets, fresh tomatoes, carrots, sweet pepper, green
  onion, zucchini or summer squash.
  
  To make the dressing, put all ingredients in a large decanter, mixing
  well. Refrigerate.
  
  To make the salad, cook pasta according to package directions.  Drain,
  rinse, coat with a little dressing, and toss.  This will keep pasta
  from sticking and preserve it for several days.  Store in covered
  container in refrigerator.
  
  Before serving, heat pasta for 30 seconds in microwave, then toss with
  vegetables and tuna, chicken or seafood.  Add a little more dressing.
  Serve on lettuce-lined plates.
  
  Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
  
  Colombo wrote: "This is a delightful salad that's excellent on a hot
  summer night."
  
  From Alice Colombo's 08/05/92 "Cook's Corner" column in "The
  (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal," in response to Louisvillean Olivia
  McCullough's request for the recipe.  Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Trout with Fennel
 Categories: Fish, Fruit, Herbs/spice, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lg Fresh rainbow trout (2-3 lb)
           -- head left on if desired
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1    Lemon; cut in slices
      4    Fennel sprigs (up to 6)
           -- (the feathery fronds)
      2 tb Butter; cut in small pieces

MMMMM----------------MEUNIERE BUTTER WITH FENNEL---------------------
    1/3 c  Unsalted butter
    1/2 sm Lemon; juice of
           Salt and pepper; to taste
      1 tb Chopped fresh fennel leaves
 
  Wash and clean trout thoroughly, scraping skin with a dull knife.
  Pat dry. Cut off fins with scissors or sharp knife and trim tails.
  
  Place trout in a greased oblong baking dish.  Place half the lemon
  slices, half the fennel sprigs and some butter inside prepared trout.
  Add wine and top with remaining lemon slices, fennel sprigs and
  butter.
  
  Bake at 350 F. until fish flakes when tested with a fork (12 to 15
  minutes, depending upon size of trout.)  Baste periodically.
  
  Meanwhile, make meuniere butter:  In a small, heavy saucepan, melt
  butter. Cook slowly over low heat, shaking pan vigorously, until
  butter is a light brown nut color.  Add lemon juice, salt, pepper and
  chopped fennel and serve at once, poured over baked trout.
  
  From _Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook_ by Nancy Enright.
  Toronto: James Lorimer & Company, 1985.  Pg. 46.  ISBN 0-88862-788-2.
  Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lamb and Fennel Salad with Hazelnut Dressing
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Side dish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Salt
      2 sl Firm white bread; crusts off
           -- soaked in hot water and
           -- squeezed dry
      1 c  Hazelnuts; toasted & skinned
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  ;Water (up to 3/4 cup)
           Black pepper; to taste
           Spinach or romaine leaves
           -- to line 6 plates
  1 1/2 lb Rare lamb; sliced
      1    Fennel bulb; cut diagonally
           -- in 1/2" pieces
      1    Belgian endive
           -- leaves separated
           -- rinsed and patted dry
      8 oz Montrachet, crumbled, or
           Other soft mild chevre
 
  Mash minced garlic with salt to a paste in a small bowl.  Add bread;
  work in thoroughly until smooth.
  
  Process hazelnuts in a food processor fitted with a steel blade until
  ground.  Add garlic paste; process 5 seconds to combine.  Add lemon
  juice and oil; process to blend.  With machine running, slowly pour
  in enough of the water to thin the dressing to the consistency of
  heavy cream. Season to taste with pepper.
  
  Line 6 salad plates with the spinach leaves.  Place a small shallow
  bowl of hazelnut dressing in the center of each salad. Decoratively
  arrange lamb slices, fennel pieces and endive leaves in a circle
  around the dressing on each plate.  Sprinkle each salad with some
  chevre. Serve immediately.
  
  From _The Silver Palate Good Times Cookbook_ by Julee Rosso and Sheila
  Lukins.  New York: Workman Publishing Company, Inc., 1985.  Pg. 158.
  ISBN 0-89480-831-1.  Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot, Orange and Almond Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit, Dips/spread, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 5 jars
 
      1 lb Dried apricots
      2 oz Split almonds
      3    Oranges
      2    Lemons
  2 1/2 lb Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  Chop the apricots roughly.  Put them into a large bowl, sprinkling
  the fine grated zest of the oranges and the cinnamon between layers.
  Squeeze the juice of the oranges, measure and add enough water to
  make 3 pints in all. Pour the liquids over the fruit; leave to soak
  overnight in a cool place.
  
  Slide the contents of the bowl into a preserving pan and simmer gently
  until the fruit is beautifully tender.  Check the fruit occasionally
  as it cooks and crush it down into the pan with a potato masher.  It
  may need 1 1/4 hours to become really soft.
  
  Warm the sugar.  Add it to the pan together with the juice of the
  lemons and the almonds.  Cook gently until sugar is melted, then
  fast-boil until the saucer test shows that the preserve will set.
  Pot, tie down and label the preserve in the usual way.
  
  From WWiVNet.  Reposted in Home Cooking by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bourbon and Honey Smoke-Roasted Pork Tenderloin
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Bourbon
      3 tb Honey
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      1 tb Minced garlic
  1 1/2 tb Fresh ginger root
           -- peeled and grated
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Thinly sliced onion
      2 tb Fresh sage
           -- coarsely chopped
      2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Salt

MMMMM-------------------------MAIN DISH------------------------------
      3    Pork tenderloins

MMMMM---------------------GRILLING MATERIALS--------------------------
           Charcoal briquettes
      6    Wood chips (up to 8)
           -- preferably fruitwood
 
  Combine all marinade ingredients; blend well.  The marinade for this
  dish can be prepared a day in advance; marinating should go on for 24
  hours.
  
  Lay the pork tenderloins in a ceramic or glass dish and pour marinade
  over them.  Turn the tenderloins several times during the 24 hours
  that they are marinating in the refrigerator.  When ready to cook,
  pat the pork dry.
  
  Preheat charcoal in an outdoor grill and soak the wood chips in water
  for 30 minutes.  Add the chips to the hot coals.   Roast the pork
  evenly for about 40 minutes, until its internal temperature is 165 F.
  If pork is to be eaten hot, allow it to sit on the edge of the grill
  for 10 minutes or so after it is cooked so that the juices can be
  drawn back into the meat.
  
  Good served either hot or cold, accompanied by a green tomato chutney.
  
  From Someplace Special restaurant in McLean, VA.  In _The New
  Carry-Out Cuisine_ by Phyllis Meras with Linda Glick Conway.  Boston:
  Houghton Mifflin Company, 1986.  Pg. 130.  ISBN 0-395-42504-2.  Typed
  for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Watermelon Rind Pickle
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit, Oldies
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      7 lb Watermelon rind; peeled
  2 1/2 qt ;Water
    1/3 c  Salt
  6 1/2 c  Brown sugar
      2 c  Vinegar
      1 c  ;Water
      1 tb Whole cloves
      2    Cinnamon sticks
      2    Lemons
 
  Pare off the outer green from watermelon rind and cut in 1" squares.
  Put in large bowl and pour over them the salt and water mixed.  Let
  soak for three days.  Drain and let stand in fresh water for one hour.
  
  Make a syrup of sugar, vinegar, water and spices.  Cut the lemon
  (rind and all) paper thin.  Put melon and lemon into hot syrup and
  boil until watermelon is clear.  Seal in jars.
  
  From South Union, Ky.  In _The Shaker Cook Book: Not by Bread Alone_
  by Caroline B. Piercy.  New York: Crown Publishers, Inc., 1953.  Pg.
  183. Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 53-5248.  Typed for you
  by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Simmered in Smen
 Categories: Dips/spread, Main dish, Moroccan, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken; quartered*
      2    Chicken livers
    3/4 c  Onion; minced
    1/4 ts Saffron threads; pulverized
           Turmeric; to mix w/saffron
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Parsley; roughly chopped
    1/4 c  ;Water
      2    To 3 tb. smen
      2 tb Fresh sweet butter
    1/2    Preserved lemon
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
 
  *See "Basic Method for Preparing Poultry" recipe.
  
  Place prepared chicken in 5 1/2 qt. casserole with the livers and
  minced onion.  Sprinkle with the spices and 1 tsp. salt.  Toss to
  coat evenly.
  
  Puree parsley in blender or food processor with 1/4 c water.  Add
  half the "parsley water" and all of the smen to the casserole.  Pour
  in 1 cup water; bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer, covered,
  for one hour, adding more water if necessary.  Remove chicken to a
  colander when very tender and keep warm while the sauce simmers one
  full hour.
  
  Heat the 2 tb. sweet butter in a skillet; gently brown the drained
  chicken quarters.  Transfer to a flameproof serving dish, cover, and
  keep warm.
  
  Meanwhile, add the remaining "parsley water" to the sauce in the
  casserole and, by boiling rapidly, uncovered, reduce to 1 1/2 cups.
  Dump the sauce, livers, and odd bits of skin and bits in the blender.
  Whirl until the sauce is smooth.  Pour over the chicken and reheat.
  
  Discard the pulp from the preserved lemon and dice the peel.  Sprinkle
  diced lemon peel over the chicken.  Simmer 5 minutes, taste for
  seasoning, and add additional salt if necessary.  Sprinkle with lemon
  juice and serve at once.
  
  This is a classic dish from Fez.
  
  From _Couscous and Other Good Food from Morocco_ by Paula Wolfert. New
  York: Harper & Row, Publishers, 1987.  Pp. 205-206.  ISBN
  0-06-091396-7. Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KIPPER PATE SLICES WITH CUCUMBER DRESSING
 Categories: Meats, Pastry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    8 x 8 in Jus-rol Puff Pastry
           -Sheet, thawed
           Beaten egg to glaze
      6 oz Kipper pate
      2 tb Single cream
      1 tb Lemon juice
      3 oz Cucumber, grated
      4 tb Fromage frais
      1 tb Single cream
      2 ts Chopped fresh mint
        sm Clove of garlic, crushed
           Lemon slices and cucumber
           -for garnish
 
  Roll out the pastry to form a 25.5cm (l0in) square. Cut iu half then
  cut each piece lengthways to give 12 slices. Brush with beaten egg
  and place on a baking sheet. Bake at 200oC (400oF ) mark 6 for about
  lOmin, or until risen and golden. Meanwhile mix together the pate,
  cream and lemon juice. Season. Combine the remaining ingredients to
  give the cucumber dressing a runny consistency, seasoning to taste.
  Cool pastry on a wire raek, trim and sandwich in pairs with pate.
  Arrange on plates with dressing and garnish with lemon slices and
  cucumber. Serve cold.
  
  Source: Jus-rol: Pastry for today
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mint-Glazed Carrots
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Carrots; sliced thin
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 ts Lemon juice
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
    1/3 c  Chicken broth
           Salt and pepper; to taste
      2 ts Fresh mint; chopped
 
  In a small saucepan, steam carrots over boiling water until just
  tender-crisp.  Drain.
  
  Heat butter in a deep skillet.  Add carrots, lemon juice and sugar.
  Cook over medium heat, shaking the pan until carrots are coated.  Add
  chicken broth and continue cooking slowly until liquid is evaporated
  and carrots are light golden.  Add salt and pepper to taste.  Add
  mint and mix in well. Serve immediately.
  
  From 1993 "Shepherd's Garden Seeds Catalog."  Pg. 13.  Typed for you
  by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Crusted Lamb Chops
 Categories: Fruit, Herbs/spice, Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Loin lamb chops; 1" thick
      1 tb Whole cumin seeds
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 tb Lemon rind; grated
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Orange juice
    1/4 c  Chopped lemon basil or
    1/3 c  Chopped green basil
      2 tb Olive oil

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1    Lemon; sliced
      4    Fresh basil sprigs
 
  Trim and remove excess fat and lightly salt lamb chops.
  
  Toast cumin seeds in a dry skillet over medium heat, shaking the pan
  frequently, just until they become golden and fragrant.  Grind them
  in a spice mill or crush with a mortar and pestle.
  
  In a shallow Pyrex dish or pie plate, combine cumin with garlic,
  lemon rind and juice, orange juice, and basil and oil, mixing well.
  Add the lamb chops, pressing the herb and spice mixture onto both
  sides of the meat.
  
  Marinate at room temperature for several hours or overnight in the
  refrigerator.  Barbecue chops over charcoal, basting occasionally with
  marinade.  Serve garnished with fresh lemon slices and green basil
  sprigs.
  
  From 1994 "Shepherd's Garden Seeds Catalog."  Pg. 59.  Typed for you
  by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mango and Tamarind Chutney
 Categories: Can/preserv, Condiments, Fruit, Relishes
      Yield: 1 batch
 
    1/2 c  Dried tamarind pulp; packed
           -or-
    1/2 c  Fresh lime juice; strained
           + 1/2 cup water
  2 1/2 c  ;Water
      3 lb Mangoes*
      1 c  Onions; in 1/4" dice
      1 c  Golden raisins
      1 c  Dried currants
      4 tb Fresh ginger; minced
           -- or more to taste
      3 lg Garlic cloves; minced fine
      1    Lemon; grated zest of
      2 c  Light brown sugar; packed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Mustard seed
      1 tb Salt
      2 ts Dried red pepper; crushed*
      2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/2 ts Turmeric
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
           -- or more to taste
  1 1/2 c  Distilled white vinegar
 
  *Mangoes can be unripe, half-ripe or part unripe and part ripe. Using
  part or all almost-ripe fruit will yield a chutney with a softer
  texture. If you like jammy chutney, cut the fruit into small bits;
  for a chunky product, use 1/2" or larger cubes and stop cooking the
  mixture as soon as the fruit pieces are translucent.
  
  **In place of the crushed dried red pepper, can substitute 2 dried hot
  peppers (each 2 1/2 to 3" long) which have been seeded and crumbled,
  or 1 tb. finely minced red or green fresh hot peppers.  Increase any
  of these if you are sure you want a hotter chutney.
  
  Crumble tamarind into a small bowl and stir in 1 1/2 cups of the
  water; let tamarind soak for at least an hour, meanwhile preparing
  the remaining ingredients.  Or substitute the fresh lime juice plus
  1/2 cup of water at this point.
  
  Peel and dice the mangoes, cutting them into small pieces for a
  jamlike chutney, into 1/2" or larger dice for a chunky mixture. Place
  the pieces in a preserving pan.  Add the onions, raisins, currants,
  ginger, garlic, lemon zest, brown and granulated sugars, mustard
  seed, salt, crushed hot red pepper, cinnamon, turmeric, cloves,
  ground red pepper, white vinegar and the remaining 1 cup water; stir
  the mixture and let it rest until the tamarind "juice" is ready, or
  for up to several hours, if that is convenient.
  
  When the tamarind pulp is very soft, strain the liquid through a
  sieve, pressing it to remove all possible liquid and any pulp that
  will pass through.  Discard the pulp remaining in the sieve.  Add the
  liquid to the chutney mixture.
  
  Set the pan over medium heat and bring the ingredients to a boil.
  Lower the heat so the mixture simmers and cook it, uncovered,
  stirring often, until the mango and onion pieces are translucent and
  the chutney has thickened to the consistency of preserves, 1 to 2
  hours depending on the firmness of the fruit.  (The chutney will
  thicken further in the jar, so don't reduce it too much.)  If the
  chutney threatens to stick before the mango pieces are translucent,
  add a little water.
  
  Remove chutney from the heat, cool a sample, and taste it for
  tartness, sweetness, and degree of hotness.  (The overall flavor is
  elusive at this point, but these factors can be judged.)  If you
  wish, add a little more vinegar, sugar or ground hot red pepper.
  
  Reheat the chutney to boiling and ladle it into hot, clean pint or
  half-pint canning jars, leaving 1/4" of headspace.  Seal the jars;
  process for 15 minutes (for either size jar) in a boiling-water bath.
  Cool, label, and store the jars for a least a month so that its many
  flavors can blend and balance.  This will keep for at least a year in
  a cool pantry.
  
  Yield: 6 to 7 cups.
  
  From _Fancy Pantry_ by Helen Witty.  New York: Workman Publishing
  Company, Inc., 1986.  Pp. 56-58.  ISBN 0-89480-037-X.  Typed for you
  by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Salmon with Tricolored Peppercorn Sauce
 Categories: Fish, Fruit, Herbs/spice, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2    Fresh lemon
           Salmon steaks or fillets
           -- (to serve 4)
    1/3    Stick butter*
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Tricolored peppercorns
           -- finely crushed
      1 tb Fresh dill; finely chopped
 
  *No substitutions.
  
  Squeeze juice from lemon half over salmon and barbecue or broil. Don't
  overcook.
  
  Melt butter; mix in mustard and lemon juice.  When salmon is done,
  sprinkle evenly with crushed peppercorns, add dill, and drizzle
  melted butter sauce over all.  Serve immediately.
  
  From 1994 "Shepherd's Garden Seeds Catalog."  Pg. 84.  Typed for you
  by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PUFF-TOP BISQUE
 Categories: Seafood, Soup/stew
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2    5x5 in Jus-rol Puff Pastry,
           -Sheets, thawed
      4 oz Courgettes
      2 oz Shelled prawns, chopped
      4    Spring onions
 10 1/3 oz Can condensed cream of
           -smoked salmon or crab
           -bisque soup
      6 tb Single cream or milk
           Lemon juice
           Milk to glaze
 
  Grate the courgettes, add to the prawns and divide between two
  ovenproof soup cups that will take 300ml (1/2 pint) of liquid. Finely
  slice the onions, stir into the soup with the cream and enough lemon
  juice to sharpen. Adjust seasoning. Damp edge of soup cups then lay a
  sheet of pastry over each cup. Press edges to seal. Trim excess
  pastry then knock up and flute. Brush with milk and bake at 220C
  (425F) mark 7 for about 15min. Serve at once.
  
  Source: Jus-Rol: Pastry for Today
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Basil Chicken
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lg Reynolds oven bag
      1 tb Flour
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      4    Chicken breast halves
           -- bone in
      2 ts Basil leaves
      1 ts Seasoned salt
      1 sm Onion; sliced
           -- separated into rings
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.
  
  Shake flour in oven bag; place in 13x9x2" baking pan.  Add lemon
  juice to bag.  Squeeze bag to blend ingredients.  Remove skin from
  chicken, if desired.  Place chicken in bag.  Turn bag to coat chicken
  with sauce. Arrange chicken in an even layer; sprinkle with basil and
  seasoned salt. Place sliced onion over chicken.  Close bag with nylon
  tie; cut 6 half-inch slits in top.  Bake until chicken is tender, 30
  to 35 minutes. Let stand in bag 5 minutes.
  
  In brochure that came with package of Reynolds large (19x23.5") oven
  bags. Richmond, VA: Consumer Products Division/Reynolds Metals
  Company, 1988. Typed for you by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Portabellas
 Categories: Appetizers, Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 ea Whole portabella mushrooms
           -- cleaned, stems removed

MMMMM------------------------VINAIGRETTE-----------------------------
    1/4 c  Vinegar
    3/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Balsamic vinegar
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
  Prepare vinaigrette:  Combine all vinaigrette ingredients in a lidded
  jar. Shake well just before using.
  
  Lay clean mushrooms in a shallow baking dish and pour 1/2 cup of
  vinaigrette over it.
  
  Cover and marinate for up to 24 hours, turning the mushrooms once.
  When ready to cook, drain dressing; reserve for another purpose.
  
  TO GRILL: Place on grill over warm coals for 5 to 10 minutes, turning
  once.
  
  TO BROIL: Place on a baking sheet and set under broiler for 5 to 8
  minutes.
  
  TO BAKE: Place baking dish in preheated 425 F oven for about 15
  minutes.
  
  NOTE: You may substitute sliced portabellas.  However, you may need to
  grill them on a piece of foil to avoid breakage.  Poke holes in the
  foil to assure a good smoky flavor.
  
  Kyra Effren, "The Dallas Morning News"  Posted by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chipotle-Ancho Chili Pesto
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 ea Dried ancho chilies
           -=OR=- pasilla chilies
      1 lg Red bell pepper
      2 ea Canned chipotle chilies
           -- (in adobo sauce)
           -- rinsed & seeded
    1/3 c  Pine nuts
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 ea Garlic cloves
    1/4 c  Olive oil (or more)
 
  If you prefer a milder sauce, use only one chipotle chili in this
  recipe; if you like your food super spicy, use two.
  
  Makes about 1-1/3 cups
  
  Remove stems and seeds from ancho chilies.  Place chilies in large
  bowl. Cover with boiling water.  Let stand until soft, about 30
  minutes. Drain, reserving 1 tablespoon soaking liquid.
  
  Roast bell pepper over gas flame or in broiler until blackened on all
  sides.  Seal in paper bag and let stand 15 minutes.  Peel, stem and
  seed pepper.
  
  In processor, blend ancho chilies, 1 tablespoon soaking liquid, bell
  pepper, chipotles, pine nuts, fresh lemon juice and garlic until
  almost smooth.  With machine running, gradually add 1/4 cup olive
  oil; process until smooth.  If pesto is dry, mix in more oil by
  spoonfuls. Season with salt.  (Can be made ahead.  Press plastic wrap
  onto surface of pesto. Cover and refrigerate up to 2 days or freeze
  up to 1 week. Bring to room temperature before using.)
  
  Barbara Karoff, in "Bon Appetit" August, 1994  Posted by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mediterranean Style Mushrooms
 Categories: Appetizers, Snacks, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 oz Tomatoes, skinned, seeded &
           -- finely chopped
      1 oz Celery, cut in half
      1 ea Garlic clove, crushed
      8 oz Button mushrooms, wiped
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ea Sprig of parsley
      1 ea Bay leaf
    1/4 pt Water
    1/4 ts Salt
           Pepper, to taste
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  Place tomatoes, celery, garlic, oil, lemon juice, parsley sprig,
  bayleaf, water, salt & pepper in a pan.  Bring to a boil & simmer,
  uncovered, for 5 minutes.
  
  Add the mushrooms & simmer, uncovered, for a further 5 minutes.
  Remove the celery, parsley & bay leaf.
  
  Using a slotted spoon, divide the mushrooms between 4 small plates.
  Boil the liquid rapidly until it has been reduced by half, about 5
  minutes. Spoon over the mushrooms & sprinkle with parsley.
  
  Elizabeth Brand, "Vegetables"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa Di Spinaci Con Uova
 Categories: Appetizers, Salsa/sauce, Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    120 ml Olive oil
     50 ml Lemon juice
      2 tb Capers
    250 g  Spinach leaves, torn roughly
      6 ea Lettuce leaves, torn roughly
           Salt & pepper
           Fresh pasta of your choice
           Sprigs continental parsley
 
  Combine oil, lemon juice, capers,     spinach & lettuce in a food
  processor. Blend until smooth.  Season well with salt & pepper.
  
  Cook the pasta until *al dente*.  Heat spinach puree slightly, being
  careful not to overcook or burn.  Add to well drained pasta & combine.
  Garnish with parsley.
  
  Adapted from Sue Lloyd & Jacquie Keys, "A Passion for Pasta".  Posted
  by Sherree Johansson.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEGAN: ALOO RASDAR
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 3 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
      6 lg Potatoes, cut into about
           -6 to 8 chunks each.
      2 c  Fresh or frozen  green peas,
           -the smaller the better
      3 md Sized tomatoes, chopped
      2 md Sized onions, diced
      2    Green chili peppers, chopped

MMMMM--------------------SPICES & FLAVOURINGS-------------------------
    1/2 ts Turmeric powder
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper powder
      1 ts Garam masala powder
      1    Clove garlic
           A few stalks of cilantro
           -and assorted herbs
           Lemon concentrate
           Salt

MMMMM---------------------------OTHERS--------------------------------
      1 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/2 c  Water
 
  1. Pressure cook potato chunks and peas for about 6 minutes. 2. Dice
  onions, chop ginger, green chili and garlic. 3. Heat a little oil, add
  onions and saute till golden.  Add chopped ginger, chopped garlic and
  chopped green chili now and saute'. 4. Add turmeric powder, cayenne
  pepper powder and garam masala powder. Stir continuously until
  thoroughly mixed. 5. Add chopped tomatoes.  Saute until tomato pieces
  are wilted. 6. Add potatoes, peas from pressure cooker.  Top with
  1-and-1/2 cups of water. Add salt according to your taste.  Simmer on
  low heat until gravy thickens slightly. 7. Garnish with freshly
  chopped cilantro, squeeze a few drops of lemon juice and serve hot.
  
  NOTES: 1. This is a very simple thing, easy to make. 2. Total time
  required is under 30 minutes.
  
  I like this when it is accompanied by some cool cucumber-yogurt
  raita, or with a salad of fresh sliced onions, tomatoes and cucumber
  slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Fritters (Pakora)
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetarian, Indian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Chickpea flour (besan)
    1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    3/4 ts Cream of tartar
    1/4 ts Sea salt
      1 ts Cumin powder
      1 ts Coriander powder
      1 ts Tumeric
    1/2 ts Asafetida (optional)
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
  1 1/4 c  Cold water
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Oil, for frying
      1 c  Sliced potatoes (1/4" thick)
      1 c  Cauliflower florets
      1 c  Chopped bell pepper
 
  Blend flours, baking soda, cream of tartar, salt and spices.
  
  Gradually whisk in water and lemon juice to make a smooth batter the
  consistency of heavy cream.  Set aside.
  
  Heat about 3" oil in a large skillet or deep fryer.
  
  Dip vegetables in batter to coat.  Immerse in hot oil, turning to cook
  evenly, until golden brown, about 5 minutes.  Remove with a slotted
  spoon and drain on absorbent paper.
  
  Cover and place in a warm oven while cooking remaining pakoras.
  
  Per serving: 186 cal, 5 g prot, 95 mg sod, 25 g carb, 8 g fat, 0 mg
  chol, 21 mg calcium
  
  Source: Vegetarian Gourmet, Autumn 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LACTO: Cranberry Cheese Bars
 Categories: Fruit, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Flour (unbleached white)
  1 1/2 c  Oats
    3/4 c  Brown sugar, packed
      1 tb Brown sugar, packed
      1 c  Butter, softened
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
     14 oz Sweetened condensed milk
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Cornstarch
     16 oz Whole berry cranberry sauce
 
  Preheat oven to 350.  In large bowl, combine flour, oats, 3/4 c of
  sugar, and butter;  mix until crumbly.  Reserving 1 1/2 c of the
  crumb mixture, press remainder firmly on bottom of greased 9x13" pan.
  Bake for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, in small bowl, beat cheese until
  fluffy. Gradually beat in sweetened condensed milk until smooth; stir
  in lemon juice. Spread evenly over prepared crust.  In another small
  bowl, combine remaining 1 T sugar and cornstarch;  stir in cranberry
  sauce. Spoon evenly over cheese layer. Top with reserved crumb
  mixture. Bake 40 min or until golden. Cool. Chill. Store covered in
  frig. Makes 24 bars.
  
  ~- Gina Pasquale Email: pasquale@lanl.gov
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Cashew Rice (Nibu Daar Pullao)
 Categories: Side dish, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Basmati rice (uncooked)
      1 ts Black mustard seeds
      2 tb Canola oil
    1/2 ts Split urad dal
    1/2 c  Cashew pieces
      2 c  Water or vegetable broth
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 ts Sea salt
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
 
  Place rice in a strainer and rinse with cool water until water runs
  clear. Set aside.
  
  In a large saucepan, saute mustard seeds in oil until they begin to
  pop.
  
  Add urad dal and saute until dal turns golden brown, about 2 minutes.
  
  Add rice and cashews.  Saute for 2 minutes over medium heat.
  
  Stir in water, lemon juice and salt.
  
  Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat, cover and simmer for 15 minutes.  (Do
  not remove cover while cooking.)  Remove from heat and let sit for 5
  minutes.
  
  Fluff with a fork, garnish with cilantro and serve.
  
  Per serving: 248 cal, 6 g prot, 313 mg sod, 30 g carb, 12 g fat, 0 mg
  chol, 63 mg calcium
  
  Source: Vegetarian Gourmet, Autumn 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lima Bean and Fennel Stew
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Dried lima beans
           -Water for soaking, plus
      4 c  Water for cooking
      3 md Potatoes
      2 lg Carrots
      1 lg Onion; diced
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts Fennel seed
    1/2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Marjoram
      2    Garlic cloves
           -- finely chopped
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      4 oz Mushrooms; thinly sliced
      1 sm Bulb fennel; diced
      1    Bay leaf
      1 tb Tamari
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Pick over and wash lima beans, and soak them in water to cover at
  least 6 hours or overnight.  Drain off the soaking water and place
  the limas in a large stewpot with fresh water.  Bring to a boil, then
  lower the heat and simmer gently for 1 hour.
  
  Scrub the potatoes and carrots.  Cut the potatoes in 1/2-inch dice.
  Cut the carrots in half lengthwise, then crosswise into 1/4-inch
  slices. Add the potatoes and carrots to the limas.  While they are
  cooking, saute the onion in 1 tablespoon of oil until golden brown.
  
  Crush the fennel seed lightly in a mortar and add it along with the
  thyme, marjoram, garlic, and 2 tablespoons of water to the onion.
  Cook over low heat for 3 minutes to blend the flavors.  Add the wine
  and simmer until the liquid is reduced a little. Scrape the onion
  mixture into the bean mixture and return the skillet to the burner.
  Saute the mushrooms in the remaining tablespoon oil until they turn
  golden around the edges. Add the mushrooms to the stew, adding more
  water if necessary to keep the stew from sticking.
  
  Add the diced fennel bulb, bay leaf, and tamari, and simmer about 10
  minutes or until the fennel bulb is just tender.  Add the lemon and
  serve immediately.
  
  Source: Jennifer Stein Barker, Canyon City Oregon The Herbal
  Companion, October/November 1993 Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Sauce With Lemon And Garlic
 Categories: Vegetarian, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Tomatoes -- stewed
    1/4 c  Basil
      2 tb Parmesan cheese
    1/2 ts Black pepper
 
  In a skillet, heat oil over medium heat and add garlic until tender.
  Remove from heat and pour wine. Return it to the heat. Cook another 1
  to 2 minutes, until wine has been reduced by half. Stir in lemon
  juice and tomatoes, basil, Parmesan cheese, and black pepper.  Serve
  over cooked pasta.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Vegetable Pakoras with Mango Relish
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 sm Eggplant
           -- cut into 1/4-inch slices
      1 ts Salt
      2 md Zucchini
           -- cut into 1-inch slices
     12    Cauliflower florets
      6 lg Button mushrooms
           -- wiped and cut in half
  1 1/3 c  Chick-pea flour
           -OR- all-purpose flour
      1 tb Chopped fresh coriander
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Curry powder
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
    3/4 c  -Ice water, more if needed
           Vegetable oil
           -- for deep-frying

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Lemon wedges
           Coriander or parsley

MMMMM------------------------MANGO RELISH-----------------------------
    1/4 c  Medium-sweet sherry
    1/4 c  -Water
    1/4 c  2hite wine vinegar
      2 tb Sugar
      1    Cinnamon stick
      1    Star anise
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pn Ground mace
      1    Mango
           -- peeled, pitted and diced
      1 sm Red bell pepper
           -- seeded and diced
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Place the eggplant in a colander, sprinkle with the salt, and let
  drain while preparing the other vegetables.
  
  Blanch the zucchini and cauliflower florets separately for 2 minutes
  in boiling water.  Drain, refresh under cold water, and dry well.
  Rinse the eggplant and pat dry.
  
  Combine the flour, coriander, salt, and curry powder in a large bowl.
  Gradually beat in the oil, lemon juice, and water until the batter is
  the consistency of heavy cream.  Alternatively, place all the
  ingredients - except the water - in a food processor, and with the
  motor running, pour the water through the funnel until you have the
  right consistency.
  
  Heat 4 inches of oil in a deep, heavy-bottomed saucepan to 350
  degrees F.
  
  Lightly whisk the batter and dip the vegetables in batches of 5 to 6,
  then slip them carefully into the hot oil.  Fry the pakoras for 2 to
  3 minutes on each side, turning them with a slotted spoon.  Remove
  from the pan, drain on paper towels, and keep warm in a moderate oven
  while you cook the remaining pakoras.  Allow the oil to come back to
  350 degrees F between batches.
  
  When all the vegetables are ready, garnish with lemon wedges and
  coriander or parsley and serve at once with the mango relish.
  
  MANGO RELISH:  Place the sherry, water, vinegar, sugar, cinnamon, star
  anise, salt, and mace in a small, heavy-bottomed saucepan.  Bring to
  a boil and simmer over medium heat for 5 minutes.  Add the mango,
  bell pepper, and lemon juice; lower the heat and simmer for 5 minutes
  more. Remove from the heat and let cool completely.  Spoon into a
  screw top jar and refrigerate until required.
  
  * Source: The Inspired Vegetarian, by Louise Pickford * Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Mushroom Lasagna I
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu
      1 ts Salt
      4 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Vegetable oil
  2 1/2 tb Tahini
      1 tb Light miso
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2 lg Garlic cloves, pressed
           Black pepper to taste
      1 ts Nutmeg
      2 ts Tarragon
      2 ts Dill
      8 oz Mushrooms
      8 oz Spinach
    1/2 c  Fresh parsley
      4 tb Breadcrumbs, toasted
    1/2 c  Walnuts
      4 c  Tomato sauce
      9    Lasagna noodles, al dente
 
  Blend tofu in processor.  Add salt, lemon juice, vegetable oil,
  tahini & miso.  Blend till thoroughly smooth.  Set aside.
  
  Heat olive oil.  Add onion & saute till translucent.  Add garlic,
  pepper, nutmeg, tarragon, dill & mushrooms.  Saute for several
  minutes. Stir in chopped spinach & parsley.  Saute very briefly.
  Remove from heat. Add the saute to tofu mixture.  Blend briefly.  Be
  sure to maintain the texture.
  
  Pre-heat oven to 350F.  Lightly oil the bottom & sides of a baking
  dish. Add 2 to 3 tb of breadcrumbs & ensure that the dish is evenly
  coated. Sprinkle 1/3 of walnuts on bottom of dish, followed by 1/4 of
  the tomato sauce.  Lay 3 noodles on top of the sauce & evenly spread
  half the tofu mixture on the noodles.  Repeat a second layer.  Then
  top with remaining walnuts, noodles & sauce. Sprinkle the rest of the
  breadcrumbs on top,
  
  Cover & bake for 30 minutes.  Uncover & bake another 10 minutes. Cool
  for 20 to 30 minutes before slicing.
  
  Madhur Jaffrey, "The World of the East Cookbook"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Artichokes in Olive Oil
 Categories: Main dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 lg Artichokes
           Water
      4    Lemons
      2 tb Flour
      1 lb Fresh green fava beans
  1 1/4 c  Olive oil
      3    Finely chopped onions
           Salt
    1/2 c  Rice
      2 ts Sugar
    3/4 c  Chopped fresh dill
           Lemon wedges for garnish
 
  Mix juice of 2 lemons & the flour in a large bowl.  Add 2 qt water &
  mix thoroughly.  Wash artichokes, bend back & snap off outer leaves.
  Leave only the tender inner leaves.  Slice off these leaves just
  above the heart & scoop out the fuzzy choke & remaining pinkish
  leaves. Cut off the stem & peel around the base with a vegetable
  peeler until you reach the whitish tender part.  As you trim each
  artichoke, take a lemon half, sprinkle it with salt & rub it all
  around & inside the base to prevent discoloration. Then drop each
  artichoke into the lemon water mixture.
  
  Remove jackets of fava beans.  Sprinkle beans with salt & let stand
  for 5 minutes.  Remove skins, rinse & reserve.
  
  Heat 1 c olive oil in skillet.  Add onions, 1/2 ts salt & saute for 5
  minutes.  Stir in fava beans & rice.  Cook for 5 minutes, stirring, &
  add 1/2 c water.  Cover & cook for 5 minutes till the water has been
  absorbed. Stir in the dill, salt & remove from heat.  Let stand
  covered for 15 minutes.
  
  Remove artichokes from water bath.  Reserve 4 1/2 c liquid.  Stuff
  centre cavity of artichokes with the rice.  Place each one on a sheet
  of wax paper, sprinkle with a little water & wrap as you would a
  package. Arrange them stem sides down in a heavy shallow pan.  Add 1
  1/2 c reserved liquid, 1/4 c olive oil, juice of 1/2 lemon & sugar.
  Cover & cook over medium heat for 10 minutes.  Reduce heat to low &
  simmer for 1 hour. The liquid will be continually absorbed so add
  more as needed. When the artichokes are tender, let them cool, Unwrap
  them & arrange them on a serving platter. Serve cold with garnish as
  part of a buffet.
  
  Ayla Esen Algar, "The Complete Book of Turkish Cooking"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baba Gannouj I
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6 lg Eggplants
      2    Lemons, juiced
      2 tb Tahini
           Salt
      1 lg Garlic clove
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley, fresh
      2 tb Olive oil
 
  Cook eggplants whole on all sides, turning as necessary til lthey are
  soft throughout & the skin is charred.  Set aside to cool for 1 hour.
  
  Peel eggplants & discard skin.  In a mixing bowl, add lemon juice &
  tahini. Blend well.  Add salt to taste.
  
  Finely chop the garlic clove & add to mashed eggplant.  Stir well &
  chill. To serve, place in a flat serving dish & garnish with parsley.
  Pour olive oil the top.
  
  Joel Rapp, "Mother Earth's Vegetarian Feasts"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Florentine
 Categories: Fruit, Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Cooking apples, prepared
           -weight
      4 oz Sugar
           Grated zest of 1 large lemon
     10 fl Ale
        pn Grated nutmeg
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
      2    Cloves
 
  Use a very deep pie dish, approximately 8 inches in diameter. Heat
  the ale and 1 ounce of the sugar, stirring to dissolve, remove from
  heat and add the cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon; leave to infuse for 2
  hours. Wipe quarter and core the apples and place in the pie dish.
  Sprinkle over the 3 ounces sugar and grated lemon zest. Pour over the
  ale infusion. Roll out a good thickness of puff pastry to make a lid.
  Moisten the edge of the dish to get a good seal. Crimp edges and
  decorate as a desired. Bake in a preheated oven, 400F, Gas 6, 200C
  for 30 minutes, then reduce to 350F, Gas 4, 180C for a further 30
  minutes.
  
  Allow to cool a little beefore serving with custard, or cream, or
  greek yoghurt, or ice cream or clotted cream!
  
  P.S. Be careful not to eat the cloves.
  
  Source: Lakeland Plastics
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Octopus with Pepper Salad
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Octopus, small
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Oregano or marjoram, dried
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
      1 md Bell pepper, green
      1 md Bell pepper, red
      1 md Bell pepper, yellow

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
      1 tb Parsley; finely chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
           Pepper
 
  Cut octopus into strips or leave whole if small enough.  Wash well and
  place in a glass bowl.  Add oil, lemon juice, herbs and garlic. Cover
  and place in refrigerator for 24 hours stirring occasionally. Cut
  capsicums into four lengthways, remove seeds and white membrane.
  Brush outer skin with oil and place skin down on hot barbecue until
  skins are well blistered, rub skins off with a towel.  Arrange on
  plates, alternating colours.  Drizzle with half of the dressing and
  set aside. Heat barbecue to medium heat.  Place Octopus on the
  barbecue plate and cook for 15-20 minutes, turning frequently and
  splashing on a little marinade as they cook.  Remove and pile into
  the centre of the pepper salad. Pour over remaining dressing and
  serve with fresh garden salad.
  
  found on rec.food.recipes Stephanie da Silva (arielle@taronga.com),
  moderator
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oktapodi Toursi (Pickled Octopus)
 Categories: Seafood, Pickles
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 1/4 lb Young octopus
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Red wine vinegar
      4    Garlic clove
           Salt; to taste
           Black pepper; to taste
      1 ts Dried thyme
           Lemon wedges, to serve
 
  Prepare and wash the octopus (as in Octopus in Red Wine).  Place the
  head and tentacles in a pan with 6-8tbsp water, cover and simmer for
  60 to 75 minutes until it is tender.  Test it with a skewer.  Drain
  off any remaining liquid and set aside to cool.
  
  Cut the flesh into 1/2" strips and pack them loosely into a
  screw-topped jar.  Mix enough oil and vinegar to fill the jar - the
  exact amount will depend on the relative volumes of the seafood and
  the container - stir in the garlic and season with salt and pepper.
  If you are using dried thyme, mix it with the liquid at this stage.
  Pour it over the octopus, making sure that every last piece is
  completely immersed. If you are using thyme stalks, push them into
  the jar.
  
  Cover the jar and set it aside for at least 4-5 days before using.  To
  serve, drain the octopus and serve it on small individual plates or
  saucers with the lemon wedges.
  
  Cubes of at least one-day old bread, speared on cocktail sticks, are
  the usual accompaniment.
  
  A Taste Of The Greek Islands by Pamela Westland found on
  rec.food.recipes Stephanie da Silva (arielle@taronga.com), moderator
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Lentils with Peppers and Tomatoes
 Categories: Vegetables, Middle east
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------JUDI M. PHELPS----------------------------
    3/4 lb Brown or green lentils;
           -washed and picked over
           -(approximately 2 cups)
      6 c  ;water
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      2 cl Garlic; minced or put
           -through a garlic press
      1    Green pepper; seeded and
           -chopped
      2    Hot chili peppers; seeded
           -and finely chopped
  1 1/2 lb Fresh tomatoes; seeded and
           -finely chopped OR
  1 1/2 lb Canned tomatoes; drain juice
           Freshly ground pepper
      3 tb To 4 T cilantro; chopped
           Juice of 1/2 lemon;
           -optional
 
  Combine the lentils, water, and bay leaf in a large heavy-bottomed
  saucepan and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat, cover, and simmer 30 to
  40 minutes, until the lentils are tender.  Add salt to taste.  Drain
  and retain some of the cooking liquid.
  
  Heat the oil in a large heavy-bottomed skillet or casserole and add
  the onion and garlic.  Saute over medium-low heat until the onion is
  tender and beginning to color.  Add the green pepper and chili
  peppers and saute another 5-10 minutes until the pepper is tender and
  add the tomatoes and drained lentils.  Add a little bit of cooking
  liquid from the lentils if the mixture seems dry.  Simmer over
  medium-low heat for 15 minutes. Season to taste with more salt and
  pepper, stir in the cilantro and lemon juice if desired, and serve,
  or allow to cool and serve chilled.
  
  This dish will keep for 3-5 days in the refrigerator.  Serves 6-8.
  
  Per portion:  189 calories, fat 2 g, sodium 12 mg, protein 13 g,
  carbohydrate 31 g, cholesterol 0.  Source:  Mediterranean Light by
  Martha Rose Shulman.
  
  Shared and MM by Judi M. Phelps, Moderator, alt.creative-cook and
  alt.creative-cooking conferences.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pear Salsa
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Fruit, Condiments
      Yield: 5 cups
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Green pepper, chopped fine
      1 lg Garlic clove, chopped fine
      2 tb Finely chopped parsley
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Chopped fresh oregano OR
      1 ts Dried oregano
      1 tb Chopped fresh basil OR
      1 ts Dried basil
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
      2 md Tomatoes, seeded and chopped
           Coarse
      2    To 3 pears, peeled & chopped
 
    Heat oil in medium  frypan. Saute onion until tender, about 3 to 4
  minutes. Add green pepper, garlic, parsley, lemon juice, salt,
  oregano, basil and Tobasco sauce; cook 2 minutes. Remove frypan from
  heat and stir in tomatoes and pears. Cover and refrigerate.
   Make 5 cups. Source: The Vancouver Sun Sept 21/94
  
  From the collection of Karen Deck
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Halibut with Orange
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 oz Plain Flour
      4    Halibut Steaks, 4-6oz each
      1 oz Butter
      1 tb Cooking Oil
      6 fl Fresh Orange Juice
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
 
  Mix the flour and nutmeg. Dust the fish with it. In a large frying
  pan, big enough to take all the steaks, heat the butter and oil.
  Saute the steaks gently on both sides for 3 to 4 minutes. Turn up the
  heat, add the orange, Lemon juice and worcester sauce and bring to a
  rapid boil, spooning sauce all the time over the fish. It will
  thicken and glaze in 1 or 2 minutes. The fish will be tender and
  succulent. Serve at once with Tagliatelle or new potatoes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Artichoke Hearts and Potatoes Cooked in Oil and Lemon
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Whole fennel seeds
      1 ts Whole black peppercorns
      2 ts Whole coriander seeds
      2    Whole bay leaves
      4    Garlic cloves; peeled,
           -- and lightly mashed
      3 tb Lemon juice; plus...
      1    Whole lemon
    1/2 c  Olive oil
  1 1/2 ts Salt; or to taste
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1    Boiling potato (about 8 oz.)
      1 sm Onion
 
  Tie up the fennel, peppercorns, coriander seeds, bay leaves, and
  garlic in a cheesecloth bundle and drop into a 2-1/2 quart pot.  Add
  2 cups water and bring to a boil.  Cover, turn heat to low and simmer
  20 minutes. Turn off the heat and remove the cheesecloth bundle,
  squeezing out as much liquid as possible.  Add the lemon juice, olive
  oil, salt, and sugar. Mix and set aside.
  
  Halve the lemon.  Cut off the long artichoke stems, if there are any.
  1. Starting near the stem end, press back the artichoke leaves, one
  by one, and then snap them off.  Keep doing this until you have gone
  past the bowl part of the artichoke that harbors the heat and have
  reached the paler inner leaves.  Using a sharp knife (a serrated one
  is particularly good), cut off the remaining leafy area and discard
  it. Immediately rub all cut sections with a lemon half.  2. Scoop
  away the "choke" in the center of the artichoke with a grapefruit
  spoon. Squeeze a little lemon juice into this area and rub it in. 3.
  Using a sharp paring knife, trim the outside of the artichoke bowl so
  there are no more dark green sections left and the bowl gets a smooth
  appearance. Rub these newly cut sections with lemon. Cut each
  artichoke heart into four, again rubbing cut sections with lemon. Cut
  and prepare the remaining artichokes the same way.
  
  Peel the potato and cut into sections that seem roughly the same size
  as the pieces of artichoke heart.
  
  Peel the onion and cut it into eight sections.
  
  Put the artichoke hearts, potatoes, and onion into prepared liquid and
  bring to a boil.  Cover, lower heat and simmer for about 12 minutes.
  Remove a piece of potato and a piece of artichoke.  Cut off sections
  of each and taste for doneness and balance of salt and lemon.  You
  may add more of either seasoning at this time if you wish.  Cover and
  simmer another 3 to 7 minutes or until vegetables are tender. Uncover
  and cool the vegetables in the liquid.  You may refrigerate the
  contents of the pot if you wish.
  
  When serving, remove the cool (or cold) vegetables with a slotted
  spoon. Do not serve the liquid.
  
  Source: Madhur Jaffrey's World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Turkey Breast with Rosemary and Garlic
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Holiday
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Skinless turkey breast, bone
           In, about 3 lbs
      2    Garlic cloves; cut into
           Slivers
    1/2 ts Dried rosemary     OR
           Tiny sprigs fresh rosemary
      3 tb Honey
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Salt to taste
 
    Trim any fat from turkey. Make small slits in top of breast and
  insert garlic slivers and rosemary. (If you don't have any fresh
  rosemary, add dried to the honey mixture.)
    In small bowl, combine honey, mustard, oil, lemon juice and pepper.
  Brush all over turkey breast. Sprinkle with salt.
    Place trukey in baking dish, meaty side up. Roast at 350 F for 45
  to 60 minutes, depending on size of breast. Baste every 10 to 15
  minutes until done. To carve, slice meat off bone on diagonal.
  Origin: Simply HeartSmart Cooking by Bonnie Stern
  
  Source: The Vancouver Sun  Oct 5/94
  
  From the collection of Karen Deck
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Turkey
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Main dish, Poultry, Rice
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/2 c  Brown rice vinegar
      2 ts Molasses
      2 tb Onion; grated
      4    To 6 lb. turkey breast
           -- cut in 1" cubes
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 c  White grape juice
    1/2 c  ;Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Freshly grated ginger
      8 oz Dried apricots; slivered
      2 tb Minced fresh cilantro
 
  Combine brown rice vinegar, molasses, and grated onion.  Add turkey
  cubes; toss to coat turkey with marinade.  Refrigerate for several
  hours or overnight.  Drain turkey, reserving marinade.
  
  Add oil to heavy nonstick skillet, set on medium heat, and brown a few
  turkey cubes and the garlic at a time (if you crowd the pan, the meat
  will steam, not brown).
  
  Put browned turkey in a large casserole.  Combine reserved marinade,
  white grape juice, water, lemon juice, and grated ginger; pour over
  turkey. Stir in apricot slivers and cover.
  
  Bake at 325 F. for 30 minutes.  Turkey should be tender.  Stir in
  cilantro.
  
  Serve over steamed rice.
  
  Yield:  10 to 12 servings.
  
  From Sage Cottage Herb Garden Cookbook by Dorry Baird Norris.
  Chester, CT: The Globe Pequot Press, 1991.  Pp. 118-119.  ISBN
  0-87106-239-9. Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Roasted with Basil, Garlic Butter and Lemon
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Fresh whole basil leaves
      6    To 8 whole basil leaves
      1    Garlic clove, peeled
           -- finely chopped
      3 tb Unsalted butter; room temp.
      2    To 3 lb. roasting chicken
      1    Whole lemon
           Fresh ground pepper
 
  Wash & pat dry the basil, reserving large whole leaves for the
  roasting pan and for the chicken cavity.
  
  Mince remaining basil.  In a small bowl, with a wooden mallet or
  spoon (or using a mortar and pestle), blend minced basil, garlic and
  butter. Chill until slightly firm (this can be prepared ahead of time
  and refrigerated or frozen).  Have chicken at room temperature. Rinse
  thoroughly and pat dry with paper towel.
  
  With fingers, gently separate skin from meat, beginning at neck and
  continuing down over breast.  Separate skin through to the meaty
  portion of the drumsticks.  Place small bits of chilled basil butter
  between breast and leg meat and skin, being careful not to tear skin.
  
  Halve lemon, placing one piece in cavity of bird, along with 3 or 4
  whole basil leaves.  Truss chicken with string to secure wings and
  legs.
  
  Place remaining basil on bottom of roasting pan; set chicken,
  breast-side up, over top.  Drizzle with juice of remaining half lemon
  and sprinkle with pepper to taste.
  
  Roast in a preheated 375 F. oven for 25 minutes.  Reduce heat to 350
  degrees and roast another 30 to 35 minutes or until drumsticks move
  easily in their sockets.  During this cooking period, baste
  frequently with pan juices.  Let chicken stand 10 minutes before
  carving. Serve with defatted pan juices.
  
  The author writes:  "If you have any leftovers from this tasty bird,
  chop and use them for chicken salad, sprinkled with toasted almonds
  or pine nuts."
  
  From Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook.  By Nancy Enright.
  Toronto: James Lorimer & Company, Publishers, 1985.  Pg. 8.  ISBN
  0-88862-788-2. Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Breasts Stuffed w/Garlic, Ginger, Ham & Tarragon
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Main dish, Meats, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6    Boneless chicken breasts
           Salt & fresh ground pepper
      3 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 lb Ham; finely chopped
           -- (about one cup)
      2    To 3 garlic clove
           -- peeled & finely chopped
      2 tb Fresh ginger
           -- peeled & finely chopped
      4 tb Fresh tarragon; chopped
           -- (or preserved in vinegar)
      1 lg Lemon; chopped zest of
           Lemon juice or white wine
           Butter
           Vegetable mirepoix
      1 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Whipping cream
           Salt and pepper; to taste
 
  To prepare chicken breasts, place between sheets of waxed paper.
  Gently pound with a mallet until flat and tender.  Sprinkle each with
  salt, pepper and lemon juice.  Keep covered in refrigerator.
  
  To make stuffing, combine ham, garlic, ginger, half the tarragon and
  about 2/3 of the lemon zest in a bowl, blending well.  Add a dash of
  lemon juice or wine to moisten.
  
  To stuff breasts, place equal amounts of filling on center of each.
  Bring sides up to encase filling, shaping with your hands into a
  round package and tucking in ends to seal.  Greasy the shiny side of
  six, foot-long strips of foil, about 2 inches wide.  Encircle each
  breast with foil, greased side in, pulling tightly so that foil wraps
  around breast. (This retains shape during baking.)  Fold over edge on
  top to secure foil. Brush tops of chicken with butter.  Sprinkle with
  salt, pepper and a little tarragon.  Can be refrigerated, covered at
  this point, if baking is to be done several hours later.
  
  Preheat oven to 400 F.  Place the vegetable mirepoix in bottom of a
  large baking dish.  Place chicken breasts on top of vegetables. Pour
  enough wine around bottom of pan just to cover mirepoix. Bake 10 to
  12 minutes, then turn heat down to 350 degrees. Baste chicken. Cover
  pan loosely with foil and bake another 15 minutes or until chicken
  breasts are done but still moist inside. Remove foil covering from
  pan; turn broiler on to brown chicken tops, about 2 minutes.
  
  Remove pan from oven.  Place chicken on heated platter and keep warm;
  carefully remove foil strips.  Meanwhile, remove and discard mirepoix
  vegetables from roasting pan.  Place pan on top of stove.  Remove any
  surface fat and bring to a boil.  Add chicken stock and cream and
  reduce over high heat, stirring until of desired consistency.  Taste
  and adjust seasonings.
  
  To serve, garnish chicken breasts with remaining lemon zest and
  tarragon. Place a little sauce on a heated plate, then place chicken
  breast on top.
  
  Good served with rice-stuffed tomatoes.
  
  Serves 4 to 6, depending upon size of chicken breasts.
  
  Note:  Mirepoix means aromatic vegetables (carrot, celery and onion)
  chopped and placed in the bottom of a roasting pan).
  
  Most of this dish can be prepared in advance.
  
  From Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook.  By Nancy Enright.
  Toronto: James Lorimer & Company Publishers, 1985.  Pp. 56-57.  ISBN
  0-88862-788-2. Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gateau Russe aux noix
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      6    Whites
    100 g  Sugar
    120 g  Almond powder
    120 g  Icing sugar
     50 g  Flour
           Vanilla

MMMMM------------------------BUTTER CREAM-----------------------------
    180 g  Sugar
     80 g  Water
      6    Yolks
    360 g  Butter
           Coffee extract

MMMMM---------------------------SYRUP--------------------------------
     50 g  Sugar
    100 g  Water
     20 g  Rum

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
     50 g  Chopped walnuts
      8    Walnut halves

MMMMM--------------------------CARAMEL-------------------------------
    150 g  Water
    150 g  Sugar
           Juice of 1 lemon
 
  Marzipan
  
  Mix almond powder, icing sugar, and flour together. Beat whites to
  froth, add sugar, beat to firm peak. Incorperate powder into whites.
  Add vanilla now if using extract, if using powdered, add with almond
  powder. Pour into chemisier'd round pan, 8 inches or so, and bake at
  375-390 till it's done.
  
  Boil sugar and water together. While it's boiling, beat the yolks
  over a double boiler untill they are light and fluffy. When the syrup
  reaches soft ball, pour into yolks and continue beating untill it is
  cool or it reaches ribbon stage (creme will form a ribbon that will
  stay on the surface for a while before sinking).
  
  Beat the butter till it's the same consistancy as the creme. Mix the
  two together and add the coffee extract.
  
  Boil the sugar and water for syrup, add rum.
  
  Boil the sugar and water for caramell, take it to the point where it
  just starts to change color. Remove, dunk the nuts in and let cool.
  You will have to crush the chopped walnuts, as they will now be a big
  sticky mess.
  
  Cut the cake in half, spread with syrup, add a layer of butter cream,
  sprinkle with chopped nuts, spread the top part with syrup, place on
  top of cake, and cover with butter cream. Decorate with butter cream
  rosettes and walnut halves.
  
  Posted on rec.food.recipes by ah787@freenet.carleton.ca (Bill Stuart)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Basil Mayonnaise
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Dips/spread, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 batch
 
    1/3 c  Vegetable oil
      1    Egg
      4    To 7 garlic cloves; to taste
    1/2 c  Spicy Globe or lemon basil
           -- tightly packed
    1/4 ts Dry mustard or
      1 ts Dijon-style mustard
      1 tb Lemon juice or cider vinegar
      1 ds Sugar
           Salt and pepper; to taste
    2/3 c  Olive oil
 
  Put all ingredients except the olive oil in a blender or food
  processor fitted with a steel blade.  Puree for 1 minute, then slowly
  add the olive oil with the machine still running.  Stop as soon as
  all the olive oil has been added and the oil has emulsified.  Do not
  overblend. A tablespoon of hot water blended into the finished
  mayonnaise will stabilize it.
  
  "The Herb Companion" writes: "Try this spread with meats, grilled
  chicken, and vegetables, on sandwiches, and in salads."
  
  Recipe from Karen Potter Morrione/Atlanta, GA in "Kitchen Table: Where
  Herbs and Spices Make a Difference" column in "The Herb Companion."
  Dec. 1994/Jan. 1994, Vol. 6, No. 2.  Pg. 82.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Braised Tuna Steaks
 Categories: Main dish, Seafood, Microwave, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Tuna steaks, 1" thick
      1    Garlic clove, peeled and
           -cut in thin slivers
      8 oz Button onions, peeled
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Red wine
    1/2 c  Water
      1    Bay leaf

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Flour
      1 tb Tomato paste
    1/2 ts Thyme
      1 tb Chopped parsley
           Squeeze of lemon juice
           Salt and pepper

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      1 lb Spinach, washed and thinly
           -sliced
      1 tb Butter
 
  Make small slits in the tuna steaks with a knife and insert a sliver
  of garlic into each slit.  Heat a browning dish for 3 minutes on
  High. Drop in 1T butter and the peeled onions.  Heat for 1-2 minutes
  on High, stirring occasionally, until the onions begin to brown. Pour
  in the water and wine. Transfer the contents of the browning dish to
  a large casserole. Add the bay leaf and fish to the casserole, cover
  loosely and cook for 5 minutes on High.  Remove the fish and onions
  from the casserole and keep them warm. Melt 1T butter in small, deep
  bowl for 30 seconds on High. Stir in the flour and cook for 1-2
  minutes on High or until flour is lightly browned. Pour in the
  cooking liquid from the fish, and add the tomato paste and thyme.
  Cook for 2-3 minutes on High, stirring occasionally until thickened.
  Add the parsley, lemon juice, salt and pepper, and set aside with the
  fish.  Melt the remaining butter in a small casserole on High for 30
  seconds.  Put in the spinach, cover loosely and cook for 1-2 minutes
  on High.  Spread the spinach onto a serving plate and combine the
  fish and sauce to re-heat for 30 seconds on High. Arrange the fish
  and onions on top of the bed of spinach and pour the sauce over to
  serve.
  
  The Complete Microwave Cookbook.  Judith Ferguson and Celia Norman.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shrimps with Basil, Leeks and Tomatoes
 Categories: Fish, Herbs/spice, Main dish, Rice
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6    Jumbo fresh shrimp (1/2 lb.)
           -- peeled and deveined
    1/3 c  Lemon juice or white wine
      1    Garlic clove; peeled
           -- finely chopped
      2 tb Fresh basil; chopped
      2    Leeks; white part only
      2 tb Unsalted butter
      2 tb Olive oil
      2    Tomatoes; peeled
           -- seeded and chopped
           Salt and pepper; to taste
           Whole basil sprigs; garnish
           Prepared rice
 
  "With the sauce prepared in advance, this colorful dish makes a quick
  entree for two, good served over fluffy rice."
  
  Marinate prepared shrimp several hours in lemon juice or white wine,
  with half the garlic and half the basil.
  
  Meanwhile, cut leeks lengthwise and wash well under running cold
  water, then chop.
  
  Heat 1 tb. butter and 1 tb. oil in large skillet until hot.  Add
  leeks and saute 5 minutes, or until soft.  Add remaining garlic and
  the tomatoes; cook over medium heat 6 to 8 minutes.  Add remaining
  basil and salt and pepper to taste.  Cook until thick.  Mixture can
  be refrigerated at this point, overnight, if desired.
  
  Several minutes before serving, reheat leek-tomato mixture over
  medium-high heat in skillet.
  
  In separate pan, heat remaining butter and oil until sizzling.  Add
  shrimp and cook on first side 40 seconds, or until they turn pink.
  Turn and cook on remaining side 40 seconds more. Pour heated
  leek-tomato mixture over top of shrimp and cook, stirring, 1 minute.
  
  Serve at once over rice pilaf, if desired, garnished with whole basil
  sprigs.
  
  Yield:  Serves 2 as an entree, or 3 as an appetizer.
  
  From _Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook_ by Nancy Enright.
  Toronto: James Lorimer & Company, 1985.  Pg. 10.  ISBN 0-88862-788-2.
  Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stephanie's Pate de Foie (Chicken Liver Pate)
 Categories: Appetizers, Herbs/spice, Nuts/grains, Poultry
      Yield: 1 batch
 
MMMMM-----------------------CHICKEN STOCK----------------------------
      2 c  ;Water
      3    Chicken bouillon cubes
      4    Parsley stalks
      1 sm Bay leaf
      6    Black peppercorns
      1 pn Thyme

MMMMM----------------------------PATE---------------------------------
      2 lb Chicken livers
      2 c  Whipping cream
  1 1/2 lb Onions
      1 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1    Lemon; juice of
  1 1/2 lb Unsalted butter; room temp.
      1 tb Cognac; or to taste
      1 tb Brandy or dry sherry
           -- to taste
      1 tb "Fine spices" mixture

MMMMM-----------------------MADEIRA GLAZE----------------------------
      1 c  Beef stock
      1 tb Unflavored gelatin
           -- packaged
    1/3 c  Madeira wine or dry sherry

MMMMM-------------------------GARNISHES------------------------------
           Carved radish or tomato
           -flowers
           Small parsley leaves

MMMMM-------------------------VARIATIONS------------------------------
      1 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts or
      1 c  Coarsely chopped pistachios
 
  The author writes: "This food processor recipe makes about 4 lbs. -
  enough pate to pack into crocks for holiday gifts your friends will
  enjoy. The amount of butter can be reduced for a less expensive
  version, but it won't be as smooth. Do not use margarine.  If you
  don't have homemade chicken stock, use a bouquet garni to enhance the
  instant kind. In place of prepared "fine spices," you may substitute
  a pinch each of white pepper, red pepper, mace, sage, marjoram,
  rosemary, cinnamon, nutmeg and tarragon."
  
  For bouillon "stock," bring water to boil with chicken cubes.  In a
  cheesecloth bag, tie parsley, bay leaf, peppercorns and thyme; place
  in stock.  Simmer for 20 minutes.  Remove bag and discard.
  
  For pate:  Marinate liver in cream for 8 hours or overnight in
  refrigerator.  Rinse liver in cold water several times; cover with
  fresh cold water and bring to the boiling point.  Immediately drain
  water, fill with fresh cold water and bring to boil again.  Repeat
  procedure twice more.  (This removes bitter taste.)
  
  Now add chicken stock to cover liver and bring to boiling point.
  Turn down to simmer and cook 20 minutes.  If time allows, let liver
  cool in the stock.  Drain well.
  
  Finely chop onions in food processor.  Saute the onions in some of the
  butter until transparent but not colored.  In a very large mixing
  bowl, blend all ingredients except the fine spices with liver and
  remaining butter.
  
  Place batches of this mixture in food processor and process until very
  smooth.  Repeat as needed.  Add fine spices; taste and adjust
  seasonings. Some salt may be required.  (When tasting warm, the
  seasonings are more acute than when cold.  So add a bit more to
  achieve desired taste.) Taste for cognac and brandy; adjust
  accordingly.
  
  Pack into well-buttered or oiled molds; gently tap to release any air
  pockets. Cover with foil; refrigerate.  To unmold, immerse to half
  their depth in hot water, counting 10 seconds, then invert onto a
  platter. Garnish with carved flowers of radishes or tomatoes, if
  desired. Or spoon pate into a piping bag and squeeze out in swirls
  onto crackers or toasted bread rounds.  Garnish each with a tiny
  parsley leaf.
  
  To store several weeks, pour melted butter completely over top of
  pate in mold.  Cover with foil; refrigerate.  To serve, remove and
  discard hardened butter from top and unmold as above.
  
  To glaze with Madeira: Heat beef stock and add packaged, unflavored
  gelatin.  Allow to dissolve and add Madeira wine or dry sherry.  Set
  aside to thicken slightly.  With a pastry brush, paint glaze all over
  unmolded pate.  Several coats may be required for an even glaze. Or
  pour glaze gently over pate by setting pate on a rack over a plate
  (to catch the overflow).
  
  To vary, fold in walnuts or pistachios after blending pate
  ingredients in food processor.  Then add the fine spices and taste.
  
  Yield:  About 4 lbs., or enough for a cocktail party of 16.
  
  From _Nancy Enright's Canadian Herb Cookbook_ by Nancy Enright.
  Toronto: James Lorimer & Company, 1985.  Pp. 12-13.  ISBN
  0-88862-788-2. Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Keftes de Prassa (Leek Meatballs)
 Categories: Meats, Herbs/spice, Jewish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 bn Leeks
  1 1/2 c  ;Salted water
      2 lb Lean ground beef
      4    Eggs; beaten
      1 ts Each cumin and turmeric
      1 ts Each salt and pepper
      2 ts Garlic; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Dill weed or
      2 ts Dried dill weed
    1/4 c  Sesame seeds
           Flour
           Olive or vegetable oil
           Lemon wedges or
           Red wine vinegar
 
  Cut off roots from bulb end of leeks.  Remove tough outer leaves and
  trim off tops.  Slice lengthwise and wash thoroughly under running
  water. Slice into 1/2" pieces.  Bring salted water to a boil, add
  leeks, and simmer 10 minutes or until leeks are tender.  Drain in a
  colander and squeeze all water from leeks.
  
  Combine remaining ingredients (except flour and oil), add leeks, and
  blend gently.  Shape into meatballs and roll in flour.  Flatten
  meatballs a little and fry in 1/4" oil until brown on both sides. Add
  more oil to pan when necessary.  Serve with lemon wedges or red wine
  vinegar.
  
  Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
  
  Variations:  Substitute 5 cups finely chopped parsley or scallions
  for the leeks.  The beef mixture can be shaped into finger rolls,
  stuffed with cooked rice, and fried in olive or sesame oil.  Or
  barbecue the meatballs after coating them with flour.
  
  From _From My Grandmother's Kitchen: A Sephardic Cookbook_ by Viviane
  Alchech Miner with Linda Krinn.  Gainesville, FL: Triad Publishing
  Company, Inc., 1984.  Pg. 74.  ISBN 0-937404-23-3.  Posted by Cathy
  Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RASPBERRY QUEEN OF PUDDINGS (Marguerite Patten)
 Categories: Puddings
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Finely grated lemon rind
     10 fl Milk
    1/2 oz Butter or margarine
      1 oz Caster or soft brown sugar
      3 oz Fine brown or white
           -breadcrumbs
      3    Eggs
      3 tb Raspberry jam

MMMMM--------------------------MERINGUE-------------------------------
      5 oz Caster sugar
 
  Mix the lemon rind with the milk and bring to the boil over a gentle
  heat. Remove from the heat. Add the butter or margarine, sugar and
  breadcrumbs. Mix well and allow to cool. Preheat the oven to
  160C/325F, Gas Mark 3.
  
  Separate the yolks from the whites of 2 eggs. Beat the 2 yolks with
  the whole egg. Whisk into the breadcrumb mixture then pour into a 1
  to 1.5 pint/600 to 900 ml greased ovenproofdish. Stand the dish in a
  roasting tin of cold water. Bake for 45 to 50 minutes, or until the
  mixture is set. Spread with the raspberry jam. Reduce the oven heat
  to 150C/300F, Gas Mark 2. Whisk the egg whites until stiff. Slowly
  whisk in half the sugar, then fold in the remainder. Pipe the
  meringue in a lattice work or spread over the pudding and then make
  it into peaks. Return to the oven for 15 to 20 minutes until the
  meringue is light golden in colour. Serve hot. Variations
  
  If serving the pudding cold allow at least 1 hour cooking time when
  the meringue is added to the pudding at 140C/275F, Gas Mark 1.
  
  Chocolate Queen of Puddings
  
  Blend 1 oz/25 g cocoa powder with the hot milk. Use apricot jam over
  the baked pudding before adding the meringue.
  
  Swiss Roll Pudding
  
  Omit the breadcrumbs in the recipe. Put about 4 slices of jam filled
  Swiss Roll into the pie dish. Blend the milk, sugar and eggs
  together, strain over the Swiss Roll. Bake as above then top with a
  little jam or thick fruit puree before adding the meringue.
  
  Source: Marguerite Patten's Marvellous Meals, Yours Magazine, UK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HERRING STIR-FRY (Marguerite Patten)
 Categories: Main dish, Fish, Wok
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 sm Herrings
      1    Inch root ginger;peeled
      1 sm Carrot, peeled
      1 sm Onion, peeled
      2 oz Broccoli
      2 oz Caulitlower
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
           Salt and black pepper

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Thin strips of lemon rind
 
  Ask the fishmonger to bone and fillet the herrings. Cut the fillets
  into slices. Finely chop the ginger, cut the carrot into sticks and
  thinly slice the onion. Cut the broccoli and cauliflower into small
  ilorets. Heat the oil in a large frying pan or wok. Stir-fiy the
  ginger and vegetables for about 2 minutes. Add the herring slices and
  cook for a further 3 to 4 minutes, stirring carefully so the fish
  stays in shape. Just before serving add the lemon juice and
  seasoning. Sprinkle with the lemon rind. Serve with noodles or rice.
  
  Source: Marguerite Patten's Marvellous Meals, Yours Magazine, UK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Eggplant Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese/eggs, Herbs/spice, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Eggplant
           Olive oil
      1 lg Onion; peeled & quartered
      3    Garlic cloves; unpeeled
      1    Red bell pepper
           -- halved and seeded
      1 ts Oregano; chopped
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/8 ts Each salt and pepper
      4 oz Feta cheese; crumbled
      2 tb Parsley; chopped
           Pita bread or crackers
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F.
  
  Halve eggplant lengthwise.  Brush all sides with olive oil.  Place
  halves cut-side down on a baking sheet.  Bake 25 minutes.  Brush
  onion, garlic and red pepper with oil; add to eggplant.  Bake 25-30
  minutes longer or until vegetables are tender.
  
  Cool eggplant; scoop out flesh and place in a food processor or wooden
  bowl.  Squeeze garlic pulp from skins, peel red pepper, and add to
  eggplant along with onion, oregano, lemon juice, olive oil, salt and
  pepper. Process or finely chop by hand.  Do not puree.  Mix in 3 oz.
  of the feta cheese.
  
  Spoon mixture into a serving bowl.  Sprinkle remaining feta cheese
  around the edge of mixture; mound parsley in the center.  Serve with
  pita bread or crackers.
  
  Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
  
  From 1994 Shepherd's Garden Seeds Catalog, pg. 19.  Posted by Cathy
  Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Akin Back Farm's Pasta Blue
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Main dish, Pasta, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Boneless chicken breasts
           -- skinless
      6    Sprigs fresh rosemary
      6    Sprigs fresh thyme
      1 lb Ziti
    3/4 c  Unsalted butter
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
      1 c  Gorgonzola cheese; shredded
           Salt and pepper; to taste
  3 1/2 c  Fresh spinach
           -- torn in bite-size pieces
      1 bn Nasturtiums
 
  Prepare pasta according to package directions; set aside.
  
  Poach chicken breasts; remove meat and cube. Combine all ingredients
  except nasturtiums.  Garnish with nasturtiums.
  
  Given to me by Herman Sommerville II on 03/09/93.  He said that this
  recipe from Akin' Back herb nursery in Shelbyville, KY was in Alice
  Columbo's "Cook's Corner" column in "The (Louisville, KY)
  Courier-Journal." Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Tortellini with Creamy Mushroom Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7 oz Spinach tortellini (1 box)
    1/4 c  Diced onion
      1 c  Sliced fresh mushrooms
           -- (abt. 3 oz.)
      3 tb Butter
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      3 tb Flour
      1 c  Chicken broth
      1 ts Salt; or to taste
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
           Freshly ground pepper
    1/4 c  White wine
      1 c  Frozen peas; cooked

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Chopped parsley
           Scallion rings
 
  Cook tortellini in large pot of rapidly boiling salted water for
  about 25 minutes or until tender, stirring occasionally.  Drain.
  
  Meanwhile, in a medium saucepan, saute onions and mushrooms in butter
  and lemon juice until tender but not brown.  Sprinkle with flour;
  toss. Add broth and cream, stirring until the mixture is thickened
  and comes to a boil.  Add seasonings and wine.  Cook an additional
  minute.
  
  Divide tortellini among serving plates.  Pour sauce over tortellini.
  Sprinkle with cooked peas and garnishes.  Serve immediately.
  
  Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
  
  On back of 7 oz. box Amore brand cheese tortellini.  Liberty Richter,
  Carlstadt, NJ 07072.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Good Neighbor Hummus
 Categories: Dips/spread, Middle east
      Yield: 2 cups
 
      3 c  Garbanzo beans
           -- 2 16 oz. cans
           -- rinsed and drained
    1/2 c  Tahini
      7 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Tamari or soy sauce
           -- preferably tamari
      4 lg Garlic cloves
           -- crushed or minced
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/8    To 1/4 tsp. cayenne pepper
      1    Portion olive oil
           (opt'l. but I wld. include)
      1    Portion paprika
           (opt'l. but I wld. include)
      1    Portion chopped parsley
           (opt'l. but I wld. include)
 
  Put beans, tahini, lemon juice, 1/4 c. olive oil, tamari, garlic and
  peppers in food processor; blend to desired smoothness.  Transfer to
  serving bowl.
  
  Drizzle top with olive oil; sprinkle with paprika and parsley if
  desired.
  
  Note: In her column notes, Colombo mentions that chili paste can be
  purchased at Oriental food markets.  This recipe makes no mention of
  chili paste, although it was an ingredient in the Good Neighbor
  Szechuan noodles. Seeing as how I think Good Neighbor may have "held
  back" a little bit on this recipe (they wouldn't give it out for
  years, as it's one of their best sellers), you may also want to
  experiment and add a little chili paste to this recipe, which does
  have a slight bite to it when purchased at Good Neighbors.
  
  Absolutely great with unsalted blue corn chips! Have eaten many times
  but haven't made at home yet.  It's delicious, and sells for
  $4.50/lb. at Good Neighbors.
  
  From Alice Colombo's 01/27/93 "Cook's Corner" column in "The
  (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal."  Pg. C7.  Requested by
  Louisvillean Carol Grady, who wrote: "I am addicted to the wonderful
  food available at Louisville's Good Neighbor Foods Co-op Cafe, but I
  know I can't ask you to obtain recipes for all of their creations.
  Let's start with three of my favorites: hummus, Szechuan noodles and
  maple pumpkin pie." Alice Colombo responded: "I have to agree with
  you - all are winners." Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Octopus Salad
 Categories: Seafood, Salads, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Octopus, cleaned, cooked;
           Cut in 1" pieces or smaller
      1 sm Red bell pepper, seeded &
           -sliced in bite sized strips
    3/4 c  Corn, kernel
      9 oz Kidney beans; drained
           Romaine lettuce leaves
           Salt/pepper

MMMMM-----------------------CHILE DRESSING----------------------------
    1/2 c  Oil
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Dry oregano
  1 1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1    Chile serrano;
           -seeded & minced
 
  Cook octopus in boiling water until opaque (not too long, probably
  less than 1 min.).  Drain, rinse in cold water and pat dry.  (Remove
  skin if desired).  Cut to size.
  
  Prepare Chile Dressing:
  
  Mix salad oil, lemon juice, dry oregano and ground cumin and one or
  two jalapeno or serrano chiles, seeded and minced.
  
  Mix octopus, dressing, bell peppers, corn and beans.  Top lettuce with
  salad mixture, season with salt and pepper to taste.
  
  found on rec.food.recipes Stephanie da Silva (arielle@taronga.com),
  moderator
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: VEGAN: Bread Pudding
 Categories: Vegetarian, Puddings
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Grated apples
           Juice of 1 lemon
      4 c  Whole grain bread, cubed,
           -small
    1/3 c  Raisins
      1 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 c  Soymilk
    1/2 c  Maple syrup
           Some vanilla if you use
           -plain soymilk
           Egg replacer to equal
           -one egg
 
  Mix lemon juice with grated apple. Blend the soymilk, egg replacer,
  maple syrup and cinnamon (and vanilla, if you use it) together. Put
  one third of the bread in the bottom of a greased 8" by 8" baking
  dish and cover with 1 cup of the apples and half the raisins.  Pour
  one cup of the liquid mixture over these ingredients.  Repeat the
  layers of bread, apple and raisins, ending with a top layer of bread.
  Pour the rest of the liquid ingredients over it.  Sprinkle with
  cinnamon. Let pudding sit for a few minutes (original recipes called
  for 20 minutes, I let it sit for 5). Bake, covered, at 350 degrees F
  (325 if you use a glass dish) for 45 minutes. Let stand for 10 to 20
  minutes at room temperature before serving. Was great for breakfast.
  
  Notes: I used a whole wheat cinnamon raisin bread, which combined
  with the vanilla soymilk and maple syrup made it fairly sweet, which
  I like but others might not. The orginal recipe called for margerine
  to be dotted on top before baking. I cut it out because of fat
  considerations, but I guess it would make the top crisper. Heavily
  adapted from a recipe in the original Laurel's Kitchen.  It creates a
  soft, moist, but yummy pudding. This was my first attempt to veganize
  a baked recipe, and I think it turned out fairly well. Debbie
  Schwartz <das@halcyon.com> Seattle, WA on rec.food.recipes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minced Meat Kabobs
 Categories: Appetizers, Meats, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Ground round
    1/2 c  Rice - cooked
      1 tb Onion - minced
      1 tb Fresh parsley - minced
      1 tb Fresh mint - minced
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground allspice
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground pepper - fresh
      3 sm Zucchini - cut into 1 inch
      1    Red bell pepper - cut into
           -1 inch
      2 tb Olive oil - good quality
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Fresh mint - minced
 
  In a large bowl, combine the first 9 ingredients and mix vigorously
  with your hands until smooth (5 to 6 minutes).  Shape into about a
  dozen meatballs. Thread them onto 4 skewers, alternating with the
  zucchini and red pepper. Preheat the oven to broil. In a glass jar,
  combine the olive oil, lemon juice, and the 1 teaspoon of mint; cover
  and shake well. Brish the kabobs with the oil mixture and broil 4
  inches from heat; turn the kabobs occasionally and brish with the
  remaining oil mixture until meatballs are brown (about 10 to 12
  minutes).
  
  Posted on rec.food.recipes by DI2@delphi.com
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Cheesecake
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese/eggs, Seafood
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Crackers - ritz, crushed
      3 tb Butter - melted
     16 oz Cream cheese softened
      3    Eggs
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Lemon juice - fresh
      2 ts Onion - grated
    1/4 ts Old Bay or chowder seasoning
      2 dr Tabasco sauce
    1/8 ts Ground pepper - fresh
      1 c  Lump crabmeat -- canned
    1/2 c  Sour cream
 
  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees.  Mix together the crackers and
  butter and use the mixture to line a 9 inch springform pan.  Bake for
  about 10 minutes.  Set aside to cool.  Reduce the oven to 325
  degrees. With an electric mixer, beat together until fluffy the cream
  cheese, eggs, and 1/4 cup sour cream.  Add the lemon juice, onion,
  Old Bay seasoning, Tabasco, and black pepper.  Stir in the crabmeat
  and mix well. Pour into the cooled crust and bake 50 minutes until
  the cake sets. Remove from the oven. Run a knife around the edge of
  the cake, loosening it from the pan. Cool on a wire rack.  Remove the
  sides of the pan. Spread the cake with the sour cream.
  
  Posted on rec.food.recipes by DI2@delphi.com
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tabbouleh (Lebanese Style)
 Categories: Vegetarian, Middle east, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    2/3 c  Bulgur
      2 c  Water
    2/3 c  Minced red onion
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground allspice
    1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh mint
           -leaves or 1 tb dried,
           -crumbled
  2 1/2 c  Finely chopped fresh parsley
           -leaves (preferably flat-
           -leafed)
    1/2 c  Finely chopped scallion
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
  1 1/2 c  Finely-diced seeded seedless
           -cucumber
 
  Put bulgur in a heatproof bowl. Bring water to a boil and pour over
  bulgur. Let bulgur stand 1 hour.
  
  While bulgur is soaking, in a large bowl, stir together onion, salt,
  allspice, and dried mint, if using (do not add fresh mint now), and
  let stand 30 minutes. Drain bulgur in a sieve, pressing hard to
  extract as much water as possible, and add to onion mixture with
  remaining ingredients, including fresh mint, if using.
  
  Toss salad well and season with salt and pepper.
  
  Appeared in the Jan 1995 issue of Gourmet magazine.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TOMATO AND HERB BRUSCHETTA - Bon Appetit
 Categories: Tomatoes, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Plum tomatoes, halved,
           -seeded, chopped
    1/3 c  Chopped fresh basil leaves
      1 tb Chopped garlic
      1 tb Chopped fresh oregano leaves
      1 tb Balsamic  vinegar
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      6    1/2 to 3/4-inch-thick slices
           -crusty bread, toasted
 
  Mix first 7 ingredients in bowl. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
  (Tomato mixture can be prepared 2 hours ahead. Let stand at room
  temperature.) Cut toasted bread in half. Spoon tomato mixture atop
  bread and serve.
  
  Bon Appetit/July/94  Scanned & edited by Di Pahl & <gg>
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SLOPPY JOE SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Ketchup
      1 tb White vinegar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      1 ts Paprika
      1 tb Dark brown sugar
      4    Buns
 
  Brown meat and onions until no longer pink. Be sure to break up the
  meat. (I add garlic, too. One clove.) Combine all of the liquids and
  add to pan. Cook, uncovered, for about thirty minutes on low heat. It
  should be thick. Serve on the buns. Enjoy!
  
  Posted By krikunov@mail1.sas.upenn.edu ("Sergei K. Krikunov") On
  rec.food.recipes or rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LEMON LOAF CAKE
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 1 cake
 
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/4 ts Baking powder
    3/4 ts Ground ginger
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Granulated sugar
           Rind (colored part only) of
           -2 lemons
      6 oz Unsalted butter, softened
      3 oz Cream cheese, softened
      2 lg Eggs
      8 oz Lemon yogurt

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Confectioner's sugar
      5 ts Fresh lemon juice
 
  1. Heat oven to 325 degrees. Grease an 8 1/2-by 4 1/2-inch loaf pan
  and dust lightly with flour. Sift together flour, baking powder,
  ginger and salt; set aside.
  
  2. Sprinkle several tablespoons of granulated sugar on a cutting
  board. Add lemon rind and chop as fine as possible. Transfer to a
  large mixer bowl and add remaining granulated sugar, butter and cream
  cheese. Beat on high speed until light and fluffy, 3 minutes. Add
  eggs, one at a time, mixing well after each addition. Add yogurt and
  mix well. Stop the mixer and add dry ingredients. Mix just until
  combined.
  
  3. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until a toothpick inserted
  in the center comes out clean, 60 to 70 minutes. Cool in pan for 5
  minutes then invert onto a wire rack.
  
  4. Make glaze by mixing confectioner's sugar and enough lemon juice
  to make a glaze. Pour over warm cake.
  
  Posted By japlady@nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor) On rec.food.recipes or
  rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 7 up Bundt Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Margarine
      3 c  Flour
      3 c  Sugar
      2 tb Realemon
      5    Eggs
    3/4 c  7 Up (regualr, not diet)
 
  Cream sugar and margarine and beat until light and fluffy.  Add eggs
  one at a time, and beat well. Add flour. Beat in Realemon and 7 Up.
  Pour batter into well greased and floured Bundt pan. Bake at 325F for
  1 1/4 hours.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bob Hope's Mother's Lemon Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      3 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Boiling water
      4    Egg yolks, beaten slightly
      2 tb Butter
      4 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Lemon rind, grated
 
  Combine sugar and cornstarch in top of double boiler.  Add the water
  slowly, stirring until thick.
  
  Gradually add the egg yolks, butter, grated lemon rind, lemon juice
  and salt.  Stir for 1 or 2 minutes before pouring into a baked shell.
  
  Posted By japlady@nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor) On rec.food.recipes or
  rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach Salad With Lemon Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh spinach
      1    Clove(s) garlic
      1 ts Sugar
      1    Lemon rind, grated
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Sour cream
    1/2 c  Oil
 
  Blend all ingredients except spinach for 15 seconds.  Toss with
  spinach and serve.
  
  Posted By japlady@nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor) On rec.food.recipes or
  rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KOLACHE Slovakian pastry
 Categories: Pastry, Desserts, East europe
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pkg yeast
  1 1/2 c  Milk, scalded and cooled
           -to 80F
    1/2 c  Sugar
  1 1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
      7 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Mace
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
    3/4 c  Shortening
 
  1. Crumple yeast into bowl 2. Add milk which has been scalded and
  cooled to 80F 3. Add sugar and salt. Stir to dissolve. 4. Beat the
  eggs well. Add the beaten eggs. 5. Sift flour once before measuring.
  Spool lightly into cup to measure. 6. Add the mace and lemon rind to
  the flour, then add all the flour to the liquid, at once, working it
  in thoroughly with your hands. 7. Work in the softened shortening. 8.
  When the dough is well mixed, knead gently in bowl or on lightly
  floured board until smooth. 9. Round up and set to rise in a well
  greased bowl. Cover bowl and keep dough at 80-85F until doubled in
  bulk, about 2 hours. 10. Remove dough from bowl and round up on a
  lightly floured board.
    Cover and allow to loosen up for 15 minutes. 11. Shape into desired
  shapes. (I.e. roll out, wrap the fillings
    in the dough, etc.) 12. Let the kolache rise again until not quite
  doubled in bulk,
    about 30-40 minutes. 13. Brush top with solution of 1 egg yolk
  slightly beaten and
    diluted with 1/2 cold water. 14. Bake 20-25 minutes in 400F oven.
  15. When done baking, rub the crust with butter.
  
  Posted By heffron@falstaff.css.beckman.com (Matt Heffron) On
  rec.food.recipes or rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandeltorte (Almond Torte) Recipe
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 2 tortes
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Almond Extract
      6    Egg Yolks
      7    Egg Whites
      1    Lemon, Juice & Rind Only
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Unblanched Almonds, Ground
    1/2 c  Toasted Bread Crumbs
           Lemon Orange Custard Filling
           Confectioner's Sugar, Sifted
 
  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. All ingredients must be at room
  temperature (70 degrees F) before starting. Sift the flour. Beat the
  egg yolks. Gradually add the sugar to the egg yolks. Beat until
  creamy. Add the lemon rind, lemon juice, cinnamon, ground almonds,
  bread crumbs and almond extract. Whip the egg whites until stiff but
  not dry. Fold the egg whites lightly into the batter. Pour the batter
  into 2 (8") ungreased layer cake pans. Bake about 20 minutes. Cool.
  Carefully(!) remove from the pans. Spread Lemon Orange Custard
  filling between the layers. Sprinkle sifted confectioner's sugar over
  the top.
  
  Posted By Joel.Ehrlich@salata.com (Joel Ehrlich) On rec.food.recipes
  or rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fondue Bread with Sliced Apples And Chutney
 Categories: Breads, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2    Eggs
      1 lb Muenster cheese, shredded
      1 tb Minced fresh rosemary
      1 lb Frozen white bread dough,
           -thawed according to package
           -directions
    1/3 c  Sliced almonds
      2    Red apples
      2    Green apples
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Mango chutney, optional
           Sprigs of fresh rosemary
 
  1.  Adjust oven rack to middle position.  Heat oven to 325 degrees.
  Grease a 9-inch springform pan with butter or margarine.
  
  2.  Reserve 1 egg white for later use.  Beat 2 eggs yolks and 1 egg
  white in a medium bowl.  Add cheese and rosemary; stir to combine and
  set aside.
  
  3.  Roll thawed dough on a lightly floured work surface into a
  rectangle about 6 ny 20 inches.  Place cheese mixture lengthwise on
  center of dough. Fold the dough over the filling and pinch to seal
  seam. Place roll seam-side down around the outside of the prepared
  springform pan to make a ring; pinch ends to seal.  Brush with sliced
  almonds.
  
  4.  Bake for 1 hour.  Release pan hinge and remove bread immediately,
  allow bread to rest 15 minutes on a wire rack before serving.  Slice
  apples and place them in a bowl of cold water that has been mixed
  with 1 tablespoon lemon juice.
  
  5.  Place cheese-filled bread in center of large round platter. Brain
  apples and pat dry.  Arrange overlapping in small groupings around the
  bread.  Garnish with sprigs of fresh rosemary, if desired. Serve with
  chutney, if desired.  Cut bread into wedges.
  
  Advance preparation:  Assemble and freeze, unbaked.  Thaw 6 hours in
  the refrigerator.  Increase baking time by 5 minutes.
  
  Note:  Cheese will shred more easily in the food processor if it is
  very cold.  Place it in the freezer for 10 minutes before grating.
  
  Posted By annalea@its.com (Annalea Sommerville) On rec.food.recipes or
  rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pan-Roasted Squab with Salsify
 Categories: Game, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Squab or cornish game hens
      1 lg Carrot, diced
      2    Ribs celery, diced
      1 md Onion, diced
      2 qt Chicken stock or
           -reduced-salt broth
    1/4 ts Dried thyme
      3 lg Shallots, diced
    1/4 lb Bing cherries, pits removed
      1 c  Red wine
           Salt and pepper
    1/2 lb Salsify
           -(substitute parsnips)
      2 tb Lemon juice or white vinegar
      5 tb Unsalted butter
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      3 bn Fresh spinach
 
  1. Heat oven to 450 degrees. Cut (or have the butcher cut) legs and
  breast meat with wings attached from the carcass of each squab. Cut
  off wing tips. Cover breast and leg pieces and refrigerate. Place
  carcasses and wing tips in a roasting pan and cook in the oven until
  well browned.
  
  2. Add diced carrot, celery and onion to the pan and continue to roast
  until vegetables are soft. Reserve  3/4 cup of chicken stock and add
  the remainder to the pan along with the thyme. Lower heat to 375
  degrees and simmer stock for 2 to 3 hours. Strain through a fine
  sieve. There should be about 4 cups of strained stock. If there is
  more, pour the stock into a saucepan and boil atop the stove until
  reduced to 4 cups.
  
  3. In a saucepan, cook shallots in 1 tablespoon butter until
  softened. Add cherries and cover with red wine. Raise heat and boil
  wine until almost completely evaporated. Add strained squab stock and
  cook at a brisk simmer until reduced to sauce consistency, about 2
  cups. This will take an hour or more. Season to taste with salt and
  pepper.
  
  (Recipe may be done ahead to this point. Let sauce cool, cover
  surface with plastic wrap and refrigerate. Return squab and sauce to
  room temperature before continuing.)
  
  4. Peel salsify, placing peeled stalks in water with 2 tablespoons
  lemon juice or white vinegar. Slice salsify crosswise into thin
  rounds and dry on paper towels. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a large
  sauce pan. Add salsify and turn to coat with butter. Add  1/2 cup
  reserved stock and simmer until salsify is tender. Keep warm.
  
  5. Return oven to 450 degrees. Place remaining 2 tablespoons butter
  and 1 tablespoon oil in an oven-proof skillet large enough to hold
  the squab pieces in a single layer. (If necessary, use 2 skillets.)
  Brown pieces on all sides, then remove breast pieces. Place skillet
  in the oven and cook legs for 5 minutes. Add breast meat and cook for
  3 to 5 minutes, or until medium rare. Remove from oven and let meat
  rest, loosely covered for about 5 minutes. (If using Cornish game
  hens, cook until completely done.)
  
  6. Meanwhile, return salsify to the heat. Add spinach and remaining
  1/4 cup stock, cover pan and steam, tossing once or twice, until
  spinach is completely wilted. Season to taste with salt and pepper.
  
  7. Make a bed of spinach and salsify in the center of each plate.
  Pour or spoon cherry sauce around the spinach bed and arrange 2 squab
  breasts and 2 legs atop sauce on each plate. Serve with a sangiovese
  wine such as Atlas Peak.
  
  Posted By japlady@nwu.edu (Rebecca Radnor) On rec.food.recipes or
  rec.food.cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CANNING HOT PEPPERS
 Categories: Vegetables, Hot/spicy, Can/preserv
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 c  Hot peppers, any kind
           Olive oil, extra virgin
      1    Garlic clove, chopped (opt)
      6    Drops lemon juice (opt)
 
  Hot tomales!!! Turn them into hot pimentos. Split and remove seeds and
  veins and stems, Saute'  with garlic in extra virgin olive oil until
  tenter but not brown, pack still hot peppers tightly into jar leaving
  1/2 inch headroom. Meanwhile heat 1 cup E V olive oil in sauce pan to
  300 degrees, using a pointed knife pierce a hole down the center of
  the peppers to the bottom of the jar, pour the hot oil into this hole
  a little at a time to avoid boil over, fill the jar to 1/4 inch from
  the top slowly. Wipe the jar top and sides with a paper towel and
  apply the cap tightly.
  
  No further processing is needed. The jarred product is shelf stable
  (check for the requisite depressed lid). Be sure to sterilize the lid
  at the very least, the hot oil will sterilize the jar and peppers.
  
  I call this in the jar processing.            Pierre!!!!
                   PIERRE LARUE
                                   Prodigy BB 11/09/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Turtle and Ham Soup
 Categories: Game, Soup/stew, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Turtle meat
      2 tb Flour
      1 ea Ham, small piece
      1 ea Lemon, piece
      1 x  Onion, chopped
      1 x  Cloves
      1 x  Garlic
      1 x  Bay leaf
      1 x  Thyme
      1 x  Parsley
      1 x  Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Cut ham into bits; mash herbs and seasonings with it, and put them
  aside. Boil turtle meat 15 minutes. Remove from heat and save the
  stock. Chop up the meat. Brown onions in lard or vegetable oil; add
  turtle meat and brown well. Then add ham and seasonings, stirring
  constantly. Add stock and 2-1/2 to 3 quarts water with salt and
  various peppers (to taste) and also the lemon, chopped very fine.
  Cook for an hour or so stirring frequently. Types of turtle:
  Softshell, snapper (Loggerhead or Alligator) or Mobilian. Also for:
  Substitute Alligator meat for turtle. Recipe date: 11/30/87
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken and Zucchini Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
      1 lg Chicken (about 3 1/2 lbs)
      2    Onions; unpeeled, halved
      2    Garlic cloves
      2    Whole cloves
      2 lg Carrots; peeled, chopped
      2 lg Celery ribs; chopped
      1 md Turnip; peeled, chopped
      1 lg Parsnip; peeled,chopped
      3    Parsley sprigs plus 1/4 cup
           Parsley; chopped
      1 sl Lemon
     10    Peppercorns
      1 ts Salt
      3 c  Chicken stock
      1 lb Sweet Italian sausages cut
           Into 1 inch pieces
      1 c  Pasta shells
      2 md Zucchini; grated (abt 2/3#)
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
     Place the chicken in a 6-quart pot.  Add all the ingredients
  through the parsnip, plus the parsley sprigs, lemon slice,
  peppercorns, and 1 tsp salt. Add the chicken stock and enough water
  to cover the chicken by 2 inches. Heat to boiling, skimming any
  residue as it gathers. Reduce the heat and simmer, partially covered,
  1 hour.
     Remove the chicken from the stock and set the stovk aside. Allow
  the chicken to cool enough to handle, then carefully remove the meat
  from the bones and cut it into bite-size pieces. Cover and reserve.
  Return the bones and skin to the stock.  Returen it to the boil;
  reduce the heat and simmer, uncovered, 45 minutes. Strain the stock
  into another pot, pressing the vegetables gently with the back of a
  spoon to release their juices. Meanwhile, saute the sausage
  
  pieces in a lightly oiled heavy skillet until well browned, about 8
  minutes.  Drain on paper towels.  Add the sausages to the stock. Heat
  to boiling; reduce the heat. Simmer, uncovered, skimming any fat that
  rises to the surface, for 20 minutes. Add the pasta shells; cook 10
  minutes longer. Add the zucchini and the reserved chicken; cook 5
  minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste, and sprinkle with the chopped
  parsley.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: South American Potato Platter JJGF65A
 Categories: Soup/stew, So. america, Salsa/sauce, Potatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 c  Chicken broth
      2 lb Potatoes,cut 1"cubes
      2 x  Lemons halved
      3    Fresh or can,jalepenos qrted
      1 tb Ground cumin
    1/2 lb Boneless,skinless chicken br
           Small bunch cilantro
      2 c  Diced tomatoes
    1/4 c  Fresh or can,diced,mild
      1    Green chilies
      1 tb Chopped cilantro
      1 tb White wine vinegar
    1/4 ts Each,salt and pepper
 
      To prepare potatoes and chicken,in large saucepan or dutch oven
  combine broth,potatoes,lemons,jalapeno peppers,and cumin.Bring to
  boil,reduce heat and simmer
    8 minutes.Add chicken;simmer about 7 minutes until
    potatoes are tender and chicken is cooked.Remove from heat;add
  cilantro bunch to sauce pan.Cool potatoes and chicken in broth 30
  minutes.
      Meanwhile,make   salsa.In small bowl,combine remaining
  ingredients.Drain potatoes and chicken,reserving 1 cup of broth.To
  assemble,mound potatoes in center of large platter.Shred chicken and
  arrange on platter.Pour 1/2 cup broth over potatoes,serve remaining
  sauce on side.     Arrange accompaniments on platter.Accompaniments
  can include any of the following:3 hard cooked eggs,quartered;1 red
  bell pepper,julienned;1 cup   pimento stuffed green olives;6 whole
  green onions;crumbled feta cheese;raisins;peanuts;sour cream and
  tortilla chips. Serve immediately with salsa   on the side.Makes 4 to
  6 servings
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CITRUS SOUP FRAPPE -P  I.E.S.JJGF65A
 Categories: Soup/stew, Jewish, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Red wine
      1 c  Orange juice
    3/4 c  Raspberry juice
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 c  Sauterne
      2 tb Kirsch
      1    Dash of salt
      1    Nut Nutmeg to taste
      1 c  Orange sections
 
  Soften:     1 1/2 tb unflavored gelatin. in: 1/4 cup red wine.
   Dissolve mixture over hot water: Stir in;strained: 1 cup orange juice
                        3/4 cup raspberry juice
                        1/4 cup lemon juice
                Add:    1 cup sauterne
                        2 tbs. kirsch ?
                          Dash of salt
                          nutmeg to taste
                          1 cup orange sections I must confess at this
  moment in time I do not know what kirsch is.If some one knows I would
  appreciate being enlightened.
     Robbie I never tried making this soup.It really isn't something I
  would enjoy.I sent it along because,the authors of the book are
  infallable.Nothing the bride or I have made following there recipe to
  a "T" has been anything other than delicious.I would be interested in
  knowing your taste bud's reaction to said recipe.I am at a loss as to
  what kirsch is.Maybe Elaine,or Barb. might know.. Irwin E.In South
  Jersey
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cabbage Soup   I.E.S.JJGF65A
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables, Jewish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------MAMA LEAH'S JEWISH KITCHEN----------------------
      2    Onions,coarsely chopped
      1    Carrot,peeled sliced thin
      6 c  Beef broth(can use boul cube
      1    Small head cabbage
    1/2 c  Sauerkraut,rinsed under cold
           Running water and chopped
      1    Ripe tomato,peeled chunked
      1 c  Canned Italian,tomatoes cut
           Into chunks
      1    Clove garlic,crushed
      2 c  Water
           Salt if necessary
           Lemon wedges,optional
 
      Saute onions and carrot in corn oil in the bottom of a 5 quart
  soup kettle,until softened,about 10 minutes.Combine with remaining
  ingredients, (except lemon wedges)and simmer over low
  heat,covered,but with lid askew for 50 minutes.Taste for salt and
  serve in hot bowls.Serve with lemon wedges if desired....This is not
  my favorite cabbage soup...
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BORSHT - CABBAGE/BEET SOUP@***BGMB90B
 Categories: Soup/stew, Jewish, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Med Cabbage
      3 c  Garlic
           Beet; bunch
           Carrot; few
      1    Lg Onion
           Celery
      3 lb Bone; meat/marrow bones
           Lemon; (fresh, frozen juice
 
  This is a hearty sweet and sour meat sup that can be used as a main
  dish. oup.   Bubbies  measurements were never exact. You need to
  taste. Put meat and bones in a 8 or 12 qt stock pot. Put in cans of
  tomato, cover with water and bring to a boil. In the meantime, get
  your veggies ready. Slice beets and carrots, others go in whole. When
  stock boils, skim off top. Put in beets, carrots, garlic, and other
  veggies. Turn heat down to a simmer and keep lid on askew. After
  about an hour, put in garlic and sugar. I have used Sweet and Low.
  Amounts are a matter of preference. It should have a rich, sweet and
  sour taste. I break up the meat and stir it back into the soup before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tom Yum Goong Hot&sour Shrimp Soup***(hkrt62b)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Raw shrimp; peeled and devie
      7 c  Water
      1 tb Fish sauce
    1/8 ts MSG; OPTIONAL
      1    Stalk lemon grass; 1" pcs.
      1    Fresh tomato; cut up bite si
      2    Fresh hot green chili pepper
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1    Green onion; 1" pcs.
    1/2 c  Chinese straw mushroom
      1 tb Thai"Nam Prig Pow"**
 
  2-3     ea Kaffir leaves; lemon leaves 2-3 ea fresh coriander;
  leaves-cut up *sliced **Thai chili in oil Wash shrimp and drain
  thoughly. Put water in a large sauce pan. Bring to a boil over high
  heat. Add shrimp and cook for 10-15 minutes. Add remaining
  ingredients EXCEPT FOR LEMON JUICE AND CORIANDER LEAVES. Simmer on
  low heat 8-10 minutes longer. Add lemon juice into the soup. Sprinkle
  with fresh coriander before serving. Serve with rice. FROM:    SOPIT
  MERRELL (HKRT62B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CREAM OF SPINACH SOUP:::GWHP32A
 Categories: Soup/stew, French
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Spinach;bunches/chopped
      5 c  Chicken broth
      3 tb Rice
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Curry powder;or to taste
    1/2 c  Cream
      2 tb Butter
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  VELOUTE D'EPINARDS AU CURRY In a soup pot, melt the butter and saute
  spinach until wilted. Add the chicken broth, rice, salt, pepper, and
  curry powder, and simmer 45 min- utes, uncouered. Pass the soup
  through a food mill and reheat. Add the cream and lemon juice. Do not
  allow the soup to boil after addinq the cream. To serve, you may
  sprinkle the soup with croutons, previously sauteed in butter From
  the recipes of Yvonne Boulleray Barb Day
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI SOUP FOR MARTY
 Categories: Soup/stew, Thai, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Cubed chicken breast
    1/2 c  Chinese straw mushroom
      4    To-5 c water
      1    Stalk of lemon grass-cut in
      1 pn Dry galanga
      1    Green onion-cut into 1" pcs
      1    Small fresh tomato cut up
      2    To-3 coriander leaves cut u
      1    Fresh green chili pepper-sl
      2 ts Fresh lemon juice
           Fish sauce or to taste
    1/4 ts Ground red cayenne pepper
      7    To-8 fresh mint leaves
 
  Directions: In a med sauce pan, cook chicken in boiling water for 10
  minutes. Add lemon grass and galanga and cook 7-8 minutes longer. Add
  remaining ingredients EXCEPT for the mint leaves and lemon juice, and
  simmer on low heat about 15- 20 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in
  lemon juice.  Sprinkle with mints. Serve hot with rice.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: NORTH WOOD CLAM CHOWDER
 Categories: Seafood, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Potatoes,peeled and cut into
           -1/2" cubes
      6 c  Chicken stock (You can use
           -canned chicken broth.)
      2    6 1/2 oz cans minced
           -clams,drained - save liquid
      1 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 md Onion,diced
      1    6 oz pkg. fresh
           -mushrooms,sliced in three
           -pieces lengthwise
  4 1/2 tb Butter
    1/3 c  Flour
      3    Bay leaves
  1 1/2 c  Whipping cream
  2 1/2 c  Cooked wild rice
    1/2 ts Pepper
 
  Salt to taste Golden sherry
  
  Saute onions and mushrooms in butter until onions are clear. Put
  potatoes,broth,clam liquid and lemon juice in a 6 qt. soup pot.Boil 20
  minutes.Add flour to onions and mushrooms,stir until smooth. Add onion
  mixture to soup pot.Toss in bay leaves and pepper, add salt to
  taste,cook for 10 minutes.Stir often.Add clams,cream and wild
  rice.Heat - stirring constantly.Just before serving add sherry to
  taste.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GENTLE LENTIL SOUP
 Categories: Soup/stew, Ethnic, Vegetables, Kids
      Yield: 16 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Lentils, rinsed and drained
      7 c  Water or stock
      2 md Onions, chopped
      3    Cloves garlic, minced
           Juice of one lemon
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2    Stalks celery, chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
      1    Or 2 bunches spinach, chard,
           -or collards, washed and
           -chopped
 
  From "Meals Without Squeals" by Christine Berman & Jacki Fromer.
  
  coarsely
  
  1.  Saute onions, garlic and celery in the olive oil, 5-10 min.
  
  2.  Add lentils, and water or stock and simmer until lentils are very
  soft. If necessary, add more water to get soup to desired consistency.
  
  3.  Add greens, salt and pepper.  Simmer for 10 more minutes or until
  
  greens are tender.
  
  4.  Stir in lemon juice right before serving.
  
  Serves 16 preschool or 12 school-age children. 1 meat alternative
  
  Posted by Theresa Merkling.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Broccoli Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------LIZ JONES VXRF36B--------------------------
      1    Lemon
      1 tb Vegetable oil
      4    Skinned/boned chicken breast
           -halves
     10 oz Cream of broccoli soup
    1/4 c  Milk
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  1. Cut 4 thin lemon slices; squeeze 2 teaspoons juice from remaining
  lemon. Set aside. 2. In skillet, in hot oil, cook chicken 10 minutes
  or until browned.  Remove; set aside. Spoon off fat. 3. In skillet,
  combine soup, milk, reserved lemon juice and pepper. Heat to boiling.
  Return chicken to skillet; top with lemon slices. 4. Cover; cook over
  low heat 5 minutes or until chicken is no longer pink, stirring often.
   Garnish with fresh thyme,  if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tayleea Cheecha (Romulan Beef & Fruit Stew)
 Categories: Meats, Fruit, Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 tb Cooking oil
  1 1/2 lb Stew beef
      1 c  Apple cider
      1    Onion; cut into chunks
    1/4 c  Raisin; or 8 pitted prunes
      1 cn Mushrooms (4 oz); undrained
     16    Dried apricot halves
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1    Slice of lemon
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb Water
 
  Heat the oil in the pan and brown the beef chunks all over. Add the
  cider and reduce the heat until the contents of the pan are just
  simmering. Add everthing else except the cornstarch and the water.
  Simmer for about 2 hours, or until the meat is quite tender. Then mix
  the cornstarch in the water and add it to the meat mixture. Cook for
  a few more minutes until the sauce is thickened. Serve with either
  hot buttered rice or boiled potatoes with parsley and brown butter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PLANTATION STEW
 Categories: Meats, Soup/stew
      Yield: 7 servings
 
  3 1/2 lb Lamb-stew meat
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      6    Potatoes-cubed
      2    Red bell peppers,diced
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Thyme
      1 tb Vinegar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Orange juice
      1 tb Lea & perrins
      1 tb Parsly-chopped
    1/4 c  Sherry
      2 qt Chicken stock
 
  Heat oil and saute lamb till brown on all sides add the stock and
  simmer for 2 hours add the remaining ingredients,expect for the shery
  simmer for 1/2 hour more,add the sherry just before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI HOT & SOUR SHRIMP SOUP* BWHT68A
 Categories: Thai, Soup/stew, Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  Shrimp, pld and deveined
  3 1/2 c  Water
      4    Kaffir lime leaves (Bai Magr
      2    Stalks lemongrass, cut 1"
           Pces & smashed. Use 2" frm
           Base only. Discard leaves
    1/2 c  Cnd straw mushrooms,or fresh
      2 tb Lime juice
      3 tb Fish sauce (Nam Pla)
      1 ts Thai red curry paste
      2 ts Or tst, slcd rd & grn chilis
      1 tb Chopped cilantro leaves
 
  *Tom Yum Goong DIRECTIONS: In a medium saucepan, bring water to a
  boil over high heat. Stir in the curry paste, lime leaves and
  lemongrass. Bring to a boil again and add shrimps and mushrooms. Cook
  just until the shrimps are done but not overcooked. Stir in fish
  sauce and remove from heat. Spoon the soup into a serving bowl and
  add lime juice, stir to mix well. Sprinkle chilies and cilantro
  leaves before serving. Serve hot with cooked rice. Makes 2 servings.
  NOTE: Boneless chicken pieces may be used instead of shrimps. Omit
  the chilies if desired. Additional fish sauce may also be added to
  the soup at the table. From Gail Shimizu. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI CHICKEN & COCONUT SOUP VMXV03A
 Categories: Thai, Soup/stew, Poultry
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           -MICHAEL KEAN VMXV03A
      2 c  Cnd low salt chicken broth
      1 cn 14 oz unswtnd coconut milk
    1/2 c  1/4 in slcs frsh lemongrass
      1    Lge chicken breast half,
           - with skin and ribs
      1 tb (or more) lime juice
    1/2    Jalapeno chili, minced
           Finely chopd frsh cilantro
 
  Bring first 3 ingredients to boil in heavy medium saucepan. Reduce
  heat, add chicken and simmer until almost cooked through, turning
  occasionally, about 12 minutes. Transfer chicken to plate; cool.
  Remove chickenskin and bones. Cut meat into 1/2 inch pieces.
    Strain soup through sieve into small saucepan. Add 1 T lime juice
  and jalapeno to soup and simmer until reduced to 2 cups, about 20
  minutes. Add chicken and simmer just to heat through. Taste, adding
  more lime juice if desired. Ladle soup into bowls. Sprinkle with
  fresh cilantro. From Bon Appetit, June, 1992. MM format by Mike Kean.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI COCONUT CHICKEN SOUP* JCMJ43F
 Categories: Thai, Soup/stew, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Boneless chicken breasts,
           -cut into bite size pcs.
    1/3 c  Galangal finely sliced
      3 c  Chicken broth
      2 tb White or brown sugar
      1 tb Fish sauce
  2 1/2 tb Lemon or lime juice
    1/2 c  Cilantro leaves (for topping
    1/2 tb Thai chili paste (Pik Pou)
    1/2 c  Button mushrooms finely slic
      1    16 oz can of coconut milk
 
  *Tom Kah-Kai In a large pot add the chicken broth, coconut milk and
  galangal.  Bring to boil (350F.) stirring for 1 min making sure that
  the coconut milk and the chicken broth are mixed well. Next add the
  chicken breasts and stir for 1 more minute. Now add in the remaining
  ingredients and stir for 1 more minute. Remove the soup from the heat
  and pour into individual soup bowls and topping with the cilantro
  leaves. If you want your soup spicier, top with sliced serrano
  chilies. Posted by Alex Williamson. MM:MK VMXV03A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOUR SHRIMP SOUP
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Thai
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -O.Evans VPRJ01A
      1    Slice dried galanga, soaked
           For 20 minutes
      3    Stalks fresh lemon grass,
           Bruised
      2    Kaffir lime leaves
      2 md Stalks coriander with roots
      5    Guinea peppers lightly
           Pounded w/ mortar
      1 tb Roasted chili sauce
      6 c  Chicken stock
     10 oz Med shrimp, shelled
      1 oz Straw mushrooms
      2 tb Fish soy
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
           Lemon juice
 
  Place all soup ingredients except last 3 in a pot over medium heat
  and boil for 5 minutes.  Add the shrimp and mushrooms and just return
  to a boil. Mix in seasonings. Garnish with green onion
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THAI TOMATO FISH SOUP
 Categories: Soup/stew, Seafood, Thai
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -O.Evans VPRJ01A
      2    15 oz cans stewed tomatoes
      5 oz White flesh fish; cooked
      3 c  Coconut milk
    1/2 ts Red curry paste
      2 tb Fish soy
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Fresh coriander; chopped OR
           Green onion; chopped
 
  Puree the tomatoes in a food processor.  Set aside. Then puree the
  fish with the coconut milk.  Put tomatoes, blended fish and coconut
  milk, curry paste, fish soy, and lemon juice in a soup pot. Bring to
  a boil over medium heat, reduce heat to low, and simmer for 10
  minutes. Sprinkle with fresh coriander leaves or chopped green onion
  tops before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TOM YUM GAI
 Categories: Soup/stew, Poultry, Seafood, Thai, Asian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           -RJHV41A

MMMMM------------------------P & C PASTE-----------------------------
      1 tb Whole black peppercorns;
      3    Garlic cloves; chopped fine
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
           -roasted
      2 ts Salt
      2 c  Coriander; coarsly chopped

MMMMM----------------------------SOUP---------------------------------
      6    Chicken drumsticks; skinned
      1 ts Chopped garlic
           -and sliced
      6 c  Good chicken stock
           -Kaffir lime leaves -
    3/4 c  Chopped onions or shallots -
      3    Slices fresh or frozen
      2    Stems lemon grass;
      2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Lime juice
           -sliced fresh chillies for
           -- NOTE1
      3    Or 4 red chillies; seeded
      1 tb Pepper and Coriander Paste
      2    Fresh, frozen, or dried
           -NOTE2
           -NOTE3
           -galangal (Kha) - NOTE4
           -finely sliced
      2 tb Fish sauce (Nam Pla)
           Chopped fresh coriander and
           -garnish
 
  (Thai Chicken in Lemon Grass Soup) This is from Charmaine Solomon's
  newest publication: THAI COOKBOOK.
  
  TO MAKE PEPPER AND CORIANDER PASTE: This is a basic Thai flavoring
  and will make about one cup which you can store in your fridge. You
  will use about one teaspoon of it in the Tom Yum Gai. In a dry
  skillet, dry roast about one Tbs whole black peppercorns for a minute
  or two.
   In your blender whizz up the peppercorns together BGMB90B
  =============== Reply  112 of Note    1 =================
  
  BOARD:      FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE SUBJECT: R-MM THAI
  AND VIET R
  
  TO:                ALL                   DATE:    07/16 FROM: BGMB90B
  ELAINE RADIS          TIME:     6:36 PM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Rice Salad New Orleans
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 pk Frozen cooked shrimp,(8oz)
      3 c  Cooked rice,cooled
    1/2 c  Minced sweet pickles
    1/4 c  Diced pimiento
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 x  Crisp salad greens
      1 cn Tuna,drained(6oz)
    1/2 c  Minced onions
  1 1/2 c  Thinly sliced celery
      3 ea Hard-cooked eggs,chopped
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      1 x  Tomato wedges(optional)
 
  1. Combine all ingredients except greens and tomato wedges; season to
  taste and chill.
  2. Serve on salad greens; garnish with tomato wedges if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Okra Salad with Oil and Vinegar Dressing
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 cn Whole okra,drained(15oz)
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 x  Salt to taste
      2 ts Minced onion
      1 ts Minced parsley
      2 ea Tomatoes,cut into eighths
      1 x  Salad greens

MMMMM------------------OIL AND VINEGAR DRESSING-----------------------
    1/2 c  Salad oil
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/4 c  Wine vinegar,red or white
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  1. Steam okra over boiling water 5 minutes; rinse with cold water and
  drain thoroughly.
  2. Place in bowl and sprinkle with onion, pepper, parsley and lemon
  juice; chill.
  3. to serve, mix lightly, then add tomato wedges.
  4. Spoon Oil and Vinegar Dressing over all and mix lightly; add salt
  to taste.
  5. Serve on salad greens.
  *** OIL AND VINEGAR DRESSING ***
  Combine all ingredients and shake vigorously. Store in refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GREEN CHARD AND SLIVERED CARROTS
 Categories: Vegetables, Salads, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Virgin olive oil
      1    Garlic clove; sliced
      2 sm Dried red chile peppers
           -=OR=- Double amount
      1 bn Swiss chard (about 1 1/2 lb)
      3 md Carrots
           Salt and pepper
           Vinegar
           -=OR=- Sliced Lemon Wedges
 
  This can be either a hot side dish or a room-temperature salad.
  
  WARM THE OLIVE OIL in a pan with the garlic and chile peppers. Once
  the garlic slices are brown, remove them and set the oil and peppers
  aside. Separate the chard stems from the leaves. Cut the leaves into
  large pieces and wash them. Trim the uneven ends off the stems. Then,
  to make the stems as tender as possible, peel off the thin,
  transparent outer skin from each stem. Catch the edge of a knife
  under the top layer of skin, and pull it down the length of the stem.
  It sometimes helps, especially if the stem is cured, to first cut the
  stem in half lengthwise. Peel both sides of the stems, cut them into
  2-inch lengths. Then lengthwise into narrow strips. Peel the carrots,
  slice them into long, 1/4-inch diagonals, then into narrow strips.
  Bring 4-to-5 quarts of water to a boil, and add 4 teaspoons of salt.
  Briefly cook the chard stems and the carrots separately until each is
  tender--about a minute for the carrots, 2-to-3 minutes for the chard.
  Remove them from the water and set them aside. Plunge the chard
  leaves into the water and cook until they are tender, 3-to-5 minutes,
  depending on the quality of the chard. When they are done, remove
  them to a colander. Press against the leaves with the back of a
  wooden spoon to get rid of the water then put them in a bowl with the
  stems and the carrots, and toss them with the olive oil. Season with
  salt and serve with vinegar or slices of lemon.
  
  DEBORAH MADISON - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yorakar
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM------------------VULCAN CRACKED WHEAT AND-----------------------

MMMMM----------------------VEGETABLE SALAD---------------------------
           -Jo Ferry cmsj69b
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Cracked quadrotriticale**
      1    Cucumber; medium
      6    Green onions
      2    Tomatoes
    1/2 c  Parsley; finely chopped
     12    Fresh mint leaves  OR
    1/2    Green pepper; chopped
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      4 tb Lemon juice  OR
      3 tb Wine Vinegar
    1/3 c  Olive oil
 
  **bulgur cracked wheat may be substituted.
    Bring 2 cups water to a boil in the saucepan and slowly pour in the
  quadrotriticale (or bulgur) so that the water keeps on boiling.
  Reduce the heat and simmer with the lid on for about 10 minutes, or
  until the water is all absorbed. Then take off the lid and cook for a
  few minutes more, stirring constantly, to dry it out a bit. Spread it
  on the sides and bottom of a large salad bowl so it can cool more
  quickly and put it in the refrigerator to chill it.
    Meanwhile peel and dice the cucumber, discarding the seeded center
  part if it is not firm. Clean and slice the green onions into 1/8"
  pieces, including abut 3" of the green tops. Cut the core out of the
  tomatoes and cut them into 1/2" chunks. Wash and chop the parsley.
  Chop the mint or the pepper, if you are using one of them.
    When the wheat is cool, break it up with a fork until it is loose
  and there are no chunks more than 1/2" in size. Add the vegetables to
  it and mix, then add the salt and pepper, lemon juice (or vinegar),
  and the olive oil. Mix again thoroughly.
    Note: It is traditional to add mint or green pepper to only a part
  of the salad when the host is not sure of all his guests' preferences.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot and Raisin Salad WW
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 c  Carrots; grated
    1/2 c  Crushed pineapple (no sugar)
      2 tb Raisins
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Low-fat yogurt
      2 tb Reduced-calorie mayo
      1 pk Equal (sweetener)
      2 ts Coconut; shredded
 
  In medium bowl, combine carrots, pineapple, raisin,s and lemon juice.
  Using a wire whisk-in small bowl combine remaining ingredients except
  coconut; pour over carrot mixture and toss until well coated. Cover
  bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. Just
  before serving, toss again and sprinkle with coconut. 1 serving=2
  vegetable, 1 1/2 fat. 1 fruit 1/4 milk 10 cal optional exchange 180
  calories. 4 g protein; 5 g fat; 32 g CHO; 96 mg calcium, 196 mg
  sodium. 7 mg chol.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLT Pasta Salad
 Categories: Salads, Meats, Pasta
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    7 oz. pkg elbow macaroni,
           -cooked and drained
      8 sl Bacon, cooked and crumbled
      1 c  Mayonnaise or salad dressing
    1/3 c  Chili sauce
    1/4 c  Lemon juice from concentrate
      2 ts Instant chicken bouillon
      2 ts Sugar
      1 lg Tomato, seeded and chopped
    1/4 c  Slice green onions
      4 c  Thinly sliced lettuce
 
  In large bowl, combine mayonnaise, chili sauce, lemon juice, bouillon
  and sugar; stir in macaroni, tomato and onions. Cover; chill. Just
  before serving, stir in lettuce and bacon. Refrigerate leftovers.
   Pat Empson 05/25 09:52 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/25 10:09 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  R-MM-MIXED BAG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple & Grape Salad
 Categories: Fruit, Salads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Apples; cubed
      1 c  Grapes; halved
    1/2 c  Celery; chopped
    1/4 c  Walnuts; chopped
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Sour cream
    1/3 c  Plain yogurt
 
  In large bowl, combine apples, grapes, celery, walnuts and lemon
  juice. Mix yogurt and sour cream. Mix lightly into fruit mix.
  Refrigerate. If desired, serve on lettuce lined plates.
   Pat Empson 05/21 07:42 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/21 9:43 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Waldorf Mold
 Categories: Salads, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 pk (3-oz) Lemon; Mixed
           -Fruit, or
           -Pineapple-Grapefruit
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Boiling water
    3/4 c  Boiling water
      2 ts Vinegar
    3/4 c  Finely diced celery *
      1 c  Diced red apples
    1/4 c  Chopped walnuts
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise (optional)
 
   *or use 3/4 cup halved seeded or seedless red grapes
  
   This tasty salad is a lovely luncheon entree with cold cuts and hot
  muffins.
   Makes 3 1/2 cups, or 6  side salads or 3 entree servings.
   Dissolve Jell-O and salt in boiling water.  Add cold water and
  vinegar. Chill until very thick.  Fold in celery, apples, walnuts and
  mayonnaise. Spoon into individual molds or a 1-quart mold. Chill
  until firm. Unmold and serve with cheese balls if desired.
   CHEESE BALLS Shape a 3-oz package cream cheese into 12 small balls.
  Roll in chopped nuts.
   EASY WALDORF MOLD Dissolve 1 package (3-oz) Lemon, Lime, or Mixed
  Fruit Jell-O in 1 cup boiling water; then add 3/4 cup cold water.
  Chill until very thick. Then fold in 1 1/2 cups prepared Waldorf
  salad (homemade or commercial).  Pour into a 1-quart mold. Chill
  until firm.
   Pat Empson 05/24 11:15 am
         FOOD AND WINE BB TOPIC: FOOD SOFTWARE TIME: 05/24 11:30 AM
  
  TO:      PAT EMPSON   (PFXX29A) FROM: PAT EMPSON (PFXX29A) SUBJECT:
  MM-MORE APPLES
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BROCCOLI AND PEA PRIMAVERA
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------JOYCE BURTON, PDPP83A------------------------
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Rice wine vinegar
      2 ts Rice wine vinegar
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Low-sodium soy sauce
    1/8 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Olive oil
      2 c  Carrots; thinly sliced
      4 c  Broccoli florets
      2 c  Shredded red cabbage
      1 c  Fresh or thawed frozen peas
 
  1. To prepare dressing, in small bowl, whisk together lemon peel,
  lemon juice, 2 teaspoons of the vinegar, the garlic, the soy sauce
  and pepper until blended. Slowly whisk in oil until smooth. In large
  saucepan of boiling water, cook carrots 4 minutes. Add broccoli
  florets; cook 2-3 minutes longer, until just tender. Drain and rinse
  with cold water. Place vegetables in large serving bowl. Add cabbage
  and peas to bowl. Add dressing; toss to mix well. Cover and
  refrigerate at least 2 hours, until well chilled. Toss with the
  remaining 1 tablespoon vinegar before serving. Each serving provides:
  4 V, 1/2 B. Per serving: 106 cal, 7 g pro, 1 g fat, 21 g car, 129 mg
  sod, 0 mg. chol. Source: Weight Watchers Magazine, August 1992.
  Formatted by Joyce Burton..PDPP83A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini and Carrot Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizers, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
      1 md Zucchini
      2 tb Oil
  1 1/2 ts Wine vinegar or lemon juice
        ds Salt
        ds Pepper
           Mixed herbs (opt)
      2 md Carrots
 
       Install medium slicer and feed zucchini into tube. Remove sliced
  zucchini and set aside.  Put oil, vinegar, salt, pepper and mixed
  herbs in work bowl. Peel carrots and put through shredding disk. Toss
  lightly with dressing. Mound shredded carrots on thinly sliced
  zucchini and chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mingle Mangle (Warm Zucchini Salad)
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
      1 tb Butter
      2    Shallots; minced
    2/3 c  Heavy cream
    1/4 c  Fresh basil;chopped plus 1TB
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Red wine vinegar
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
           Salt and pepper
    3/4 lb Zucchini; 1/8inch slices
      2 md Tomatoes;peeled,seeded,cubed
 
     Melt the butter in a large heavy skillet over medium heat. Add the
  shallots; cook 1 minute.  Add the cream and 1/4 cup basil. Heat to
  boiling; reduce the heat. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until thick,
  about 10 minutes.  Add the lemon juice, vinegar, hot pepper sauce,
  and salt and pepper to taste. Stir in the zucchini and toss it until
  well coated. Add the tomatoes; toss lightly. Sprinkle with the
  remaining 1 TB basil. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchini and Lemon Salad
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           EVA ESTES BXGT29B
      3 tb Butter
      1 tb Olive oil
      3 md Zucchini; sliced thin (1 lb)
      1    Red bell pepper; thin strips
      1 sm Onion; halved, sliced thin
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1 lg Tomato;peeled,seeded,cut
           Into thin wedges
        pn Oregano
    1/4 c  Parsley; chopped
      1 sm Lemon;peeled, seeded and cut
           Into paper thin slices
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
           Salt & freshly grnd pepper
 
     Melt 1 tbl of the butter in the oil in a large heavy skillet over
  medium heat.  Add the zucchini; cook, tossing constantly, until just
  wilted, about 3 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl. Add 1 Tbl butter
  to the skillet. Add the red pepper.  Cook over medium-low heat until
  almost tender, about 5 minutes. Add this to the zucchini. Add the
  remaining 1 Tbl butter to the skillet.  Add the onion; cook over
  medium-low heat for 1 minute. Add the garlic; cook 5 minutes. Add
  this to the zucchini mixture. Toss the tomato with the oregano in the
  skillet over medium-high heat for 1 minute. Add this to the zucchini
  mixture along with the parsley, sliced lemon, and vinegar.  Let
  stand, covered, 1 hour. Add salt and pepper to taste before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CREAMY WALDORF SALAD
 Categories: Fruit, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 lg Red apples; chopped
      1 c  Celery; chopped
    1/3 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  Sour cream replaces the mayonnaise that usually dresses this
  traditional American salad of crunchy apples, walnuts and celery.
  
  Combine sour cream, sugar, salt and lemon juice. Combine apples,
  celery and walnuts and fold in dressing mixture. Serve immediately.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FRUIT AND CABBAGE SALAD (KAL-OCH APPELSALLAD)
 Categories: Fruit, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Oranges; pared and sectioned
      2    Apples; chopped
      2 c  Green cabbage; shredded
           -(about 1/4 med head)
      1 c  Seedless green grapes
    1/2 c  Whipping cream
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise/salad dressing
 
  place oranges, apples, cabbage and grapes in bowl. Beat whipping
  cream in chilled bowl until stiff. Fold whipped cream, sugar, lemon
  juice and salt into mayonnaise. Stir into fruit mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPICED APPLE RINGS-1
 Categories: Diabetic, Low cal/fat, Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      6 md Apples;firm
           Sugar substitute to equal>>>
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      2    Sticks cinnamon
      3    Whole cloves
  1 1/2 c  Cranberry juice;unsweetened
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  Wash and core apples; slice unpeeled into thick slices. Place in flat
  pan. Combine remaining ingredients, and boil 5 minutes. Reserve 1/4
  cup juice mixture, and set aside. Pour remaining juice mixture over
  apple slices. Bake at 350 degrees for 45 minutes or until apples
  slices appear transparent; baste occasionally with the 1/4 cup juice
  mixture. Serve Hot or Cold as a garnish for your Salad. Or by itself:
  Yield: 12 - 1/2 cup serving. Each serving may be exchanged for: 1
  Fruit. Pat Empson 05/24 11:09 am 11:33 AM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: EMERALD SEAFOOD SALAD *
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Alcohol, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
    1/2 lb Scallops; washed well
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/4 c  Water
      1    Sprig parsley
    1/2    Bay leaf
    1/4 ts Dried thyme leaves
      2    Peppercorns
    1/2 lb Shrimp; cooked
      1 lg Red apple; skinned, cored,
           - and diced
    1/2 sm Sweet red onion; thinly slid
      2 lg Kiwi fruits; peel, sliced
    1/2 c  Walnut halves
      1    Bunch spinach; wash, trim

MMMMM--------------------VINAIGRETTE DRESSING-------------------------
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Place scallops in saucepan with wine and water. Put parsley, bay leaf,
  thyme and peppercorns in cheesecloth and tie together. Add to
  scallops in saucepan. Poach scallops gently over low heat for 5
  minutes. Remove scallops. Allow to cool. Combine scallops with
  shrimp, apple, onion, kiwi fruit and walnuts. Combine dressing
  ingredients in a screw top jar. Shake to mix. Pour salad dressing
  over salad. Toss well. Serve over a bed of spinach. Serve with fresh
  French bread.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE CIDER SALAD
 Categories: Fruit, Salads
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
      6 oz Package orange flavored
           -gelatin
      4 c  Apple cider
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Apples, coarsely chopped
      1 c  Celery, chopped
           Juice and grated rind of one
           -lemon
           Lettuce
      1    Apple, unpeeled and sliced
 
  Dissolve gelatin in 2 cups hot cider; stir in raisins. Let cool. Add
  remaining 2 cups cider; chill until consistency of unbeaten egg
  whites. Stir in chopped apples, celery, lemon juice and rind. Pour
  into a lightly oiled 6 cup mold. Chill until set. Unmold onto lettuce
  leaves and garnish with apple slices, if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE NUT SALAD
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
           -Don Fifield xkgr41a
      2    3 oz boxes lime gelatin
      4 tb Sugar
      3 c  Boiling water
      2    3 oz pkgs cream cheese;
           -softened
      2    Mellow apples; pared & diced
      4 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
 
  A refreshing molded salad to accompany holiday foods.
   Dissolve gelatin and sugar in boiling water; add cream cheese. Mix
  with electric mixer until cheese is completely dissolved. Chill until
  partially set. In the meantime, prepare apples and toss with half the
  lemon juice; reserve. Add apples, remaining lemon juice and nuts to
  thickened gelatin; pour into a 6-cup mold which has been lightly
  rubbed with mayonnaise. Chill until firm.
  
  Unmold early in the day; place on serving plate; wrap in plastic and
  return to refrigerator until ready to serve.
   Apple note:  Golden Delicious apples are best in this recipe as they
  hold their shape when baked.
         The Words Worth Eating Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLES AND CELERIAC W HONEY MUSTARD-DRESSING
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Don Fifield xkgr41a
      2 tb Apple-cider vinegar
      2 ts Coarse mustard
      2 ts Honey
      1    Shallot; chopped
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/4 c  Canola oil
      1    Celeriac root
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2    Green apples; shredded
    1/3 c  Nonfat yogurt
    1/4 c  Red onions; diced
      2 c  Spinach; shredded
      1 c  Radish; sliced
 
  Place the vinegar, mustard, honey, shallots, and pepper in a blender
  container. Process on high speed until well mixed. With the blender
  running, slowly pour in the oil to form an emulsion.
   Trim and wash the celeriac. Cut into a fine julienne and place in a
  lg bowl.  Add the lemon juice and combine well to keep the celeriac
  from discoloring. Mix in the apples, yogurt, onions, and dressing.
   Serve on a bed of spinach with the radishes.
   The Healing Foods Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE CIDER MOLD
 Categories: Fruit, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
      3 c  Apple cider
      2    Envelopes unflavored gelatin
    1/4 c  Sugar
      6 oz Frozen lemonade concentrate
      2 lg Apples, skinned and diced
    1/4 c  Chopped celery
    1/4 c  Slivered almonds
           Whipped cream for topping
 
  Mix 1 cup cider with gelatin in small pan. Let stand for few minutes.
  Add sugar and cook; stir until dissolved, remove from heat. Core and
  dice apples and mix with thawed lemonade concentrate to prevent any
  darkening. Lift out apples with slotted spoon and reserve. Stir
  lemonade and remaining cider into gelatin mixture. Regrigerate until
  thick and syrupy, then add apples and celery. Place almonds or other
  chopped nuts in bottom of 6 cup mold. Spoon gelatin over nuts, cover
  and chill firm. Dip mold to the rim in hot water for 5 seconds to
  invert onto serving plate. Surround with lettuce leaves and serve
  with whipped cream. Sour cream goes good with this too.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: WALDORF SALAD MOLD
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
      1 pk Lemon gelatin, 3 oz.
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Boiling water
    3/4 c  Cold water
      2 ts Vinegar
    3/4 c  Finely diced celery
      1 c  Diced red apples
    1/4 c  Chopped walnuts
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise (optional)
 
  Dissolve gelatin and salt in boiling water. Add cold water and
  vinegar. Chill until very thick. Fold in celery, apples, walnuts and
  mayonnaise. Spoon into individual molds or a 1 quart mold. Chill
  until firm. Unmold and serve with cream cheese or whipped topping.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: WALNUT APPLE SALAD
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
    1/4 c  Olive or vegetable oil
      2 tb Cider vinegar
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/2 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 c  Crumbled bleu cheese
      2 c  Broken lettuce
      1 c  Celery, sliced
    1/2 c  Walnuts, broken
    1/4 c  Raisins
      3 c  Eating apples
 
  Combine oil, vinegar, lemon juice, sugar, salt, Worcestershire sauce
  and bleu cheese in jar with tight-fitting cover. Shake well to blend;
  chill. Place lettuce in large bowl with celery, walnuts and raisins;
  cover and place in refrigerator to keep chilled until serving time.
  Wash, quarter and core apples; cut into bite-size chunks; add to
  salad bowl. Pour bleu cheese dressing over salad; toss lightly to mix.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Confetti Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Cider
    1/2 ts Salt
      3    Granny Smith apples
      2 c  Carrots; finely shredded
      1    Sweet red pepper; fine chop
      1 tb Scallion greens; minced
           Sugar; to taste (opt)
 
  Combine lemon juice, cider and salt in a non-reactive bowl.Peel an
  apple and grate it into the bowl,using the graters large holes so you
  get shreds rather than pulp.Discard core.Stir to coat shreds with the
  dressing so they don't brown,then repeat with the remaining apples..
  Toss the carrots,red pepper and chives.The salad tends to clump,so a
  large fork works better than a spoon.Let it sit for 10 minutes or so
  to develop flavor,then add sugar to taste.The amount needed will not
  be constant,since carrots and apples both vary greatly in
  sweetness.Makes 6 to 8 servings..
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summertime Shrimp Salad *
 Categories: Seafood, Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Miracle whip
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Dried chives; chopped
    1/2 ts Basil; crushed
    1/2 ts Salt

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp; cleaned, cooked
      2    Eggs; hard boiled, chopped
      1 c  Apples; chopped
      1 c  Celery; chopped
    1/2 c  Green onions; chopped
 
  Mix dressing, juice and seasonings in a large bowl. Add remaining
  ingredients; mix lightly. Cover and chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brown Rice Salad With Apples & Walnuts
 Categories: Salads, Rice, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Brown or long grain rice
  2 1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
      1    Celery rib; sliced
      4    Scallions; thinly sliced
      1 c  Raisins
      1 md Red apple; diced
      1    Grated rind 1 lemon
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2    Garlic cloves; pressed
    1/4 ts Salt
           Fresh black pepper to taste
    1/3 c  Olive oil
           Green-leaf lettuce (opt)
 
  Put Rice in medium sauce pan along with water, oil, and salt. Cover,
  bring to a boil, and reduce the heat to simmer. Cook for 45 minutes
  or until the rice is tender and all the water has been absorbed.
  Meanwhile, combine the walnuts, celery, scallions, raisins, apples,
  and lemons rind in a large bowl. In a jar with a tight-fitting lid,
  combine the lemon juice, garlic, salt, pepper, and olive oil and
  shake well. Pour half of this dressing on the apple mixture and toss
  well. When the rice is done, let cool until just warm. Combine with
  the fruit fruit mixture and pour on the remaining dressing. Let sit
  at least 1 hour before serving at room temperature, on a bed of
  lettuce if desired
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Dressing/Lo Cal *** (PNNN10B)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Chinese
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Beef ;  no-fat bouillon
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Ginger; grated
 
  Makes about 1/2 cup. Chill well and serve over greens or sliced cukes
  and tomatoes. FROM:    JEANETTE MURCH
    (PNNN10B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CAESER SALAD *** khgs55a
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Med Romaine
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese
           Pepper; to taste
      1 c  Croutons
      1 c  Garlic; crushed
      6    Anchovies
    1/4 ts Mustard,
    1/8 ts Worcestershire
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Olive oil.
      1    Egg
 
  Tear  washed and dried romaine into fork- sized pieces and place in a
  salad bowl.  Pour over dressing and toss lightly. Add cheese, pepper
  and croutons. Toss until well distributed. *LINDA HERSHFIELD (KHGS55A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Salad Dressing *** (hkrt62b)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Chopped garlic
      2 tb Fish sauce
      3 tb Ground roasted peanuts
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Water-
           Dash cayenne pepper
      1 ts Chopped coriander leaves
      1    To 2 red chilis, sliced
      2 tb To 3 tb white onions,
           -chopped
 
  *In a small sauce pan, cook sugar in water over med heat until it
  turns into a light syrup. Add all remaining ingredients, stir well.
  Let cool. Serve over salad. FROM:    SOPIT MERRELL   (HKRT62B)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moroccan Carrot and Orange Salad JJGF65A
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------A>COOK--------------------------------
      1 lb Carrots, shredded
      3 tb Olive oil
      4    Oranges, peeled
      1    Lemon, juice of
      1    Onion, sliced
    1/4 c  Walnuts, chopped
    1/2 c  Currants
           Pepper freshly ground
    1/4 ts Red hot pepper flakes
 
   1. Section the oranges (about 2 cups).
   2. Cut the onions into 2-inch lengths (about 2 cups).
   3. Soak the currants in water for 10 minutes and drain. 4. Put all
  the ingredients in a bowl and toss. Refrigerate for 1/2 hour or more
  before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cole Slaw...Justin Wilson
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      5 tb Mayonnaise, (heaping)
      1 ts Louisiana hot sauce
      2 tb Yellow mustard (heaping)
      2 tb Ketchup
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      1 ts Garlic salt
      1 tb Lea & Perrins
      1    Juice of mediums size lemon
      3 ts Salt (to taste)
      4    Bell peppers, sliced
      2    Onions, medium, shredded
      1    Large cabbage, shredded
 
  Put mayonnaise and mustard in a bowl large enough to hold complete
  mixture, but shaped so that the mixture can be beaten with a fork.
  Beat mayonnaise and mustard until combined. Add olive oil slowly,
  beating all the time. Beat until mixture has returned to the
  thickness of original mayonnaise. Add Louisiana hot sauce, continuing
  to beat. Add ketchup and keep beating. Add salt and garlic salt,
  beating all the time. Add wine vinegar (this will thin the sauce
  down). Beat this thoroughly, adding the lemon juice as you do so.
  Taste for salt and pepper. Place shredded cabbage, peppers, and
  onions in a large salad bowl. pour sauce over and toss well. This
  should be done about an hour before serving. Tastes even better the
  next day. From Justin Wilson's "Outdoor Cooking With Inside Help".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 0RANGE FRUIT SALAD *BTMF00B*
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Boiling water-divided
      1 pk (3 oz)lemon jello
      2 c  Ice cubes, divided
      1 pk (3 0z)orange jello
      1 cn (20 0z)crush pineapple *
      2 c  Min. marshmallows
      3    Lrg bananas sliced
    1/2 c  Fine shredded cheddar cheese

MMMMM-------------------COOKED SALAD DRESSING------------------------
      1 c  Reserved pineapple juice
    1/2 c  Sugar
           Egg,beaten
      1 tb Oleo
      1 c  Whipping cream
      2 tb Cornstarch

MMMMM-------------------MONA IN MI 2:56 PM ET------------------------
 
  *liquid drained * reserved.  In a mixing bowl, combine 1 c water &
  lemon jello. Add 1 c ice cubes, stirring until melted. Add pineapple.
  Pour into a 13"x9"x2" baking pan. refrigerate until set. Repeat with
  orange jello, with remaining ice & water. Stir in marshmallows. Pour
  over lemon layer; refrigerate until set. For dressing, combine
  pineapple juice, sugar egg, cornstarch & butter in a pan. Cook over
  med heat stirring constsntly until thick. Cover & refrigerate
  overnight. Next day, arrange bananas with whipped cream over jello.
  Combine dressng with whipped cream; spread over bananas, Sprinkle
  with cheese. Enjoy! 5/4
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BENIHANA SALAD DRESSING *** TVCV49A
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Dips/spread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Onion; chopped
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
      2 tb Rice wine vinegar
      2 tb Water
      1 tb Ginger root; chopped,
      1 tb Celery; chopped
      1 tb Soy sauce
  1 1/2 ts Tomato paste
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ds Salt & pepper
 
  Combine all ingredients in blender or food processor; process until
  almost smooth. Per serving: 91 calories, 3 g protein 9 g. fat, 2 g.
  carb., 230 mg. sodium. FROM: KAREN MINTZIAS (TCVC49A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CREAMY PEPPER DRESSING *** hhpd37a
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Mayo
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Water
      2 tb Parmesan, grated cheese
      1 tb Pepper; freshly grated grou
      1 tb Cider vinegar
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Onion;  finely chopped
      1 ts Garlic salt
 
  Whisk all ingredients until well combined and chill thoroughly before
  serving.  Makes 3 cups. FROM:    KIM GEORGE (HHPD37A)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tomatoes, Mozzarella and Basil (FJVM15A)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 lb Mozzarella cheese; low-fat
      3 ts Basil;
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/3 c  Olive oil
           Spinach leaves
           Black pepper
 
  Cut tomatoes in half, slice each half into 3 wedges. Cut cheese into
  1-inch cubes. Mix basil with lemon juice and olive oil, pour just
  enough over spinach to moisten. Arrange spinach on chilled salad
  plates. Toss cheese and tomatoes with remaining dressing, arrange
  over spinach. Sprinkle with black pepper.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC ROQUEFORT DRESSING (DGSV43A)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Roquefort (or Blue) cheese
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Lemon juice
    2/3 c  Salad oil
      2 tb Vinegar
 
  Mash cheese with a little oil. Add Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice,
  vinegar and balance of oil. Shake well until creamy. There are lots of
  recipes, but this is my personal favorite. Enjoy.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BUD'S CAESER SALAD DRESSING (FJSR05A)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
      6    Anchovey paste
     10 tb Extra virgin olive oil
      6 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Worchester sauce
      2 tb Red wine vinager
      4 tb Dijon mustard
      3 oz Egg substitute
 
  Mix all except egg subs well. Let stand at room temp. Wash 2 LARGE
  heads romaine lettuce inside leaves. Spin out water and put in towel
  in frig to crisp. Cut 9 slices of Sour dough french bread and butter
  both sides. Sprinkle garlic powder on one side & cut into bit sizes.
  Toast garlic croutons in 300 deg oven until crisp, about 25 minutes.
  Let cool to room temp. Grate a wedge of parmessan cheese, or cut into
  cubes & throw into blender. Assemble: Place cold crisp lettuce in
  large bowl. Pour egg sub in slowly while tossing. When well coated
  repeat process with dressing. When well coated repeat process with
  cheese & then croutons. Serve in large salad bowls with extra cheese
  on top with fresh ground pepper. Even my teenage kids eat this. By
  adding a broiled chicken breast to each serving, along with remaining
  sour dough bread, this becomes an entire meal.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SEA SLAW (FGDN81A)
 Categories: Side dish, Condiments, Salads, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp; fresh or frozen,
           Peeled and deveined
      4 c  Cabbage; shredded
           (about 1/2 medium head)
    1/4 c  Green onions; tops included,
           Sliced
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
      1 ts Sugar (optional)
      1 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Tabasco sauce
 
  Boil shrimp. Reserve a few whole shrimp for garnish and chop the
  remainder. In a bowl, toss cabbage, cooled shrimp and onions; set
  aside. In a small bowl combine mayonnaise, lemon juice, sugar,
  seasoned salt, mustard, worcestershire and tabasco sauce. Pour over
  shrimp mixture and toss to coat. Add salt to taste. Garnish with
  reserved shrimp and chill at least 6 hours (or overnight).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLUE CHEESE DRESSING (DGSK75A)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 20 servings
 
    1/2 lb Roquefort or Blue cheese
           (sharpest flavor)
      1 pt Hellmans or Best Foods
           Mayonnaise (regular)
    1/2 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Wine Vinegar
      2 tb Fresh Lemon Juice
           "Pinch" salt
      1 tb Sugar
    1/8 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1    Clove garlic; finely minced
    1/8    Large onion; finely minced
 
  The recipe for Blue Cheese dressing originated at the Waldorf-Astoria
  many years ago. It is very thick and chunky; use as a dip, on
  sandwiches and as a salad dressing. Crumble cheese by hand (chunky).
  Combine all ingredients. Add crumbled blue cheese. Beat mixture by
  hand until well-blended. Refrigerate 1-2 hours. This recipe makes
  about 1 quart. It will keep 10-14 days in refrigerator. I double the
  amount of blue cheese; I prefer the sharpest cheese available.
  Increase/decrease items to taste. ENJOY!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHICKEN/AVACADO RICE SALAD (PJXG05A)
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 pk Wild/brown rice mix; (cook)
      1    Large ripe avacado;
           Or two medium-size avocado
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      4    Scallions; chopped
     12    Pitted black olives; sliced
      3 c  Chicken; cooked, bite-size
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Dijon-style mustard
    1/2 c  Light vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 tb Fresh parsley; chopped

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Slivered almonds
           Or pine nuts; toasted
     12    Cherry tomatoes
 
  Refrigerate cooked rice until cold. Peel the avacado and slice
  lengthwise into 1/2 inch-thick strips. Coat with lemon juice, and
  refrigerate until well chilled. In a large mixing bowl, combine the
  scallions, olives, chicken and rice. Toss gently just until mixed. In
  small bowl, mix vinegar, mustard, veg. oil, sugar, and parsley. Whisk
  together vigorously until completely combined. Just before serving,
  add the avocado slices to the chicken and rice mixture. Pour on
  dressing and toss gently to combine thoroughly. Serve sprinkled with
  toasted nuts and cherry tomatoes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLACKENED CHICKEN WITH CAESAR SALAD (FDGN81A)
 Categories: Main dish, Salads, Poultry, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------FOR CHICKEN-----------------------------
      1    Bottle prepared Italian
           Dressing (8oz)
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      4    Chicken breasts halves;
           Skined and deboned
      1 tb Dried marjoram leaves
      1 tb Dried oregano leaves
      1 tb Dried thyme leaves
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper; freshly ground
    1/2 ts Ground red cayenne pepper
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine; melted

MMMMM-------------------------FOR SALAD------------------------------
      1 cn 2 oz Anchovies
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Fresh parsley; chopped
      1 ts Dijon style mustard
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Parmesan cheese;grated fresh
     10 c  Salad greens; mixed
 
  A celebrity dish by Burt Reynolds. BLACKENED CHICKEN Stir dressing
  and wine in shallow dish to blend; add chicken; marinate 1 hour,
  turning several times. Grind marjoram, oregano, thyme, salt, black
  pepper and ground red pepper to fine powder in coffee or spice
  grinder or mini chop food processor. Spread mixture on plate. Heat 12
  inch cast iron skillet over high heat until smoking, 5 to 10 minutes.
  Drain checken; dip into seasoning mixture to coat both sides, shaking
  off excess. Place in hot skillet; pour 2 T butter over each piece.
  Reduce heat to medium; cook chicken 3 to 5 minutes on each side until
  cooked through. Serve
  
  chicken, sliced, on top of caesar salad. CAESAR SALAD: Use a fork to
  mash the anchovies into a paste in a small bowl; stir in the lemon
  juice, worcestershire sauce, chopped fresh parsley, dijon style
  mustard, freshly ground black pepper and the crushed garlic. Whisk in
  the cup olive oil, slowly; stir in the freshly grated parmesan
  cheese. Pour the dressing over mixed salad greens in a large bowl;
  toss thoroughly to coat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TUNA TAPENADE (FGKG27A)
 Categories: Salads, Side dish, Fish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Capers; (or less)
      1 cn Tuna in oil (7oz), drained
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 tb Dark rum
      2    Cloves garlic; coarsely
           Chopped
      1 cn Pitted black olives (8oz)
           Fresh ground pepper
 
  Place all ingredients except olive oil) in a food processor and blend
  until smooth. Slowly add olive oil. Serve with fresh vegetables.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GINGER SALAD DRESSING (TCVC49A)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Japanese, Asian
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sesame or soy oil
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/3 c  Diced Onion
    1/4 c  Diced celery
      3 tb Rice wine vinegar; plus
      1 ts Rice wine vinegar
      2 tb Diced fresh ginger
      2 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/2 ts Catsup
    1/4 ts Black pepper
 
  Place all ingredients into blender or food processor and blend until
  vegetables are pureed. Store in covered jar. Shake thoroughly before
  using.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TABBOULEH (LEMON-PARSLEY SALAD) (NFXS18B)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Salads, Greek
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Bulgar wheat
    1/4 c  Hot water
      1    Medium yellow onion; grated
      2    Lg bunches parsley; finely
           Chopped (about 4 c)
      2    Ripe tomatoes; chopped
      1 tb Fresh mint; chopped
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ds Freshly ground black pepper
      1    Head iceberg lettuce;
           Separated into leaves
 
  1. In lg bowl mix bulgar with hot water; let stand 1 hr. Pound onion
  with pestle of back of heavy spoon into bulgar. 2. Mix chopped
  parsley, tomatoes, and mint into bulgar. 3. Combine lemon juice,
  olive oil, salt, and pepper and beat with fork until well blended.
  Pour over parlsey mixture and mix well. 4. To serve, place Tabbouleh,
  surrounded by lettuce leaves, on platter. To eat in the Lebanese
  manner, scoop up some Tabbouleh with lettuce leaf and eat with your
  fingers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LOVE 'EM AND LEAF 'EM (FGGT98B)
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------COMBINE AND MIX THOROUGHLY----------------------
    2/3 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Honey
      2 tb Half and half
      1 tb Prepared mustard
  1 1/2 tb Fresh lemon juice
    1/8 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Parsley; chopped

MMMMM----------------OPTIONAL INGREDIENTS TO ADD---------------------
    1/8 ts Curry
      1    Green onion; chopped
    1/2 ts Celery seeds
    1/2 ts Poppy seeds
    1/2 ts Sesame seeds
      2 tb Raisins
      2 tb Nuts, slivered almonds, etc
      2 ts Capers
      2 ts Black olives; chopped
 
  NOTE: You can garnish the greens to reflect your own intentions by
  combining common ingredients in an unusual way. A creative
  arrangement of olives and carrots could be mildly fliratious--or
  boldly suggestive, depending on how you slice them! Compose your
  salad to best express your desires, but keep it simple and make your
  own dressing, if possible. This recipe is a basic honey-lemon
  dressing whose variety is almost endless. Source: Cooking In The
  Nude--Quickies, c1984
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SMOKED TURKEY DELIGHT (XXXJ77A)
 Categories: Salads, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Lemon Juice
      2 tb Whipping Cream
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Wright's N.Hickory Seasoning
    1/4 ts Curry Powder
      1 ds Pepper

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      4 c  Smoked Turkey; cubed
      1 c  Seedless Grapes
    2/3 c  Sl. Water Chestnuts; halved
    2/3 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Celery; sliced thin
 
  Combine ingredients to make dressing, set aside. Combine the remaining
  ingredients. Pour dressing over turkey mixture and toss lightly. This
  recipe comes from a booklet "The Wright Choice".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHIFFONADE OF LOBSTER (KVNH17B)
 Categories: Salads, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Lobster meat
      1    Egg yolk
      1 tb White wine vinegar
      1 tb Dijon or Dusseldorf mustard
      1 tb Tomato paste
      1 ds Salt and pepper, to taste
    1/8 ts Cayenne or tabasco
      1 c  Salad oil
    1/2    Lemon
    3/4 ts Tarragon; freshly chopped OR
           1/4 t dried tarragon
      2 tb Cognac
    3/4 c  Tomato; seeded and cubed
     12    Romaine lettuce leaves
 
  Chop or shread the cooked lobster meat and refrigerate until dressing
  has been prepared. For the dressing, place the yolk in a mixing bowl
  and add vinegar, mustard, tomato paste, salt and pepper and cayenne.
  Gradually add the oil, beating vigorously with a wire whisk. Juice
  the lemon. Beat in the lemon juice, tarragon and cognac. Add lobster
  and tomatoes to the dressing and fold in with a rubber spatula. This
  may be done in advance and refrigerated for an hour or so. Prepare
  the salad: When ready to serve, stack crisped romaine lettuce leaves
  and slice them into fine shreads. Place shreads on individual salad
  plates. Top with lobster dressing and serve immediately. (You may
  substitute crabmeat or shrimp for the lobster.) A Craig Claiborne
  recipe.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CAESAR SALAD (BDGM08B)
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2    Head romaine lettuce
      4 oz Parmesan cheese

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      1 ts Grated lemon zest
      3 tb Lemon juice; fresh
      2 cl Garlic; minced
    2/3 c  Extra virgin olive oil
      1 ts Coarsely ground black pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts White wine vinegar; optional
 
  Wash and dry lettuce. Tear into bite-sized pieces. For dressing,
  combine the lemon zest, juice, garlic, and vinegar (if desired), salt
  and pepper in blender and mix. With blender on, slowly add olive oil,
  continuing to mix until well blended. Immediately before serving,
  pour dressing over lettuce. Add grated Parmesan cheese and mix well.
  From: "The New Basics Cookbook" by Julee Rosso and Sheila Lukins (The
  Silver Palaters)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus Lobster Salad **
 Categories: Seafood, Fruit, Salads, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3    8 oz lobster tails; fresh or
           - frozen
      1 md Pink grapefruit; peeled and
           - sectioned
      1 md Orange; peeled and sectioned
    1/4 c  Orange yogurt
      3 tb Orange juice
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 ts Grated orange rind
      1 ts Grated lime rind
    1/8 ts White pepper
      4 c  Fresh spinach leaves; torn
      2 ts Fresh chives; chopped
           Orange rind curls (opt)
 
  Cook lobster tails in boiling water 6-8 minutes or until done; drain.
  Rinse with cold water. Split and clean tails. Cut lobster meat into
  bite-sized pieces. Combine lobster, grapefruit sections and orange
  sections. Combine yogurt, juices and rinds with white pepper in a
  small bowl; stir with a wire whisk until well blended. Pour over
  lobster mix. Arrange spinach on individual serving plates. Top each
  serving with 1 cup of the lobster mix. Sprinkle with chives. Garnish
  with curled orange rind if desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruited Smoked Turkey Salad *
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Fruit, Pasta, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------

MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      6 oz Mostaccioli; uncooked
  2 1/2 c  Smoked turkey breast; cut in
           - strips
  1 1/2 c  Cantaloupe; cubed
    1/3 c  Green onions; sliced
  1 1/2 c  Strawberries; sliced
    1/2 c  Slivered almonds; toasted

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/2 ts Grated lemon peel
 
  To toast almonds, spread nuts on a cookie sheet; bake at 350~ for 5-10
  minutes or until golden brown, stirring occasionally.
   Cook mostaccioli to desired doneness as directed on package. Drain;
  rinse with cold water. In large bowl, combine all salad ingredients
  except strawberries and nuts; toss. In jar with a tight fitting lid,
  combine all dressing ingredients; shake well. Pour over salad; toss
  to coat. Cover; refrigerate 1-2 hours to blend flavors, stirring
  occasionally. Just before serving, gently stir in strawberries and
  almonds.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pine Nut Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Pasta
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Pine nuts
      2 tb Butter
    1/2 l  Alphabet pasta
    1/2 c  Parsley; minced
    1/3 c  Green bell pepper; chopped
    1/3 c  Red bell pepper; chopped
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           Freshly ground pepper
           Parmesan cheese; to taste
 
  In a large skillet, lightly toast the pine nuts in the butter; drain
  on paper towels and cool. Cook the alphabet pasta in boiling water;
  drain and rinse in cold water. (Be extra careful not to overcook the
  pasta.) Very gently, mix together all ingredients; cover and chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salad of Chicken & Melon *
 Categories: Salads, Fruit, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      3    Chicken breasts; whole,
           - boneless
      1    Cantaloupe
    1/2 lb Black grapes
    1/2 lb Asparagus
      1 c  Chicken broth
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
      3 tb Capers
      3 tb Parmesan cheese; coarsely
           - grated

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1    Garlic clove; crushed
 
  Cut cantaloupe into chunks. Halve and seed grapes. Trim asparagus,
  boil, steam or microwave until just tender. Cut asparagus into 2 inch
  lenghts. Combine broth, wine and garlic in a pan, add chicken; bring
  to a boil, reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes on each side, or
  until tender. Drain chicken, cool, and shred finely. Combine chicken,
  melon, grapes, asparagus and capers with dressing. Serve with
  parmesan cheese. Dressing: Combine all ingredients in a jar, shake
  well.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frozen Pineapple Salad
 Categories: Salads, Fruit, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Pineapple juice
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/8 c  Sugar
   1/16 ts Salt
      1    Egg
      2 tb Lemon juice
      4 sl Pineapple; cut fine
      2    Oranges
    1/4 c  Nuts; chopped
     10    Marshmallows
      8    Maraschino cherries
      1 pt Whipped cream
 
  Make a paste of flour and pineapple juice, then gradually add
  remainder of juice. Add butter, sugar and salt. Cook in top of double
  boiler for approximately 10 minutes. Add the egg, slightly beaten.
  Continue to cook for a few minutes, stirring occasionally; then cool
  and add lemon juice. Add pineapple, oranges, nuts, marshmallows and
  cherries; then fold in whipped cream. Pour into freezing tray and
  allow to freeze.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Layered Fruit Salad
 Categories: Fruit, Salads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Fresh peach slices OR
     16 oz Can sliced peaches,
           - drained
      2 c  Fresh blueberries
      2 c  Fresh strawberry slices
      2 c  Fresh green grapes
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
      1 c  Whipping cream
    1/4 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 c  Walnuts; chopped
 
  In a large glass bowl layer fruit in order given. In a separate bowl
  mix cream cheese, lemon juice and lemon rind. In another bowl whip
  cream just until peaks form; add powdered sugar and whip to stiff
  peaks. Fold cream cheese mixture and whipped cream mixture together.
  Spread over fruit and sprinkle with walnuts. Serve immediately or
  store, covered, in refrigerator.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pecan Cheese Salad *
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------PATTI - VDRJ67A---------------------------
      2 tb Knox gelatin
    1/4 c  Water; cold
      1 lg Pineapple in chunks; drained
           - reserve 1/2 cup juice
      1 c  Celery; sliced thin
      1 c  Pecans; chopped
      2 c  Cottage cheese
      1 c  Whipped cream
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 c  Mini marshmallows
           Juice of 1 lemon
 
  Dissolve Knox gelatin in cold water. Add 1/2 cup pineapple juice
  which has been heated. Mix all remaining ingredients together. Add
  gelatin mixture. Mix well. Pour into container of choice. Chill until
  set.
  
  Mom Anderson.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gingered Shrimp Salad
 Categories: Seafood, Salads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Shrimp, cooked
    1/4 c  Vinegar, white wine
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Sugar
      2 c  Celery
    3/4 c  Oil
      2 tb Water
  1 1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 c  Carrot
 
  Mix together all ingredients except shrimp and vegetables. Pour half
  over shrimp and half over the vegetables. Marinate for an hour, drain
  and serve over lettuce or sprouts.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Classic Cole Slaw
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Mayonnaise, Lt w/o Cholester
      2 tb Sugar
      6 c  Cabbage-shredded
    1/2 c  Green pepper-thin sliced OPT
      3 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Carrots-shredded
 
  Comdine first 4 ingredients. Stir remaining ingredients. Cover; chill.
  Makes 6 cups.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CRANBERRY-PINEAPPLE SALAD MOLD
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1 pk Gelatin,unflavored
           Water
      1 pk Gelatin,cherry(6oz)
      1 pk Gelatin,lemon/lime(6oz)
     12 oz Cranberries,fresh/frozen
      2    Celery stalks,medium
      1 cn Pineapple chunks,drain(17oz)
      1 c  Sugar
 
  1. In 4-quart saucepan, evenly sprinkle unflavored gelatin over 2 cups
  water; let stand 1 minute to soften gelatin slightly. Cook over medium
  heat, stirring frequently, until gelatin completely dissolves. Remove
  saucepan from heat; stir in cherry and lemon/lime flavor gelatin
  until they completely dissolve. Stir in 3 cups cold water.
  Refrigerate until mixture mounds slightly when dropped from a spoon,
  about 1 hour.
  2. Meanwhile, coarsely chop cranberries and mince celery; place in
  medium-sized bowl. Add drained pineapple and sugar, stirring until
  sugar completely dissolves.
  3. Fold fruit mixture into thickened gelatin. Pour into 10" Bundt pan
  or 12-cup mold. Cover and refrigerate until set, at least 3 hours.
  4. To serve, carefully unmold gelatin onto chilled platter.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PECAN ORANGE SLAW
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4    Oranges,small
      1    Cabbage head,small
    1/2 c  Pecans,chopped
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Peel oranges and cut into small pieces. Shred cabbage. Combine
  cabbage, orange pieces, and pecans. Mix remaining ingredients
  together, pour over slaw, and toss lightly. Cover and refrigerate
  20-30 minutes before serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MOLDED CUCUMBER SALAD
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Water,boiling
      2 pk Gelatin,lime-flavored (3 oz)
  1 1/4 c  Water,cold
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Onion juice
      1 c  Sour cream
  1 3/4 c  Cucmbers,peeled/seeded*
    1/4 c  Radishes,chopped
           Mayonnaise
           Cucumbers,peeled/sliced
 
  * - squeezeed dry in paper toweling.
  Pour boiling water over gelatin and stir until dissolved. Add cold
  water, lemon and onion juice. Chill until very thick. Stir in sour
  cream, then fold in cucumbers and radishes. Pour into a long, shallow
  pan that has been very lightly oiled with mayonnaise. Chill until
  firm. Cut into squares in pan and lift out onto chilled serving
  plate. Serve with mayonnaise and garnish with slices of cucumber.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GEORGIA WALDORF SALAD
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5    Apples,medium-sized
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Celery,diced
    1/2 c  Peanuts,chopped
    2/3 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Peanut butter
      1 ds Salt
           Salad greens
 
  Core and dice unpeeled apples. Toss with lemon juice. Add celery and
  nuts. Blend a small amount of mayonnaise into peanut butter, then
  blend mixture into remaining mayonnaise. Add salt and toss with first
  mixture. Serve on greens.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE-PECAN SALAD
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Gelatin,lemon-flavored (3oz)
  1 1/4 c  Water,boiling
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 c  Apples,tart,peeled/chopped
  1 1/4 c  Pecans,chopped
      1 pk Gelatin,orange-flavored (8oz
      1 c  Water,boiling
    3/4 c  Apple juice,canned
 
  1. Dissolve lemon gelatin in 1-1/4 cups boiling water; cool slightly.
  Combine sour cream, mayonnaise, sugar, and lemon juice. Blend mixture
  into lemon gelatin. Chill until slightly thickened, about 1 hour -
  and fold in apples and pecans.
  2. Meanwhile, dissolve orange gelatin in 1 cup boiling water. Add
  apple juice. Pour 2/3 cup of liquid into a 6-cup ring mold. Chill
  until set but not firm, about 30 minutes. Chill remaining orange
  gelatin mixture until slightly thickened.
  3. Spoon lemon gelatin mixture over orange gelatin in mold and top
  with remaining orange gelatin. Chill until firm - at least 4 hours
  but overnight if possible to insure a very firm salad and one that
  will unmold easily.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SORBET IN COOKIE TULIPS
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Various fresh fruit

MMMMM-----------------------COOKIE TULIPS----------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Sugar
      7 tb All-purpose flour
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Large egg whites

MMMMM--------------------GUAVA SORBET MIXTURE-------------------------
      3 c  Guava nectar
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Lime juice

MMMMM------------------PINEAPPLE SORBET MIXTURE-----------------------
      3 c  Fresh pineapple,peeled/cored
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Lemon juice

MMMMM--------------------MANGO SORBET MIXTURE-------------------------
      4    Medium-size mangoes
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
 
  Pour guava, pineapple, or mango sorbet mixture into an ice cream
  maker. Freeze as manufacturer directs. Use, or freeze airtight up to
  1 week. Maker 4 1/2 to 5 cups. Scoop into cookies; add fruit.
  
  *** COOKIE TULIPS ***
  1. In a bowl, beat butter and sugar until smooth. Mix in flour,
  vanilla, and egg whites until smooth.
  2. Bake 2 cookies at a time. Butter a 12x15" baking sheet. With
  fingertip, draw a 7" wide circle on 1 corner of sheet; repeat in
  opposite corner. In each circle, spread 3 tablespoons batter to fill
  evenly.
  3. Bake in a 350'F. oven until golden, 9-10 minutes. At once, lift
  cookies, 1 at a time, with wide spatula and drape each over a clean 1
  pound food can; gently pinch cookie sides to form a fluted cup.
  Repeat to make remaining cookies. If made ahead, store ahead up to 1
  day. Makes 6.
  
  *** GUAVA SORBET MIXTURE ***
  Mix guava nectar, corn syrup, and lime juice.
  
  *** PINEAPPLE SORBET MIXTURE ***
  In a blender or food processor, whirl pineapple chunks, corn syrup,
  and lemon juice until smooth.
  
  *** MANGO SORBET MIXTURE ***
  Peel, pit, and cut mangoes to make 3 cups chunks. In a blender or food
  processor, whirl fruit with corn syrup and lemon juice until smooth.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PINEAPPLE SORBET MIXTURE
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Fresh pineapple,peeled/cored
    1/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
 
  In a blender or food processor, whirl pineapple chunks, corn syrup,
  and lemon juice until smooth.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MANGO SORBET MIXTURE
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Medium-size mangoes
    2/3 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
 
  Peel, pit, and cut mangoes to make 3 cups chunks. In a blender or food
  processor, whirl fruit with corn syrup and lemon juice until smooth.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE SLAW
 Categories: Salads, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 md Or 4 small oranges
      1 sm Head cabbage (1 3/4 lbs)
    1/4 sm Onion
      1 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
 
  From: Arizona Cookbook
  
  Pell oranges and cut into bite-size pieces. Shred cabbage, using long
  blade on grater or cut finely with sharp knife. Chop onion finely.
  Place oranges, cabbage and onion in large serving bowl.
  
  Mix together mayonnaise, lemon juice, sugar and salt. Pour over slaw
  and mix lightly. cover and refrigerate 20 to 30 minutes before
  serving.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Salad w/Sun-Dried Tomatoes
 Categories: Tomatoes, Pasta, Salads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
    1/3 c  Oil-pk tomatoes; drain, chop
      1 tb Oil from tomatoes
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 cl Garlic; minced
      6 oz Jar marinated artichoke
           -hearts; drained
    1/4 lb Cashews; toasted
      1 lb Tortellini; freshly cooked
        x  Salt and pepper
 
  Combine 1 T marinade reserved from tomatoes, oil, lemon juice and
  garlic in large bowl. Stir in tomatoes, artichoke hearts and cashews.
  Add tortellini and toss thoroughly. Season with salt and pepper. Let
  stand 1 hour. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.
  Bring to room temperature before serving.) (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orzo Pasta Salad
 Categories: Tomatoes, Pasta, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      1 lb Orzo; cooked
    1/2 c  Dried tomatoes; plump in
           -warm water or
      2    Fresh creole tomatoes; chop
    1/2 c  Greek olives; pit, slice
    1/2 c  Artichoked hears; quartered
      1 sm Red or Vidalia onion; mince
      1    Red pepper; roast, cut strip
      2 ts Lemon thyme leaves; chop or
           -basil or rosemary
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
      4 tb Ex-virgin olive oil
      1 tb Italian parsley; roughly ch
           Salt and pepper
      1 lb Shrimp; cooked, optional
      1    Lemon; squeezed
 
  Put cooked pasta in bowl with other ingredients while still warm.
  Serve with bread and cheese. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-dried Tomato Dressing
 Categories: Tomatoes, Salads, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A
      8    Dried tomato halves
    1/4 oz Flat anchovy fillets
      2 cc 2
      2 tb Lemon juice
      4 ts Olive oil
    1/2 ts Low-sodium soy sauce
    1/4 ts Fresh ground pepper
 
  Soak tomatoes in boiling water to cover, 2 minutes. Drain and reserve
  water. In a mini processor, combine tomatoes, 2 T reserved soaking
  liquid, anchovies and garlic; process until finely chopped. Add lemon
  juice, oil, soy sauce and pepper; process until blended. Stir ini 2
  more T soaking liquid. Cover and refrigerate until ready to use. (wrv)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPICY SHRIMP AND PORK SALAD  (YAM VIETNAM)
 Categories: Salads, Vietnamese
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 ts Coriander seeds; ground
      3    Garlic cloves; minced
      1 ts Fresh ground black pepper
      3 tb Vinegar
      3 tb Lime or lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
    1/4 ts Dried ground chili peppers
      2 c  Cooked pork; cubed small
      1 lb Cooked shrimp; diced small
      1    Cucumber; peeled and sliced
      1 ts Mint
 
  Combine in a bowl the coriander, garlic, pepper, vinegar, lime juice,
  salt, sugar and chili peppers. Add the pork, shrimp and cucumber.
  Toss lightly. Sprinkle with the mint.  From AOL, June 1993.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SPAGHETTI SALAD  FBFJ97A
 Categories: Salads, Low cal/fat, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 oz Whole-wheat spaghetti
      1 ea Zucchine, thinly sliced
    1/4 c  Celery; chopped
      4 oz Mushrooms; thinly sliced
    1/3 c  Tomato juice
  1 1/2 ts Garlic/herb dressing mix;dr
      1 ts Oil
      1 ts Lemon juice
 
       Cook spaghetti according to package directions; don't overcook.
  Rinse with cold water; drain well.  Place zucchine, celery and
  mushrooms in a 2-qt. salad bowl.
       In a shaker container, combine tomato juice, dressing mix, oil
  and lemon juice.  Transfer frained spaghettito the bowl; pour
  dressing over spaghetti and vegetables just before serving. NUTRIENTS
  PER SERVING: 101 calories  74% carbohydrate  13% protein  13% fat
       *****SHAPE MAGAZINE 3/92*****
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caesar Salad with Tortellini
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Water
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Anchovy paste
    1/8 ts Freshly ground pepper
      1    Clove garlic, crushed
      9 oz Uncooked cheese tortellini
     12 c  Torn romaine lettuce
  1 1/2 c  2"pieces fresh asparagus(1#)
    1/4 c  Fresh grated parmesan cheese
 
  1.  Combine the first 6 ingredients in a bowl and stir well with a
  whisk and set aside.
  
  2.  Cook the tortellini in boiling water for 7 minutes or until
  tender, omitting the salt and fat. Drain well and set aside.
  
  3.  Arrange the asparagus in a vegetable steamer over boiling water.
  Cover and steam 2 minutes or until crisp-tender. Combine asparagus
  and tortellini in a bowl, add 2 T of lemon juice mixture and toss
  gently to coat.
  
  4.  Place lettuce in a large bowl; drizzle remaining lemon juice
  mixture over lettuce and toss well. Add tortellini mixture, tossing
  gently to coat. Spoon salad onto serving plates, and sprinkle cheese
  ontop.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vinaigrette Pasta Salad with Chicken
 Categories: Salads, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Fresh Pesto sauce
    1/2 ts Seasoned salt
      1 lb Chicken breasts,skinned,bone
      1 ea Sliced blanched zucchini
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice
      1 ea Egg yolk
    1/2 ts White pepper
      9 oz Fresh Angel's Hair pasta
    1/2 c  Pine nuts
 
    In a medium bowl,place oil,lemon juice,pesto sauce,egg
  yolk,seasoned salt and pepper.Whisk together until well
  blended.Reserve 1/4 cup mixture.Broil chicken breast halves on both
  sides until tender.Slice chicken,crosswise,unto 1" wide strips.Toss
  remaining oil mixture with hot cooked,drained pasta and
  zucchini.Arrange on a serving platter.Place chicken slices over
  pasta;sprinkle with pine nuts.Pour reserved oil mixture over
  salad.Serve immediately or chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caesar For Two
 Categories: Salads, Appetizers, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1    Tin anchovies (millionares)
      4    Bacon chopped
      2 tb White vinegar
        ds Tabasco
      2    Egg yolks
      3 tb Parmesan cheese
      1    Head romaine lettuce
           Croutons
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Worcestershire
    1/2    Lemon
           Capers
 
  Crush garlic in oil with fork in bowl. Add 1/2 can anchovies,capers &
  chop mince with oil. Separate egg yolks in small bowl and add to
  mixing bowl Add worcestershire sauce, lemon, tabasco, vinegar and
  bacon bits mix well. Let stand for 5 minutes. Toss salad and add
  croutons and cheese.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HORSERADISH No.4
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Jewish, Dress/stuff, Relishes, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------MAMA LEAH'S JEWISH KITCHEN----------------------
      1 lb HORSERADISH ROOT
      1 c  Water
      2    WHOLE LEMONS FOR JUICE
           6 tbs.
      2    MEDIUM BEETS
      1 ts SUGAR
 
     PEEL AND WASH HORSERADISH AND BEETS.GRIND INTO A LARGE BOWL.ADD
  SALT,SUGAR,WATER,AND LEMON JUICE.ADD MORE BEETS IF YOU DESIRE MORE
  COLOR, MORE WATER FOR THINNER CONSISTENCY.ADJUST SEASONINGS TO
  TASTE.YIELDS 2 CUP
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BLUE CHEESE DRESS*
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Side dish, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 qt Mayo;. hellmenn's
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Dry mustard
 
  Mix cheese with a little hot water.  Add remainder of ingredients and
  mix in blender or electric mixer.
   Refrigerate.  Makes 1  1/2 qts. Can use pint of mayo.
   and half other ingred.   If you like garlic  as much as I do, add
  more. ENJOY!  Once you  try  this, you'll never buy bottled again!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: POPPY SEED DRESSING - Sally's 1i24
 Categories: Dress/stuff
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Onion powder
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Salad oil
  1 1/2 tb Poppy seed (add more if you
 
  Combine sugar, salt, dry mustard, onion powder, cider vinegar and
  lemon juice.  Stir until sugar dissolves.
   Add oil slowly, beating well.  Dressing thickens as oil is added.
  Stir in poppy seed.  Store in refrigerator. Just before serving,
  shake to mix well.
   Especially delicious with fruit or avocado salad.
   Makes about 1 2/3 cups. Enjoy!!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: NUT VINAIGRETTE
 Categories: Vegetables, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/3 c  Chopped hazelnuts
      2 tb Salad oil
      1 ts Finely shredded lemon peel
      3 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Water
    1/2 ts Sugar
 
  In a 6-8" frying pan, stir hazelnuts in salad oil over low heat until
  nuts are golden, 5-8 minutes. Cool. Add shredded lemon peel, lemon
  juice, water, and sugar.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Horseradish Vinaigrette
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Salads, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
           -- (OR up to double amount)
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Freshly grated horseradish
           -- (or prepared)
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      2 ts -to
      3 ts Fresh herbs *
    1/2 c  Olive oil
 
  * Fresh herbs mix should be equal parts basil, dill, parsley and
  chervil.
  
  Place all ingredients in a jar.  Cover and shake jar vigorously until
  mixed.
  
  From: The Cook's Garden catalog - Spring/Summer 1993 (page 65)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fennel Vinaigrette Dressing
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Salads, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Green Leaf fennel leaves
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1    Garlic clove; peeled
      1 pn Salt
      1 pn Sugar
 
  In a small saucepan, heat oil, fennel leaves, lemon juice, crushed
  garlic and salt and sugar.  Simmer over low heat for 5 minutes.  Pour
  over a bowl of sweet red onion and thinly sliced cucumber.
  
  Copyright Ellen Ecker Ogden From: The Cook's Garden catalog -
  Spring/Summer 1990 - page 20
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Lemon Soup
 Categories: Appetizers, Soup/stew, Fruit, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 pt Vegetable stock
    1/2 pt Dry cider
      2 oz Short-grain brown rice
           Salt & pepper
      2 ea Lemons, juiced, rind grated
      2 tb Chives, snipped
      4 ea Thin lemon slices to garnish
 
  Simmer the stock, coder & rice in a covered pot with salt, pepper &
  lemon rind for 40 minutes.  Puree & return to the pot.
  
  Mix in the lemon juice & simmer gently.  Cool & skim any fat that
  might appear on the surface.  Chill.
  
  To serve, scatter with the chives & garnish each bowl with a slice of
  lemon.
  
  Adapted from Pamela Westland, "Fruit"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Double Melon Soup
 Categories: Appetizers, Soup/stew, Fruit, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Cantaloupe, peeled, seeded &
           -- chopped
      2 tb Orange juice
      1 ts Orange rind, grated
      2 tb Sweet sherry
    1/2 ea Honeydew melon, peeled,
           -- seeded & chopped
      2 tb Lemon juice
      3 tb Mint, chopped
           Mint sprigs, to garnish
 
  Puree the cantaloupe with the orange juice, orange rind & the sherry.
  Cover & chill for at least 3 hours.
  
  Puree the honeydew melon with the lemon juice & mint.  Cover & chill
  for at least 3 hours.
  
  Pour equal amounts of each melon mixture into chilled serving bowls
  for a pretty half orange, half green effect.  Garnish with mint
  sprigs & serve chilled.
  
  Pamela Westland, "Fruit"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Robb's Layered Salad with Spicy Peanut Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Appetizers, Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
    1/2 lb Red potatoes
      2 c  Cauliflower florets
      1 md Carrot, julienned
    1/4 lb Green beans, sliced
      2 c  Green cabbage, shredded
      1 c  Jicama, julienned

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      1 c  Coconut milk
    1/3 c  Crunchy peanut butter
      1 lg Garlic clove, minced
      3 tb Indonesian sweet soy sauce
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 ea Square inch of lemon zest
      2 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Crushed hot red pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 tb Water
      2 ea Scallions, thinly sliced
      6 ea Cherry tomatoes
 
  In a medium saucepan of boiling salted water, cook the potatoes until
  tender, 12 to 20 minutes, depending on size; drain.  When cool enough
  to handle, peel and slice.
  
  In another saucepan of boiling salted water, cook the cauliflower
  until just tender, about 3 minutes.  Remove with a slotted spoon and
  rinse under cold water; drain well.
  
  In the same boiling water, repeat this process with the carrot, then
  the green beans, and finally the cabbage.  (The jicama is not cooked.)
  
  To make the dressing, in a medium saucepan, combine the coconut milk,
  peanut butter, garlic, sweet soy sauce, lemon juice, lemon zest, brown
  sugar, hot pepper, salt and 2 tablespoons of water.  Bring to a boil
  over moderate heat, stirring frequently.  Reduce the heat to
  moderately low and simmer until thickened, about 10 minutes.  Keep
  warm over very low heat until ready to use.
  
  Arrange the vegetables in layers in a large salad bowl.  Scatter the
  scallions on top.  Garnish with tomatoes.  Pour the warm peanut butter
  sauce over all.  Serve at room temperature.
  
  Recipe by Robb Dabbs
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Mushroom Salad
 Categories: Salads, Greek, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Small button mushrooms
      5 tb Dry white wine
      5 tb Water
      5 tb Olive oil
           Juice of half a lemon
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 tb Chopped onion
      1 pn Thyme
      1 pn Coriander
      1 pn Fennel seeds
           Salt & pepper
 
  Wipe the mushrooms, but do not peel them.
  
  Put all the remaining ingredients into a saucepan & simmer them for 5
  minutes.  If the mushrooms are very small, leave them whole.
  Otherwise, cut them in half or into quarters, depending upon their
  size. Add to the saucepan & simmer for 5 minutes.  Let them cool in
  the liquid before placing in a bowl to serve.
  
  Mary Norwak, "Salads"
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Algerian Cooked Carrot Salad - Kitchen Safari
 Categories: Salads, African
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Carrots
      3 ea Garlic cloves, chopped
      1 pn Salt
      1 pn Sugar
           Lemon Juice
    1/2 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/4 ts Cumin
           Parsley, chopped
 
  Scrape the carrots and quarter lengthwise. Cook in a little water with
  garlic and a pinch of salt and sugar, for 15 minutes. Drain and
  chill. Just before serving, cover with lemon juice, aobut 1/4
  teaspoon salt, cayenne and cumin. Sprinkle with chopped parsley.
  
  Harva Hachten, "Kitchen Safari A Gourmet's Tour of Africa" Posted by
  Dorothy Hair
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Salad with Currants, Olives and Pine Nuts
 Categories: Salads, Appetizers, Pasta, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Penne pasta
      1 ea Garlic clove, quartered
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Packed stemmed fresh parsley
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Curry powder
      1 ts Sugar
    3/4 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 c  Olive oil
      1 ea Red onion
           -- peeled, finely chopped
      1 c  Sliced Kalamata olives
           -- (pitted)
    2/3 c  Dried currants
    2/3 c  Toasted pine nuts
           Fresh parsley sprigs
           Cherry tomatoes
 
  Cook pasta in large pot of boiling salted water until just tender but
  still firm to bite, stirring occasionally.  Drain.  Rinse under cold
  water; drain well. Transfer pasta to large bowl.
  
  Meanwhile, blend garlic and salt to paste in processor, scraping down
  sides of bowl occasionally.  Add 1 cup parsley and mince.  Blend in
  lemon juice, vinegar, curry, sugar, cumin and pepper.  With machine
  running, gradually add oil through feed tube in thin steady stream.
  
  Pour dressing over pasta.  Add onion, olives, currants and pine nuts
  to pasta and toss.  Season with pepper.  Cover and refrigerate until
  chilled, about 2 hours.  (Can be made 1 day ahead.)
  
  Garnish salad with parsley sprigs and cherry tomatoes and serve.
  
  Edena Sheldon in "Bon Appetit" August, 1991  Posted by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Korean-Style Cucumber Salad
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Pickling cucumbers; peeled
      1 md Onion; peeled
      1 tb Kosher salt; plus...
      1 ts Kosher salt
  3 1/2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper (or more)
      2 tb Crushed roasted sesame seeds
  1 1/2 tb Sesame oil
 
  Cut the cucumbers and onion into very fine slices (a food processor
  may be used for this).  Sprinkle with salt, mix well, and set aside
  in a bowl for an hour.
  
  Drain all the accumulated liquid and discard.  Add the lemon juice,
  cayenne pepper (Koreans like this dish very hot), sesame seeds, and
  sesame oil. Mix well, cover, and refrigerate.  Serve cold or at room
  temperature.
  
  Source: Madhur Jaffrey's World-of-the-East Vegetarian Cooking Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Green Salad Tossed with Tomato Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Main dish, Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SALAD--------------------------------
      1 ea Romaine lettuce, torn
      1 ea Scallion, chopped
    1/2 ea Green bell pepper, diced
      1 ea Celery stalk
      1 ea Granny Smith apple, diced
    1/4 c  Walnuts, toasted

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 lg Ripe tomatoes
    1/8 c  Almonds, toasted
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ts Hungarian paprika
           Salt & pepper
 
  Combine salad ingredients in a large salad bowl.  Set aside.
  
  Wash tomatoes & place in a blender or food processor.  Process until
  smooth.  Add the remaining ingredients & process until the almonds are
  smooth & the rest of the ingredients have been well blended.  Check
  the seasoning.  Place in a glass jar & refrigerate until ready to
  serve.
  
  Toss prepared salad with dressing.  You may not need to use it all.
  Serve with lots of fresh Italian home-made bread for a refreshing
  main dish salad in the summer.
  
  VARIATION: Substitute pine nuts for the walnuts in the salad.  Add a
  couple of mushrooms if so desired.
  
  Recipe by Mark Satterly
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vegetable Miso Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Water
      6 tb White miso
    3/4 lb Fresh peas; shelled, -OR-
      3 c  -(thawed) frozen peas
      3    Green onions, with tops
           -- thinly sliced
      1    Jalapeno pepper; seeded
           -- sliced into thin rings
      1    Garlic clove; minced
      1 md Piece dulse; finely chopped
      2 ts Freshly squeeze lemon juice
    1/4 ts Hot sesame oil
 
  Put 1 cup of the water and the miso in a small bowl and stir
  together. In a large pot, combine the remaining 5 cups water, the
  peas, green onions, jalapeno pepper, and garlic.   Cover and bring to
  a boil over medium-hight heat, then immediately reduce the heat and
  simmer for 3 minutes. Stir in the miso mixture, dulse, lemon juice,
  and hot sesame oil. Bring barely to a simmer over medium-high heat.
  Serve immediately.
  
  Source: May All Be Fed - by John Robbins (including recipes by Jia
  Patton and Friends) Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil and Sweet Pepper Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Red bell peppers
      1    Yellow bell pepper
      1    Orange bell pepper
  1 1/4 c  Green lentils; washed
      3 c  Water
      1 sm Onion; peeled
      1    Garlic clove; peeled
      1 sm Red chili pepper
           -- seeded & finely chopped
      1 sm Red onion; thinly sliced
    1/2 c  Dried apricots
           -- thinly sliced
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Extra-virgin olive oil
      1    Lemon; juiced
      2    Garlic cloves; crushed
      1 tb Chopped fresh coriander
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
      2 ts Ground cumin
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Heat the broiler.  Broil the peppers until charred and blistered on
  all sides.  Tie in a plastic bag or place in a covered dish and let
  cool to loosen skins.
  
  Put the lentils, water, onion, and garlic into a 2-quart saucepan.
  Bring to a boil, lower the heat, and simmer, uncovered, for 20 to 25
  minutes, or until the lentils are tender but still a little crunchy.
  Drain and place in a large bowl.
  
  Meanwhile, make the dressing.  Blend the oil, lemon juice, garlic,
  coriander, parsley, and cumin, and season with salt and pepper. Drain
  the lentils, discard the onion and garlic, and place the lentils in a
  large bowl.  Stir in the dressing and set aside.
  
  Peel and seed the bell peppers over a bowl to catch any juices, slice
  the flesh thinly, and reserve.  Pour any juices into the lentils and
  leave to cool completely.
  
  Stir the bell peppers, chili peppers, onion, apricot slices, and salt
  and pepper to taste into the lentils and serve at once.
  
  Serves 4-6
  
  * Source: The Inspired Vegetarian, by Louise Pickford * Typed for you
  by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Parsley Bisque
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Raw almonds or cashews
      5 c  Vegetable stock or bouillon
      1 lb Red-skinned potatoes
           -- unpeeled,
           -- cut into 1/2-inch cubes
      2 md Leeks; sliced
           -- (thoroughly washed)
      1 c  Finely chopped fresh parsley
      1 ts Freshly squeezed lemon juice
      1 ts Fine sea salt
    1/4 ts Freshly ground black pepper
 
  Blanch the almonds in boiling water for 30 seconds.  Drain, and plunge
  almonds into cold water.  Drain, and squeeze the almonds between your
  fingertips to remove the skins.  Compost or discard the skins.
  
  Put the blanched almonds and 1 cup of the vegetable stock in a
  blender, and blend until smooth, about 1 minute.
  
  In a large pot, combine the potatoes, leeks, and the remaining 4 cups
  vegetable stock and bring to a simmer over medium heat.  Cover and
  boil until the potatoes are tender, about 10 to 15 minutes.
  
  Stir the blanched almond mixture, parsely, lemon juice, salt, and
  pepper into the soup.  Bring to a simmer and cook, stirring often,
  until thickened, about 2 minutes.  Transfer the soup to a food
  processor and process, in batches if necessary, until smooth.
  
  Serve immediately.
  
  Source: May All Be Fed - by John Robbins (including recipes by Jia
  Patton and Friends) Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet and Spicy Couscous Salad
 Categories: Salads, Main dish, Nuts/grains, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Currants
    1/4 c  Fresh-squeezed orange juice
    1/4 c  Fresh-squeezed lemon juice
    1/3 c  Canola or safflower oil
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/2 ts Fine sea salt
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
      3 c  Water
      1 tb Canola or safflower oil
  1 1/2 c  Couscous
           -- preferably whole wheat
      1 md Carrot; finely chopped
      1 c  Sliced green beans
           -OR- yellow wax beans
           -- (cut into 1/4" pieces)
      1 md Red bell pepper
           -- seeded and finely chopped
    1/2 sm Red onion; finley chopped
    1/4 c  Finely chopped fresh mint
           -OR- parsley

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Tamari-roasted almonds
           -- coarsley chopped
 
  Put the currants, orange juice, lemon juice, 1/3 cup oil, cinnamon,
  salt, and cayenne in a jar.  Cover with the lid and shake until the
  ingredients are well mixed.
  
  In a medium saucepan, bring the water and 1 tablespoon oil to a boil.
  Stir in the couscous.  Immediately remove from the heat, cover, and
  let stand until the water is absorbed, about 6 minutes.  Transfer the
  couscous to a large bowl, and fluff with a fork.  Cool completely.
  
  Put 1 inch of water in a large saucepan with a steamer basket, cover
  with the lid, and bring to a gentle boil.  Put the carrot, green
  beans, and bell pepper in the steamer basket, cover with the steamer
  (lid? -K.M.), and steam until the vegetables are a bright color,
  about 3 minutes. Remove the steamed vegetables from the basket; they
  should still have a crunch. Rinse under cold water, drain, and cool
  completely.
  
  Stir the steamed vegetables, onion, and mint into the couscous. Shake
  the Spicy Currant Dressing and pour it over the salad.  Stir until
  well coated. Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes to allow the flavors
  to blend. Sprinkle the toasted almonds over the top just before
  serving and serve chilled. (If the salad is prepared more than a few
  hours ahead, adjust the seasonings before serving.)
  
  Source: May All Be Fed - by John Robbins, with recipes by Jia Patton
  and Friends
  
  Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Borscht Energy Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 md Beet
           - scrubbed & cut into chunks
      1 md Carrot; sliced
      1 md Kirby cucumber
           - cut into chunks
      1 md Green bell pepper
           - seeded & coarsely chopped
      1    Lemon; peeled,
           - halved, and seeds removed
      1    Ripe avocado; peeled,
           - stone removed & quartered
    1/2 c  Spinach leaves (packed)
    1/2 c  Alfalfa sprouts (packed)
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh dill
      2 tb Bragg Liquid Aminos
    1/8 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2 c  Vegetable stock; -OR-
           -Vegetable bouillon
           Alfalfa sprouts, for garnish
 
  In a food processor fitted with the metal blade, pulse the beet,
  carrot, cucumber, bell pepper, and lemon until finely chopped.  Add
  the avocado, spinach, alfalfa sprouts, dill, liquid aminos, and
  pepper. With the machine running, gradually add the vegetable stock
  and process until smooth. Transfer the borscht to a bowl, cover, and
  refrigerate until chilled, at least 2 hours.
  
  Serve the soup in individual bowls, garnishing each one with alfalfa
  sprouts.
  
  Source: May All Be Fed - by John Robbins (including recipes by Jia
  Patton and Friends) Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Pasta Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Eggless Mayonnaise
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 c  Cooked noodles
           -- (elbow, rotini, or
           -- small shells)
      4    Green onions; chopped
      6 oz Jar artichoke hearts
           -- drained and sliced
  1 1/2 tb Fresh or dried basil
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Stir the eggless mayonnaise and lemon juice into the noodles.  Add the
  green onions, artichoke hearts, basil, and salt and mix well.  If the
  salad is too dry, add more mayonnaise and/or lemon juice.
  
  Preparation Time: 25 minutes
  
  * Source: The Compassionate Cook - by Ingrid Newkirk and PETA * Typed
  for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Vegetable Tahini Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Raw tahini
    1/3 c  Water
      3 tb Tamari
      1 tb Freshly squeezed lemon juice
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 pn Cayenne pepper
      4 c  Vegetable stock or bouillon
           -OR water
      2 md Carrots; chopped
      2 c  Finely chopped broccoli
           -- florets and stalks
      2 md Leeks; sliced
           -- (thoroughly washed)
      2 md Tomatoes; coarsely chopped
    1/4 c  Finely chopped fresh parsley
 
  Put the tahini, the 1/3 cup water, the tamari, lemon juice, cumin, and
  cayenne in a small bowl, and stir together.
  
  Put the vegetable stock and carrots in a large pot, cover, and bring
  to a boil over medium heat.  Immediately reduce the heat, and simmer
  for 5 minutes.  Stir in the broccoli, leeks, tomatoes, and parsley.
  Cover and return to a boil over medium-high heat, then immediately
  reduce the heat and simmer until the vegetables are tender, about 5
  minutes.
  
  Add the tahini mixture and stir until mixed.  Bring just to a simmer,
  and serve immediately.
  
  Source: May All Be Fed - by John Robbins (including recipes by Jia
  Patton and Friends) Typed for you by Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Primavera Salad with Warm Dressing
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      7 oz Pesto tortellini (1 box)
     20    Snow pea pods
      2 md Carrots; peeled
           -- thinly sliced
    1/4 lb Asparagus; cut in 1" pieces
    1/2 md Cucumber; peeled
           -- Seeded and thinly sliced
      2    Scallions with tops
           -- thinly sliced
    1/3 lb Feta cheese; cubed
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 lg Garlic clove; minced
    1/2 ts Dried basil
    1/4 ts Freshly ground pepper
    1/4 ts Tabasco
           Salt; to taste
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Cook tortellini in large pot of rapidly boiling salted water for
  about 25 minutes or until tender, stirring occasionally.  Drain.
  
  In large pot of boiling water, blanch snow peas for 1 minute.  Chill
  in ice bath until cold.  Blanch carrots, then asparagus, until tender
  crisp. Chill in ice bath until cold.
  
  In a large bowl, combine pasta, all vegetables and cheese.
  
  In a small skillet over medium heat, combine oil, lemon juice, garlic,
  basil, pepper, Tabasco and salt.  Heat until warm.  Pour over pasta
  mixture; sprinkle with parsley and toss until well blended.
  
  Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
  
  On back of 7 oz. box Amore brand cheese tortellini.  Liberty Richter,
  Carlstadt, NJ 07072.  Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chestnut Salad (Kastano Salata)
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Greek, Nuts/grains, Salads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      1 lb Chestnuts; roasted or boiled
      1 tb Onion; finely chopped
      1 tb Fresh parsley or coriander
           -- chopped
      1 ts Fresh sage; chopped
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      1 c  Yogurt or soft cheese
           Lettuce leaves
           Lemon wedges
 
  Pound or slice the chestnuts.  Mix together with the rest of the
  ingredients and serve with fresh lettuce leaves and lemon wedges.
  
  From _Greek Vegetarian Cookery_ by Jack Santa Maria.  Boston:
  Shambhala Publications, Inc., 1984.  Pg. 107.  ISBN 0-394-74197-8.
  Posted by Cathy Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Pepper and Black Bean Salad
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Salads, Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Dry black beans or
      3 c  Black beans; cooked
      2    Red bell peppers
      2    Yellow bell peppers

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Red wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Sugar
      1 lg Garlic clove; minced
    1/3 c  Olive oil
           Salt and pepper; to taste
    1/3 c  Fresh basil; chopped
      4    Scallions; chopped (garnish)
 
  Half the bell peppers lengthwise, removing seeds and stems.
  
  If using dry beans, rinse well, drain, and add water to cover by 3".
  Let soak overnight.  Drain and rinse soaked beans, discarding water.
  Add fresh water to cover by 3".  Bring to boil, then loosely cover
  pot and simmer for about one hour, until tender but not mushy; season
  to taste with salt.
  
  Preheat oven to 450 F.  Place cut peppers on broiling pan, 3" from
  heat. Turn frequently until skins are blackened.  Cool.  Remove
  skins, and cut into 1" squares.  Combine in serving bowl with beans.
  
  Combine dressing ingredients thoroughly; toss with beans and peppers.
  Garnish with scallions.
  
  Yield: 6 to 8 servings.
  
  From 1994 Shepherd's Garden Seeds Catalog, pg. 8.  Posted by Cathy
  Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TOMATO AND ORANGE SOUP (Marguerite Patten)
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Tomatoes, skinned
      1    Onion, peeled
      1    Carrot, peeled
     35 fl Chicken stock or water witb
      1    Chicken stock cube
    1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 ts Grated orange rind
      1    Bay leaf
           Salt and black pepper
  1 1/2 oz Margarine
  1 1/2 oz Flour
      5 fl Orange juice
      5 fl Single cream, optional

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Strips of orange rind
 
  Slice the tomatoes, onion and carrot. Put into a saucepan with the
  stock, or water and stock cube, the fruit rinds, bay leaf and a
  little seasoning. Cover the pan and simmer gently for 30 minutes.
  Remove the bay leaf. Sieve or liquidise the soup. Heat the margarine
  in the saucepan, stir in the ilour, then gradually add the soup and
  the orange juice. Bring to the boil and stir or whisk until the soup
  thickens slightly. Remove from the heat and whisk in the cream then
  heat for 2 minutes, without boiling. While cooking the soup put the
  narrow strips of orange rind into cold water, bring to the boil and
  simmer for 10 minutes then strain. Top the soup with the softened
  rind.
  
  In a microwave: Simmer the tomatoes and other ingredients in the
  liquid for about 20 minutes. Use DEFROST after the liquid comes to
  boiling point.
  
  Variations: Serve as an unthickened soup, simply sieve or liquidise
  the ingredients add the orange juice and heat or serve well chilled.
  Use 2 x 14 oz/400 g cans of chopped plum tomatoes instead of fresh.
  
  Source: Marguerite Patten's Marvellous Meals, Yours Magazine, UK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lentil Fatta Salad
 Categories: Salads, Jewish, Vegetables, Middle east
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Lentils
      4 c  ;Water
      1 c  Onion; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Each salt and pepper
    1/2 c  Pita or other bread; cubed
    1/2 c  Green onion; chopped
           Fresh lemon juice
           Olive oil
 
  Boil together the lentils, water, onion, oil, salt and pepper until
  very soft (about 50 to 60 minutes).  Drain and cool.  Add cubed pita
  bread and green onion; combine well.  Serve with fresh lemon juice
  and additional olive oil to taste.
  
  From _The Yemenite Cookbook_ by Zion Levi and Hani Agabria.  New York:
  Seaver Books, 1988.  Pg. 30.  ISBN 0-8050-0394-0.  Posted by Cathy
  Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Garlic Salad Dressing
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Dress/stuff, Herbs/spice, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Garlic (heaping) or
      2 lg Garlic cloves; fine chopped
           Salt & freshly ground pepper
           Torn lettuce to serve 4
      1 lg Tomato, seeded & chopped, or
      2 sm Tomatoes
    1/4 c  Fresh chives; chopped
           Salt and pepper
    1/2 c  Walnuts; toasted
      2 tb Grated Asiago cheese or
           Fresh Parmesan cheese*
 
  *Use up to 3 tb. of cheese, according to taste.
  
  In a bowl or blender, combine vinegar, lemon juice and mustard.
  
  In a small skillet, heat olive oil.  Add garlic; saute until just
  golden. Gradually whisk in the vinegar mixture, blending thoroughly.
  Add salt and pepper to taste.
  
  Pour dressing over salad bowl containing the lettuce and tomato;
  sprinkle walnuts and cheese over the salad before serving.
  
  From 1994 Shepherd's Garden Seeds Catalog, pg. 22.  Posted by Cathy
  Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Russian Cabbage Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 quarts
 
  1 1/2 lb Lean rump or chuck roast,
           -cut into 1" cubes
      2 c  Cooked chopped tomatoes
      1 ea Large onion, chopped
      1 ea Bay leaf
      1 ea Clove garlic, minced
      3    Quarts cold water
      1 ea Medium head cabbage,shredded
      2 tb Sugar
      2 tb White vinegar
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
           Salt and pepper taste
           Low-fat sour cream, for
           -garnish
 
  In a large soup pot, cover the beef, tomatoes, onion, bay leaf, and
  garlic with the cold water.  Let stand for 1 hour. Simmer, covered,
  for 2-3 hours.
  
  Remove the bay leaf and add the cabbage, sugar, vinegar, salt and
  pepper. Simmer for 15 minutes or until the cabbage is tender.
  
  Before serving, add the lemon juice and garnish each serving with a
  dollop of the sour cream.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Poppyseed Muffins
 Categories: Muffins
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Egg
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Flour
      1 tb Baking powder
      2    Lemons; grated zest only
    1/3 c  Poppy seeds
 
  PREHEAT OVEN TO 400~. Beat egg, salt and sugar until light and
  fluffy. Add oil in a stream and continue beating. Beat in milk. Sift
  flour and baking powder together several times and add to batter. Add
  lemon zest and poppy seeds. Beat until thoroughly mixed. Bake in
  greased muffin tins for 20-25 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APRICOT KOLACHY
 Categories: Breads, Desserts, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 24 servings
 
           -FHMN87A
      1 tb Active dry yeast
    1/4 c  Lukewarm water
    1/4 c  + 2 T sugar
    1/4 c  Margarine
      2    Eggs
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Water
  3 1/2 c  To 4 C Flour
     24    Dried apricots or prunes
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Dissolve the yeast in the 1/4 cup of warm water. Add the 1/4 cup of
  sugar and margarine. When the margarine is soft, add the salt,eggs,
  lemon extract, 1/2 cup of water, and 3 cups of the flour. Beat until
  thoroughly blended. Place on a floured surface and knead in extra
  flour to make a soft, smooth dough. Transfer to a lightly oiled bowl,
  cover with a damp cloth, let rise until doubled in bulk. (about 1
  hour) Meanwhile, cook the apricots in the remaining 1/2 cup of water
  for 15 to 20 minutes, or until softened. Puree. Add the cinnamon and
  the remaining 2 Tablespoons of sugar and mix well. Cool until needed.
  Punch the dough down and let rest for 5 minutes. Roll out on a
  floured,surface to approximately 1/2 inch thick and cut into 2-inch
  circles. Place a spoonful of the apricot (or prune) purr in the
  center. Place on an oiled baking sheet. Let rise for 15 minutes. Bake
  in a 400 F oven for 10 to 15 minutes, or until browned. From The ADA
  Holiday Cookbook by Dr. Betty Wedman. 1 serving = 1 bread, 1/2 fat
  and 1/2 fruit exchange. = 114 Cal, 20 CHO, 3 PRO, 3 FAT, 79 Na, 81 K,
  23 Chol
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LISA'S WHOLE WHEAT CRANBERRY BREAD
 Categories: Fruit, Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 10 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------LISA CRAWLEY  TSPN00B------------------------
      4 ts Dry Yeast
  1 3/4 c  Whole Wheat Flour
  1 3/4 c  White Flour
  1 1/2 tb Gluten
    1/4 c  Light Brown Sugar
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Butter
  1 1/2 ts Dry Lemon Peel
  1 1/2 ts Dry Orange Peel
      1 c  Whole Cranberries; chopped
           -coarse
    1/2 tb Pure Maple Syrup
      4 tb Buttermilk Powder
  1 1/4 c  Water; warmed
 
  Chop cranberries.  Drizzle with Maple syrup and stir together. Place
  ingred. In bread machine according to manufacturers instructions.
  Adjust water or flour as needed. Cook on White Bread Cycle. Raised up
  to vent. Delicious fruit flavor.  Definite DO AGAIN!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ALMOND POPPY BREAD
 Categories: Breads, Nuts/grains, Breadmaker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Bread Flour
      1 tb Dry milk
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Butter
    1/4 c  Lemon yogurt
  1 1/2 tb Honey
    1/4 c  Sliced and toasted almonds
      2 ts Dried lemon peel
      2 tb Poppy seeds
      1 ts Lemon extract
      2 ts Yeast
 
  1 pound loaf
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CERTAINLY CITRUS BREAD
 Categories: Breads, Breadmaker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    2/3 c  Water
      2 c  Bread Flour
      1 tb Plus (see below)
      1 ts Nonfat Dried Milk
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Plus (see below)
      1 ts Applesauce
      2 tb Orange marmalade
      2 ts Lime juice
           Pn Lemon peel
      2 ts Yeast (active dry)
 
  1 pound loaf
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: KULICH BREAD
 Categories: Breads, Breadmaker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Marie Frainier *DGCP02C*
    1/2 c  Water
      2 c  Plus (see below)
      2 tb Bread Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1    Egg Beaters
      2 tb Raisins
      2 tb Dried cherries
      2 tb Dried fruit mix
      2 tb Milk
      2 tb Honey
    3/4 ts Vanilla extract
    1/4 ts Dried lemon peel
      2 tb Toasted almonds
      2 ts Yeast (active dry)
 
  NOTES : Plus just means add following ingredients 1 POUND LOAF
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemonaide Bread NVN
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -JWESTERGRE
  2 1/2 ts Active dry yeast
  1 3/4 c  + 2 Tbs bread flour
  1 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
  1 1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Froz lemonade conc, thawed
      1 c  Water
 
  Add all ingredients in the order suggested by your bread machine's
  manufacturer and process on the basic bread cycle.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bagel Toppers 3
 Categories: Dips/spread, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -Waldine Van Geffen VGHC42A

MMMMM-------------------------NEW YORKER------------------------------
      4 oz Whipped cream cheese
      2 oz Smoked salmon; cut slivers
      1 tb Sour cream
      1 ts Fresh lemon juice
      1 tb Fresh dill; minced or
      1 ts Dillweed
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Freshly ground pepper

MMMMM-------------------------MIDWESTERN------------------------------
      4 oz Whipped cream cheese with
           -chives
      2 oz Ham; diced
      2 ts Honey mustard
    1/8 ts Freshly ground pepper

MMMMM------------------------CALIFORNIAN-----------------------------
      1 c  Ricotta cheese
    1/3 c  Radishes; diced
    1/3 c  Cucumbers; seed, dice
    1/4 c  Parsley; chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Lemon peel; grated

MMMMM------------------------PIZZA SNACK-----------------------------
      6 oz Can tomato paste
      1 ts Dried oregano leaves
      5    Whole wheat or white bagels;
           -split
    1/2 c  Green bell pepper, mushroom,
           -or black olives; chopped
      3 oz Mozzarella cheese; shredded
 
  This is for 4 bagels, halved and toasted. NEW YORKER-Combine cream
  cheese, salmon, sour cream, lemon juice, dill, salt and pepper.
  MIDWESTERN-Combine cream cheese, ham, mustard and pepper.
  CALIFORNIAN-Combine ricotta, radishes, cucumbers, parsley, salt and
  lemon peel. PIZZA SNACK-Heat oven to 450~. In small bowl, combine
  tomato paste and oregano. Spread each bagel half with 1T paste
  mixture. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Top each with bell pepper;
  sprinkle with cheese. Bake at 450~ for 6 to 8 minutes or until cheese
  is melted
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: DIABETIC ANISE RAISIN BREAD
 Categories: Breads, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  -2tsp flour
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
      3 tb Reduced-calorie margarine
      1 ts Reduced-calorie margarine
    1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/4 c  Sugar(or sweetneder equiv)
      1 tb Anise seeds, crushed
    1/4 ts Anise extract
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
      1    Egg
    1/4 c  Raisins
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F. In a large bowl, combine flour and baking
  powder. Add margarine and blend with fork until mixture resembles
  coarse crumbs. In a medium bowl, combine reamining ingredeints,
  except raisins. Beat with fork or wire whisk until blended. Add this
  mixture and raisins to dry ingredients, stirring until all
  ingredients are moistened. Place ain a 4x8" nonstick loaf pan or one
  that has been sprayed with a nonstick cooking spray. Pat down dough
  gently with slightly wet fingertips. Bake 30 minutes, or until
  toothpick inserted in the cneter comes out clean. Cool in pan 10
  minutes, then invert onto a rack to finsih cooling. From *Prodigy's
  Food and Wine-Healthy Eating Bulletin Board, from Bridget Benjamin -
  PHFC09A.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BERRY MUFFINS
 Categories: Breads, Muffins
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 c  Biscuit mix
      1 c  Unflavored yogurt
           Non-nutritive sweetener to
           -equal 1/4 cup + 2 T sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Berries;blue, black, etc
      2 ts Grated lemon peel
 
   Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.  Grease a 12 muffin (2 1/2") tin.
  Combine mix and sweetener equivalent to 1/4 cup sugar in bowl; add
  yogurt. Add egg; beat with fork until well combined. Fold berries
  gently into batter with rubber spatula; place about 1/4 cup batter
  into each muffin cup. Combine lemon peel and remaining sweetener and
  mix well. Sprinkle over batter; bake until golden brown (20 to 25
  minutes). Serve hot. Yields 12 muffins. PER SERVING: 1 muffin = 1
  Bread, 1/2 Fat Calories: 104
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE PANCAKES-Pat
 Categories: Breads, Fruit, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 18 servings
 
      2 c  Bisquick
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1    Egg
  1 1/3 c  Milk
    3/4 c  Apple; grated

MMMMM------------------------CIDER SYRUP-----------------------------
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Pumpkin pie spice
      2 c  Apple cider
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Butter; or margarine
 
  Beat Bisquick, cinnamon, egg and milk until smooth. Fold in grated
  apple. Pour batter from 1/4-cup measuring cup onto hot griddle. Bake
  until bubbles appear. Turn and bake other side until golden brown.
  Makes about 18 pancakes. Pass Cider Syrup or other syrup of choice.
  For cider syrup: Mix sugar, cornstarch and spice in saucepan. Stir in
  cider and juice. Cook, stirring constantly, until mixture thickens
  and boils 1 minute. Remove from heat and blend in butter.
   Pat Empson 05/21 07:27 am 11:14 AM
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE ONION TURKEY STUFFING
 Categories: Dress/stuff, Breads, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 tb Butter
      1 c  Onion, diced
      2 c  Bread, crumbs
      2    Pippin apples; chopped
      1 c  White wine
      2 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Allspice
      1 c  Almonds; chopped
 
  In frying pan, melt butter and saute onions until they are clear. In a
  bowl, combine the bread crumbs with the onion mix. Add apples and
  wine. Return to pan and cook 5 minutes longer. Add the remaining
  ingredients Stuff into turkey neck and body cavities.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE DATE STRUDEL
 Categories: Fruit, Breads
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------LORELI AGUDA WSKD49A-------------------------
  2 1/2 c  All purpose flour, sifted
      1 ts Double acting baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Egg, beaten
           Butter or margarine
     12    Zwieback, finely rolled,
           -about 3/4 cup crumbs
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
      4 c  Cooking apples
      8 oz Pitted dates, finely snipped
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 ts Cinnamon
 
  Sift first 3 ingredients into bowl. Add egg and 1/4 cup butter,
  melted. Then add 1/2 cup ice water. Stir until blended, then knead to
  smooth ball on lightly floured board. Cover with towel and let rest
  at least 1/2 hour. Saute crumbs in 2 TB butter until lightly toasted,
  add nuts and set aside. Peel and core apples, cut in wedges, then in
  thin crosswise slices. Mix with next 4 ingredients. On lightly
  floured board, roll dough to a 24x16 inch rectangle. Brush with 2 TB
  butter, melted. Sprinkle with crumb mixture to within 1 inch of
  edges. Spread evenly with apple mixture. Then roll from long side as
  for jelly roll and seal ends. Shape in horseshoe and put seam down,
  on greased baking sheet. Melt 1/4 c butter and brush some on strudel.
  Bake in hot oven 400 about 40 minutes. Brush occasionally with
  remaining butter. Serve warm in slices.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Tea Loaf
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      2 ts Double acting baking owder
      2 tb Grated lemon peel
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Whipped butter
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Margarine
    1/3 c  Whole milk
           ...Garnish:
      6    Thin lemon slices
 
   nonstick cooking spray; set aide. Into medium mixing bowl sift
  together flour and baking powder; stir in lemon peel and set aside.
  In large mixing bowl combine sugar, butter, eggs, and margarine and,
  using electric mixer at medium speed, beat until combined; increase
  peed to high and beat until mixture is light and fluffy and double in
  volume. Add flour mixture alternately with milk, beating at low speed
  until batter is smooth. Transfer batter to prepared pan and bake for
  50 to 55 minutes (until browned and a cake tester inserted in center,
  comes out clean). Let cake cool in pan for 5 minutes; invert cake
  onto a wire rack and let cool completly. To serve. garnish with lemon
  slices and cut into 12 equal slices.
  
   Each serving provides: 1 Bread exchnge; 1 fat Exchange; 110 Optional
  Calories. Per Serving: 220 calories; 4g protein; 9g fat; 31g
  carbohydrate; 56 mg calcium; 170 mg sodium; 57mg cholesterol; 0.8g
  dietaryfiber
  
   Source:  Weight Watchers Quick Success Program Cookbook
  
   Individul slices of this loaf may be wrapped in plastic freezer wrap
  and frozen for later use; thaw at room temperature Posted by
  COOKIE.LADY [MUMSIE] on Jul 16, 1992
  
   MM by Cathy Svitek
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE OAT BREAD
 Categories: Nuts/grains, Breadmaker
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
  1 1/3 c  Bread Flour
    2/3 c  Whole-Wheat Flour
      2 ts Nonfat Dried Milk
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Applesauce
    1/2 c  Canned/chopped apples
      1 tb Concentrated apple juice
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Honey
      2 tb Yogurt,Plain, Non-Fat
      2 ts Molasses
    1/4 c  Oats
      2 ts Yeast
 
  1 POUND LOAF Marie Frainier *DGCP02C*
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: IRISH BARMBRACK
 Categories: Breads, Breadmaker, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           -PNewton vkbb14a
      6 tb Currants  1/4 c
      6 tb Seedless raisins  1/4 c
      6 oz Milk   1/2 c
      2 oz Water   1 oz
  3 1/2 tb Applesause (butter)  2 1/2 T
      3 c  Bread flour  2 c.
    3/4 c  Sugar   1/2 c
  1 1/2 ts Salt   1 t
    3/4 ts Allspice  1/2 t
    3/4 ts Dried lemon peel  1/2 t
  1 1/2 ts Yeast  1 t
 
  This bread doesn't rise much. It's a dense, sweet and quite tasty.
  Place in pan according to custom.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SUGARLESS BLUEBERRY MUFFINS
 Categories: Fruit, Muffins
      Yield: 12 servings
 
  1 3/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt (opt)
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
    3/4 c  Orange juice
      1 ts Orange or lemon rind
      1 c  Blueberries,rinsed,drained
      2 ts Flour,to toss blueberries in
 
  In a large mixing bowl, sift together the flour, salt , baking powder,
  cinnamon and nutmeg. Preheat oven to 400 F. In a small bowl, beat eggs
  lightly, add the oil, orange juice and grated rind, and add this
  mixture to the flour mixture.Before the flour and liquid ingredients
  are fully combine, fld in the blueberries, stirring gently. Fill 12
  or more well greased muffin tins about 2/3 full with the batter. Bake
  the muffins for 20-25 minutes. From *Prodigy's Healthy eating
  Bulletin Board. From Jane Brody's Good Food Book.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: APPLE-PECAN MUFFINS
 Categories: Muffins, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  All-purpose flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
      1 lg Egg
      2 tb Fresh lemon juice
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    3/4 ts Grated lemon peel
      2 c  Green apples; coarsely
           Grated peeled (abt 2 lg)
    1/2 c  Chopped toasted pecans
           (about 2 ounces)
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease 1/2-cup muffin cups. Sift all
  purpose flour, baking soda, ground cinnamon and salt into medium
  bowl. Combine sugar, oil, egg, lemon juice, vanilla and lemon peel in
  large bowl; whisk to blend. Mix in dry ingredients, then apples and
  pecans. Spoon 1/3 cup batter into each prepared muffin cup. Bake
  until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 35 minutes.
  Turn muffins out onto rack; cool slightly. Serve warm. (Makes about
  12)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: RASPBERRY MUFFINS
 Categories: Muffins, Appetizers, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour- divided
  1 1/4 c  Raspberry ; fresh
      1 c  Brown sugar
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Egg; beaten
    1/3 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Skim milk
    1/4 c  Nuts; chopped
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/2 tb Cinnamon
    1/3 c  Powdered sugar
      2 ts Lemon juice
 
      Preheat oven to 350. Dust raspberries with 2 T. flour, set aside.
  Mix remaining flour, sugar, baking powder, cinnamon and salt. Mix egg
  & oil; add flour mixture alternately with milk. Fold in raspberries.
  Fill standard size greased muffin cups (or paper ones) 2/3 full.
  Combine nuts, brown sugar & remaining cinnamon; sprinkle over muffins
  and bake 20-25 min. Stir together powdered sugar & lemon juice. When
  muffins are slightly cooled drizzle sugar/lemon mixture on muffins.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese Butter
 Categories: Breads, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter, softened
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Lemon juice
    3/4 ts Italian seasoning
      1 c  Cheddar, shredded
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Beat butter and seasoning until fluffy. Blend in cheese and lemon
  juice. Form a log and refrigerate.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PASKA (WITH ALMONDS)
 Categories: Breads, Ethnic
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pk Yeast
      2 tb Warm water
      1 c  Warm milk
    1/4 c  Melted butter
  1 1/2 ts Grated lemon rind
      1 tb Blanched almonds
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Almond extract
      2    Eggs (well beaten)
      3 c  Sifted flour
      1    Egg yolk
 
  Dissolve yeast in warm water and add to lukewarm milk. Add butter,
  lemon rind, sugar, and almond extract and mix well. Add flour and
  eggs. Knead until smooth and allow to rise until doubled in bulk.
  Then knead again. Divide dough into three parts. Roll each portion
  into a long strip. Braid three strips into roll. Place on buttered
  pan, cover with towel and allow to rise until doubled in bulk again.
  Brush with beaten egg yolk. Sprinkle top with thin slivers of almonds
  and bake in moderate oven for about 30 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: OATMEAL CRACKERS
 Categories: Breakfast, Breads, Kids
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Lard
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla flavoring
    1/2 ts Lemon flavoring
      3 c  Quick rolled oats
      2 ts Milk
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Soda
 
  From: Kitchen Klatter Cookbook Posted by: Donna Ransdell
  
  Cream shortening and sugar together well, and then add the egg and
  flavorings. Stir in the oats and milk. Sift together the flour, salt
  and soda and add to the creamed mixture. (You probably will have to
  use your hands to work in the dry ingredients thoroughly!) Shape into
  rolls, wrap in waxed paper or foil, and store in the refrigerator.
  When ready to bake, slice thinly and bake on a greased cooky sheet at
  375 degrees until lightly browned.
  
  Courtesy of Shareware RECIPE CLIPPER 1.2
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Special Strawberry Bread
 Categories: Breads, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Frozen unsweetened whole
           Strawberrys, thawed (reserve
           Juice
  1 3/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2 lg Eggs
    1/4 c  Strawberry juice, from
           Reserve
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Puree strawberries using blender, food
  processor or strainer. You should have 1 cup of puree. Mix flour,
  baking soda, baking powder, salt and cinnamon in large bowl. Cream
  butter. Using medium bowl, add sugar, then eggs till well-combined.
  Alternately add dry ingredients, strawberry juice and lemon juice to
  butter mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Stir in
  strawberry puree. Pour batter into standard-sized loaf pan or two
  smaller (approximately 3x7-inch) loaf pans that have been
  well-greased. Bake until a toothpick comes out clean, about 1 hour
  for a full-sized loaf, 50 minutes for smaller loaves. Cool 10 minutes
  in pan; turn out on wire rack to finish cooling. Wrap and store 24
  hours before slicing.
  
   --
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lavender Herb Bread
 Categories: Breads, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
      1 pk Active dry yeast
    1/4 c  ;Warm water
      1 c  Low-fat cottage cheese
    1/4 c  Honey
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Dried lavender buds
      1 tb Fresh lemon thyme
    1/2 tb Fresh basil; finely chopped
    1/4 ts Baking soda
      2    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Unbleached flour
           Butter
 
  In a small bowl, dissolve yeast in water.
  
  In a larger bowl, mix together the cottage cheese, honey, butter,
  herbs, baking soda and eggs.  Stir in the yeast mixture.  Gradually
  add flour to form a stiff dough, beating well after each addition.
  Cover and let rise about 1 hour, or until doubled in bulk.
  
  Stir the dough down with a spoon.  Place in a well-greased 1 1/2 or 2
  qt. casserole or ten 4" individual pie tins.  Let rise 30 to 40
  minutes, or until doubled in bulk.
  
  Bake at 350 F. for one hour for a large loaf, 20 to 30 minutes for
  small loaves.  When done, turn onto a rack, brush top(s) with soft
  butter, and let cool.
  
  Yield: 1 large round loaf or 10 individual dinner rolls.
  
  From Joyce Ellenbecker/Anaheim, CA in "The Kitchen Table: Where Herbs
  and Spices Make the Difference" column in "The Herb Companion."
  February/March 1994, Vol. 6, No. 3.  Pg. 64.  Typed for you by Cathy
  Harned.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Cornbread
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
      3 tb Shortening
    1/4 c  Tofu
    1/4 c  Brown sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/2 ts Coriander
    1/4 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Wholewheat flour
      1 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 c  Soymilk -=OR=- water
 
  Preheat oven to 375F.
  
  Beat together the shortening, sugar & tofu.  Stir in the baking
  powder, salt & spices.  Add the lemon juice.  Beat in the flour,
  cornmeal & soymilk.  Ensure that it is well mixed.  Turn into an
  oiled loaf pan & bake for 30 minutes or until the loaf tests done.
  
  Let cool slightly in the loaf pan before turning the loaf out onto a
  wire rack to cool.
  
  Recipe by Mark Satterly
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Batch Lemon Muffins
 Categories: Breads, Vegetarian
      Yield: 24 muffins
 
  1 1/2 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
  1 1/2 ts Cream of tartar
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/4 ts Sea salt
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
  1 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/2 c  Wheat germ
 10 1/2 oz Soft silken tofu; drained
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 tb Egg replacer
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 c  Natural applesauce
      1 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Light corn syrup
    1/2 c  Wht. grape juice concentrate
           -- (frozen, thawed)
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      1 ts Grated lemon peel
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  Preheat oven to 400 F.  Oil and lightly flour muffin pans.
  
  Sift all-purpose flour, cream of tartar, baking powder, salt and
  nutmeg into a large bowl.  Stir in whole wheat flour and wheat germ.
  Set aside.
  
  Place tofu and 2 tablespoons lemon juice in a food processor and blend
  until smooth.  Set aside.
  
  In a small bowl, whisk egg replacer with water until foamy.
  
  In a medium-size bowl, mix applesauce, brown sugar, corn syrup and
  juice concentrate.  Stir in egg replacer, vanilla, lemon peel and
  remaining 2 tablespoons lemon juice.
  
  Add applesauce mixture to dry ingredients alternately with tofu
  mixture, stirring after each addition.
  
  Fill muffin cups 2/3 full with batter and lighty dust surface of each
  with cinnamon.  Bake until muffins are light brown and toothpick
  inserted into center of muffin comes out clean, about 18 minutes.
  
  Turn out to cool on a wire rack.  Serve warm or wrap and store at room
  temperature when cool.
  
  Per muffin: 143 cal, 5 g prot, 100 mg sod, 29 g carb, 2 g fat, 0 mg
  chol, 83 mg calcium
  
  From: Marie Oser, in Vegetarian Gourmet (Winter 1993) Typed for you by
  Karen Mintzias
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Bread #2
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
  1 3/4 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/4 ts Ground allspice
    1/4 ts Grated nutmeg
      1 ts Grated lemon peel (optional)
    1/4 c  Ground almonds (optional)
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
    3/4 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Mashed banana (4 medium
           -bananas)
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350 F.  Grease 9 x 5 inch loaf pan. 2. Sift
  flour,baking powder,  baking  soda,  salt,  ginger,
     allspice and nutmeg together in bowl.  Add lemon peel and almonds.
     Stir until combined.  Set aside. 3. Beat butter in large mixing
  bowl until soft amd creamy.
     Beat  in  sugar  until  light and fluffy.  Add eggs and beat until
     thoroughly  blended.   Beat  in  flour  mixture  alternately  with
     bananas until mixture is well blended.  Pour into prepared pan. 4.
  Bake in center of oven 1 hour to 1 hour 5 minutes, or until
     toothpick  inserted in center comes out clean.  5.  Cool in pan on
     wire  rack  10  minutes.   Invert  from pan and cool completely on
     rack.
  
  Variation: Banana-walnut or -pecan bread: Omit almonds. Add 3/4 cup
  coarsely chopped walnuts or pecans with bananas.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spectacular Baked Salmon
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      6 lb Spring or sockeye salmon,
           -whole
    1/2 c  White wine
           Juice of 1 lemon
           Salt and pepper
           Stuffings for salmon (to
           -follow)
 
  Preheat oven to 375F
  
  Fish should be butterflied - head and tail removed, but centre bone
  removed - and stuffed. Make a wrapper for fish by folding edges of 2
  large pieces of foil together. Place stuffed salmon on foil so that
  back is up and stuffed portion is down.
  
  Combine wine, lemon juice and seasonings, brush over fish.
  
  Wrap foil loosely around fish, leaving room inside for steam to
  circulate. Bake 1 hour and 20 minutes.  To check for doneness, open
  foil at top and insert small knife.  If it flakes, it is ready.  If
  not cover and return to oven for 5 - 10 minutes more.  Do not over
  cook.
  
  Serve with Hollandaise. Source: Offical Cookbook of Expo 86
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  12 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 90mn Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice Stuffing for Salmon
 Categories: Seafood, Dress/stuff, Fish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
    3/4 c  Wild rice
      3 tb Butter
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      4 ea Stalks celery, chopped
    1/2 c  Red bell pepper, chopped
    1/2 lb Mushrooms, sliced
  1 1/2 c  Croutons
    1/2 c  Pecans, toasted
      3 ea Tbps sherry
      3 tb Soy sauce
      1 tb Fresh (or 1 tsp dried) thyme
      1 tb Chopped fresh (or 1 tsp
           -dried) basil
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Put rice in 2 1/2 cups boiling water, simmer 30 - 40 minutes.
  
  Melt butter in saucepan, Saute onion, mushrooms, celery, red pepper
  until tender.  Add croutons, and wild rice.
  
  Combine the rest of ingredients and add to the above.
  
  Fill salmon cavity and bake as directed. Source: Official Expo 86
  Cookbook
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  12 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 50mn Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seafood Stuffing for Salmon
 Categories: Seafood, Dress/stuff, Fish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      6 tb Butter
      2 md Onions, minced
  1 1/2 c  Mushrooms, finely chopped
      3 ea Clove garlic, crushed
      2 md Bunches parsley, chopped
    1/2 c  Fine bread crumbs
      4 oz Crabmeat, cut in small
           -pieces
      4 oz Shrimp, shelled and
           -deveined, cut in smalll
           -pieces
      4 oz Scallops, cut in small
           -pieces
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Cayenne
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Melt butter in med. saucepan, then add onions and mushrooms, saute
  until soft.  Then add garlic, and saute until tender, but not
  browned. Add parsley and remove from heat.
  
  Stir in bread crumbs, and add assorted seafood, lemon juice, cayenne
  and salt and pepper.
  
  Fill salmon with mixture and bake as directed. Source: Official Expo
  86 Cookbook
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  12 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 15mn Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oyster stuffing for Salmon
 Categories: Seafood, Dress/stuff, Fish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Shucked oysters, throughly
           -rinsed
      3 tb Butter
      1 ea Onion, chopped
      1 ea Clove garlic, crushed
      2 tb Pernod
      1 lg Bunch parsley, chopped
      1 c  Fine bread crumbs
           Salt and pepper
 
  Cut each oyster into 4 - 6 pieces, depending on size.
  
  Melt butter and saute onion and garlic until soft, Add Pernod and
  oysters and cook 1 minute.  Add parsley and breadcrumbs, season to
  taste.
  
  Fill cavity of salmon and bake as directed.
  
  VARIATION: Substitute spinach for parsley.  Use 1 bunch spinach, steam
  until wilted, squeeze out excess water, chop and add to recipe.
  Source: Official Expo 86 Cookbook
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  12 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 20mn Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mint and Rosemary Jelly
 Categories: Dips/spread, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 c  Packed mint leaves
    1/4 c  Rosemary leaves
      1 c  Water
    3/4 c  Orange juice
      3 c  Sugar
           Green food colouring
           -(optional)
           1/2 bottle liquid pectin
           Rosemary sprigs for garnish
 
  chop mint and rosemary.  Place in large saucepan, add water, and
  orange juice.  Bring to boil.  Remove from heat.  Let stand 10
  minutes to infuse.
  
  Strain mixture and return mint infusion to saucepan; add sugar and
  food colouring (if using) bring to boil.  Stir in pectin and bring
  back to full rolling boil.  boil vigourously for 1 minute.
  
  Remove from heat, skim foam off and stir for one minute.  Place in
  jars, with rosemary sprig and seal. Source: Canadian Living
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   3 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kathy's Terriyaki Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 48 ounces
 
     48 oz Soy sauce
      3    Glugs white wine (apx 1/2 c)
  1 1/2 c  Packed brown sugar
      2    Swishes garlic powder (apx
           2 tsp)
      3 tb Fresh grated ginger
 
  Mix together. Boil for 5 minutes. At this point you can cool and
  bottle.
  
  For great chicken wings, Add wings, boil for 5 - 10 minutes, until
  cooked remove them to a baking pan or serving dish, sprinkle with
  sesame seeds. Can serve immediately or make wings ahead and rewarm.
  
  This sauce keeps well in the frig for several weeks. Will freeze and
  can be reused or stored for later. Source: Kathy Hansen
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Imperial - 1
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Backfin crabmeat
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Thyme
    1/8 ts Oregano
    1/8 ts Dry mustard
    1/8 ts MSG
        ds Hot pepper sauce

MMMMM-------------------------ADDITIONAL------------------------------
           Mayonnaise for topping
           Parsley flakes for topping
           Paprika for sprinkling

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Green pepper strips
           Pimento strips
 
  Remove cartilage from crabment.  Set aside.
  
  In large bowl, combine next nine ingredients in recipe, gently mix
  with the crabmeat.
  
  Coat a two quart casserole lightly with mayonnaise and fill with the
  crab mixture.  Spread a thin layer of mayonnaise over top of crab
  mixture, and sprinkle with parsley and paprika.  Top with thin strips
  of green pepper and pimento.
  
  Bake at 350 until mixture is hot and lightly browned - about 40
  minutes.
  
  Tidewater Inn, Easton Md
  
  Typed but not tested. == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.
  == Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Imperial - 2
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Maryland regular OR
           Backfin crabmeat
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Olive Oil
    1/4 c  Chopped chives
      1 tb Lemon juice
      5 dr Oil from can of anchovies
    1/2 ts Capers
      3 ds Hot pepper sauce
      3 ds Worcestershire sauce

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
           Cracker Crumbs
           OR
           Seasoned bread crumbs
           Paprika
           Butter or margarine
 
  Remove cartilage from crabmeat - set aside.
  
  Mix next eight ingredients, add crabmeat and mix well.
  
  Place crab mixture in individual crab shells or in a shallow baking
  dish. Cover with cracker crumbs or seasoned bread crumbs.  Sprinkle
  with paprika and dot with butter.
  
  Bake at 450 degrees until brown and bubbly - about 10 minutes.
  
  Note:  this recipe can be "stretched" with one or two chopped hard
  boiled eggs plus 1/4 cup chopped black olives.
  
  Old Hotel Belvedere, Baltimore
  
  Typed, but not tested. == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.
  == Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Imperial - 3
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Chopped pimento
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      8 dr Hot pepper sauce
      1 ts Salt
      2 lb Backfin crabmeat
      1 ts Old Bay or to taste
      1 ts Mayonnaise per shell
        ds Paprika for sprinkling
 
  Mix fist six ingredients well with fork until blended.  Put crabmeat
  in a large bowl and sprinkle with seafood seasoning.  Add egg mixture
  and mix gently.
  
  Spoon mixture into 8 individual shells.  Spread mayonnaise over top
  of each shell and sprinkle with paprika.
  
  Bake in 400 oven until hot and bubbly - about 20 min.  Serve
  immediately
  
  The Crab Claw, St. Michaels Md
  
  Typed, but not tested == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.
  == Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Imperial - 4
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Backfin crabmeat
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Capers
      1 ts Prepared mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
           Paprika for sprinkling.
 
  Remove cartilage from crabmeat and set aside in large mixing bowl. Add
  lemon juice, capers, mustard and salt.  Mix well.  Then add
  mayonnaise mix well.  Add crabmeat being careful not to break the
  crabmeat lumps.
  
  Pack crabmeat mixture lightly into crab or aluminum shells.  (Mixture
  may also be placed in a two quart shallow baking dish)  Brush tops
  with melted butter and sprinkle with a little paprika.
  
  Place the crabs on a baking sheet and bake at 450 for 10 to 15
  minutes or until mixture is golden brown and thoroughly heated.
  (Same amount of time for a baking dish)
  
  O'Donnells Restaurant Bethesda Md
  
  Typed, but not tested. == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.
  == Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Pound Cake 1
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 cake
 
    1/2 lb Butter
      6    Eggs
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Sour cream
      4 c  Sifted all purpose flour
      1 ts Baking Soda
  2 1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Sift together last three items.   Cream butter and sugar until light
  and fluffy.  Add cream cheese and beat well.  Add eggs one at a time,
  beating well after each.  Add dry ingredients alternately with sour
  cream. Beat well.  Add vanilla.
  
  Bake in greased angel food pan for one hour and five minutes or until
  done.
  
  Lorraine Walton's Blue Cross Book
  
  Typed, but not tested. == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.
  == Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Pound Cake - 2
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 cake
 
  1 1/2 c  Butter
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      3 c  Sugar
      6    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Almond flavoring
      3 c  Cake flour
 
  Cream butter and cream cheese together, blend in sugar.  Add eggs,
  one at a time and continue to blend.  Add vanilla, almond flavoring
  and flour, blend until smooth but DO NOT over beat.
  
  Pour batter into a greased and floured tube pan.
  
  Bake at 325 degree oven for one hour and 15 minutes or until cake
  tests done.
  
  Southwest
  
  Typed, but not tested (Did double check ingredients in recipe - to
  baking soda or baking powder shown)
  
  == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md. ==
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tex-Mex Enchiladas
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      3 tb Bacon fat
      5 tb Gebhardt's Chili powder
      3 tb Flour
      1 ts Salt
      4 c  Water or beef broth
      1 lb Ground beef, cooked and
           Seasoned with
      1 ts Cumin

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      6 oz Cheddar cheese
      6 oz Swiss cheese
      1    Onion, peeled and quartered
      8    Corn tortilla
           Oil
 
  Saute garlic in bacon fat. Lower heat and and stir in chili powder
  watching carefully because it burns easily.  Add the flour, salt and
  1/2 cup broth or water stirring constantly for 2-3 minutes.  Slowly
  add the rest of the broth stirring and cooking til thickened.  Add
  cooked and seasoned ground beef. To assemble the enchiladas: shred
  both cheeses and combine. Finely chop onion and add to cheese
  reserving 2-3 tbs for garnish. Heat about 1/2" oil in a skillet large
  enough to hold a tortilla. Pass the tortillas through, one at a time
  through the hot oil to soften and seal. Do not fry crisp.  Blot
  between paper towel to remove oil. Dip each tortilla in the heated
  sauce and fill with the cheese and onion. Roll up and place seam side
  down in a baking dish. Repeat with the rest of the tortillas. Cover
  with foil and bake at 350 for 10 minutes. Remove enchiladas and
  increase oven temp to 475. Remove foil and spoon about 1 1/2 cups
  sauce over the enchiladas, top with the reserved cheese and return to
  the oven uncovered for about 5 minutes or until the cheese is melted.
  Serve the enchiladas topped with the reserved onion and pass
  additional sauce separately. From: Sally Hilfiger
                  Date: 06 May 94 Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On
   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crispy Frog Legs
 Categories: Game, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 lb Small [?] frog legs
    3/4 c  Lemon juice or vinegar
           Crushed ice
      1 c  Milk
      6 ea Eggs, separated
      2 tb Olive or vegetable oil
    1/4 ts Salt
           Salt & pepper
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
           Vegetable oil
 
     Wash frog legs thoroughly. Place in a large Dutch oven; sprinkle
  with lemon juice, and cover with crushed ice. Refrigerate for 1 to 3
  hours.
     Combine milk, egg yolks, olive oil, and 1/4 teaspoon salt; mix
  well. Beat egg whites until stiff; fold into batter.
     Sprinkle frog legs with salt and pepper; dip each in batter, and
  dredge in flour.  Fry until golden brown in deep oil heated to 375
  degrees F. Drain on paper towels. Recipe from Orange Lake, Florida in
  "Southern Living", May 1980 Typos by JP
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fried Frog's Legs with Parsley Butter
 Categories: Game, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Frog's legs, skinned and
           -ready to use
      2 c  Fine bread crumbs (approx)
    1/4 ts Grated nutmeg
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
           Salt and freshly ground
           -black pepper
      2 ea To 3 eggs; beaten
           Oil or fat for deep-frying

MMMMM-----------------------PARSLEY BUTTER----------------------------
      1 c  Unsalted butter; softened
           -slightly
      2 tb Chopped fresh parlsey
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Lemon wedges & parsley for
           -garnish
           Hot rolls
 
     Soak frogs 15 to 20 minutes in salt water.  Drain and dry well on
  paper towels.
     Season the bread crumbs with nutmeg, cayenne and salt and pepper.
     Roll the frog's legs in seasoned bread crumbs, then dip into beaten
  eggs, and agin in the bread crumbs. Shake lightly to remove excess
  crumbs.
     Heat oil or shortening in a deep saucepan or kettle (a 3- or
  4-quart pan will need 6 cups of oil or 3 pounds of fat to deep-fry
  properly) until hot. Place the frog's legs in a wire basket and dip
  into the hot fat. Fry until golden brown.  Drain on paper towels and
  place on a hot platter.
     Prepare the Parsley Butter: Thoroughly blend the softened butter,
  parsley and lemon juice.
     Serve the frog's legs hot, garnished with parsley and lemon wedges
  and accompanied by a dish of the Parsley butter and hot rolls.
  
  _Classic American Cooking_  Pearl Byrd Foster, 1983 Simon & Schuster
  ISBN 0-671-44303-8     Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Red Pepper Corn
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Ears fresh corn
           Butter-flavored vegetable
           Cooking spray
    1/4 c  Diced sweet red pepper
 
    Remove husks and silk from corn. Place each ear on a piece of
  heavy-duty aluminum foil, and coat with cooking spray. Sprinkle 1
  tablespoon sweet red pepper on each ear of corn. Roll foil lengthwise
  around corn, and twist foil at each end. Bake at 500 degrees for 20
  minutes.
  
  Per ear: 89 calories, 2.5g protein, 1.6g fat, 19.3g carbohydrate, 0mg
  choesterol, 13 mg sodium, 2mg calcium.
  
  Recipe in May, 1991 "Southern Living". Typed for you by Jeff Pruett.
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Onion-and-Potato Soup
 Categories: Vegetables, Soup/stew
      Yield: 7 cups
 
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      1 c  Chopped onion
      1 lg Clove garlic, minced
      2 ea 14-1/2oz cans ready-to-serve
           - chicken broth
      4 c  Peeled, cubed potatoes
           (about 3 large potatoes)
    1/2 c  Sliced green onions
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/4 ts White pepper
      1 c  Milk or liquid non-dairy
           -creamer
           Garnish: green onion strips
 
    Melt butter in a Dutch oven over low heat; add flour, stirring until
  smooth. Cook 1 minute, stirring constantly. Add onion and garlic;
  cook 1 minute or until onion is tender. Gradually add broth, stirring
  constantly. Add potatoes and next 3 ingredients. Bring to a boil;
  cover, reduce heat, and simmer 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, or
  until potatoes are tender. Stir in milk or non-dairy creamer, and
  heat thoroughly. Garnish, if desired.
  
  Recipe from Cathy Darling in February, 1992 "Southern Living". Typed
  by Jeff Pruett.
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marlye Carter's Cream Cheese Pound Cake
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    3/4 lb Butter,at room temperature
      1 pk Cream cheese,at room temp.
      3 c  Sugar
      6    Egg yolks
      3 c  Cake flour
      1 ts Vanilla
      6    Egg whites
 
  1. Preheat oven to 350'F. 2. Cream butter with cream cheese until
  smooth. Add sugar and beat until thoroughly blended, light, and
  fluffy. Add egg yolks and continue to beat until well blended. Add
  flour, one cup at a time, stirring well after each addition. Stir in
  vanilla. 3. In a separate bowl beat egg whites until stiff, then fold
  into batter. Spoon into a well-buttered and floured 10" tube pan.
  Bake in preheated oven 45-60 minutes.
  
     Source?
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dublin Corned Beef and Cabbage - House Beautiful
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Fresh lean corned beef,
           -6 1/2 to 7 lb, rinsed and
           -dried
      3 md Onions, peeled and studded
           -with 3 cloves each
      6    Carrots, peeled and halved
      4    Garlic cloves, peeled
      3    Ribs celery, with leaves,
           -halved
      6    Sprigs flat leaf parsley
           Peel from 1 orange
      8 md Leeks, 3 inches of green
           -left on, roots removed and
           -well washed
     16 sm Red new potatoes, peeled
      1 md Green cabbage, 3 to 3 1/2
           -lb, cored and cut into 8
           -wedges
      8    Carrots, peeled and cut into
           -2-inch pieces
           Salt & coarsely ground black
           -pepper to taste
      4 tb Coarsely chopped flat leaf
           -parsley
      2 c  Cumberland Sauce
           -(separate recipe)
      2 c  Orange Horseradish Cream
           -(separate recipe)
           Black bread and sweet butter
 
  In a large casserole place corned beef, onions studded with cloves,
  carrots, garlic, celery, parsley and orange peel.
  
  Cover meat and vegetables with cold water and bring to a boil, Reduce
  heat to medium and simmer, partially covered, for about 3 hours,
  turning the meat every 30 minutes.
  
  Skim off any foam that rises to the surface. When the meat is tender
  and can be easily pierced with a fork, remove it to a plate, cover
  with aluminum foil and keep warm. Pour the broth through a strainer
  into a bowl and return it to the casserole. (Reserve the flavoring
  vegetables for another use.) Add leeks, potatoes, cabbage, carrot
  pieces, salt and pepper.
  
  Bring the broth to a boil and simmer over medium heat, partially
  covered, for 30 minutes, until vegetables are tender. Stir in 2 T
  chopped parsley.
  
  Before serving, slice the corned beef and place on a large decorative
  serving platter. Arrange the vegetables around the corned beef, ladle
  hot broth over all to moisten and sprinkle with remaining chopped
  parsley.
  
  Serve with Baby Artichokes (see recipe below), Cumberland Sauce,
  Orange Horseradish Cream, coarse black bread and pots of sweet
  butter. Serves 6 to 8.
  
  House Beautiful/March/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicey Beef Brisket
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb Beef brisket, flat half
     24 oz Salsa sauce
     12 oz Beer
      6    Pita breads, cut in half
      1    Lettuce head - shredded
      3    Tomatoes - chopped
 
  Trim fat from brisket.  Place in ungreased baking dish, 13 1/2 by 9
  by 2 inches.  Mix salsa sauce and beer; pour over meat.  Cover
  tightly. Bake in 325 degree oven 3 1/2 hours or until tender. Remove
  beef; slice across the grain.  Stuff pita bread with lettuce and beef
  slices; top with tomatoes. Serve with additional salsa sauce if
  desired.
  
  Source: Pittsburgh, Pa Post-Gazette (23 Oct 1994).
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rocky Mountain Brisket
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Beef brisket
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Pepper
      2 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Crumbled bay leaf
      2 tb Liquid smoke

MMMMM-----------------------BARBECUE SAUCE----------------------------
      3 tb Brown sugar
     14 oz Catsup
    3/4 ts Cayenne pepper
      6 tb Butter, melted
      1 tb Dry mustard
      2 tb Liquid smoke
           -Salt & pepper
    1/4 c  Worcestershire sauce
      2 ts Celery salt
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Combine salt, pepper, chili powder, bay leaves and liquid smoke. Rub
  meat on all sides with mixture.  Place meat fat side up in large
  roasting pan. Cover tightly and bake 4 hours at 325 degrees.  After
  meat is cooked, cut thin slices across the grain; mix with the
  barbecue sauce and simmer for 10 minutes.  Serve on buns.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Special Chicken Salad
 Categories: Salads, Poultry
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      5 c  Chicken, cooked, diced
      2 tb Oil
      2 tb Orange Juice
      2 tb Vinegar
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Green Grapes
  1 1/2 c  Celery, sliced
      1 c  Pineapple, canned tidbits,
           - drained
      1 c  Mandarin Oranges, canned,
           - drained
  1 1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 pk Macaroni Rings, cooked
 
  Combine oil, orange juice, vinegar, and salt.  Stir in chicken, cover
  and refrigerate overnight.
  
  Add remaining ingredients to above mixture and toss gently.
  Submitted By JILL PETERSEN   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Sherbet Dessert
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 pk Gelatin, lemon flavor
      1 c  Water, hot
      1 cn Mandarin Oranges, drained
      1 cn Pineapple, canned crushed,
           - drained
      1 pt Orange Sherbet
      2    Bananas, sliced
 
  Dissolve gelatin in hot water.  Add sherbet, mixture will thicken
  almost immediately.  Add mandarin oranges and pineapple. Fold in
  bananas.
  
  Pour into 8x10-inch dish and refrigerate.
  Submitted By JILL PETERSEN   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Imperial Crab
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Backfin Crab Meat
      1    Green pepper; diced
      4 tb Mayonnaise
      1 tb Onion; chopped
           Salt and red pepper to taste
      2    Eggs; well-beaten, divided
      1 tb Mayonnaise
           Red pepper; for garnish
      6    Crab shells; cleaned
 
  Heat oven to 350F. Pick over crab meat. Combine with green pepper,
  onion, 4 tb mayonnaise, salt, red pepper and eggs (reserve 2
  tablespoons). Fill shells. Add 1 tb mayonnaise to reserved egg and
  top each filled shell with a bit of the mixture. Dot with red pepper.
  Bake about 30 minutes. Serve immediately. From "Meals on Wheels of
  Central Maryland Celebrity Cookbook", recipe from Senator Barbara
  Mikulski Typed by Marianne Riolo Submitted By WESLEY PITTS   On
   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old-Fashioned Chocolate Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 cake
 
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
  1 2/3 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla extract
      2 c  All-purpose flour
    2/3 c  Cocoa
  1 1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/3 c  Water
    1/2 c  Hard peppermint candy;
           -finely crushed (optional)
           One-Bowl Buttercream
           Frosting
 
  Heat oven to 350F. Grease and flour two 9-inch round baking pans or
  one 13x9x2-inch baking pan. In large mixer bowl combine butter,
  sugar, eggs, and vanilla. Beat on high speed 3 minutes. Combine
  flour, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder and salt; add alternately
  with water to creamed mixture. Blend just until combined; add candy,
  if desired. Pour into prepared pan(s). Bake 30-35 minutes or until
  wooden pick unserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes;
  remove from pan(s). Cool completely; frost with One-Bowl Buttercream
  Frosting. Submitted By NANCY VAINE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jamaican Mousse Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 oz Dark chocolate
      3 tb Dark rum
  1 1/4 c  Heavy cream
      2 ts Brown sugar
      1 tb Coffee; black-hot and strong
      2 lg Bananas; peeled and mashed
           -until smooth
      3    Eggs; separated
           ;Chocolate curls,for garnish
 
  Put the chocolate in a bowl and melt it over a pan of hot water. Stir
  the rum and half of the cream into the chocolate and beat thoroughly
  until smooth.
  
  Dissolve the sugar in the coffee. Put the mashed bananas into a bowl
  and beat in the coffee and sugar mixture. Add the egg yolks to the
  banana mixture and beat well. Continue beating and add all the
  chocolate mixture.
  
  Whisk the egg whites until they form stiff peaks. Quickly, but
  carefully, fold the whisked egg whites into the chocolate and banana
  mixture. Spoon the mixture into a lightly greased springform pan,
  lined with baking paper. Chill for at least 2 hours, or until
  completely set and firm.
  
  Carefully loosen the sides of the mousse cake with a warmed metal
  spatula and unmold the sides of the tin. Carefully slide the mousse
  off the base of the tin onto a serving plate. Whip the remaining
  cream until it is thick and pipe a decorative border on the mousse
  cake. Sprinkle with chocolate curls and chill well before serving.
  
  The Little Book of Chocolate ISBN 0-7858-0139-1
  Submitted By NANCY VAINE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Madras (hot) Curry Mixture
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Curries, Indian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Ground chilies (not chili
           -powder)
  8 1/2 ts Ground coriander seeds
    1/8 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Ground black mustard seeds
      1 ts Ground fenugreed seeds
      1 ts Ground black pepper
  1 2/3 ts Ground tumeric
      4 ea Who curry leaves
 
  Mix together all ground dry spices; then proceed according to recipe
  instructions; adding the curry leaves directly to the cooking pot.
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   0 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PLANKED PORTERHOUSE STEAK
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Porterhouse steak; cut 2"
           -thick
      2 c  Potatoes, mashed
    1/4 c  Butter; melted
           Salt & pepper; to taste
    1/4 c  Parsley, fresh; chopped
      6 sl Lime
 
  Procure a porterhouse steak of fine-grained texture, bright red in
  color and well-marbled with fat.  Trim off the excess fat and wipe
  with a clean cloth.  Heat a wire broiler, grease it with some of the
  fat, and broil the steak over a hot charcoal fire for three minutes
  on each side. Take a well-seasoned oak plank which has never been
  washed but which has been kept scrupulously clean by being scraped
  with a dull knife and wiped with good olive oil.  Lay the steak on
  the plank, surround with a border of fluffy mashed potatoes, and put
  in a hot (450 F) oven. After nine minutes, brush the potatoes over
  with the melted butter and salt and pepper the steak. Return to the
  oven for five minutes, remove, paint with butter, sprinkle with
  parsley, garnish with the slices of lime, and serve at once.
  
                                    -- The Nero Wolfe Cookbook
                                       by Rex Stout
  Submitted By SAM WARING   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PLANKED FILET OF SALMON
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Salmon fillet (skin 1 side)
           Pepper; ground to taste
           Oil
    1/2 c  Butter; melted
 
  Wash salmon in cold water, dry and season with pepper. Place on
  heated oak plank, skin down, and bake at 350/F 25-30 minutes. Baste
  with melted butter during cooking. If fish does not brown during
  cooking, place under broiler last 2 minutes.
  Submitted By SAM WARING   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry White Chocolate Mousse In Bittersweet Cs
 Categories: Chocolate, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      8 oz White Chocolate, Imported
      2 c  Heavy Cream
     12 oz Bittersweet Chocolate
      2 c  Raspberries, Fresh washed
           - and drained
 
     1. Melt white chocolate in a double boiler over hot --- not boiling
     --- water or in a glass bowl in a microwave on Medium about 2 to 3
     mins, stirring several times. In a medium saucepan, heat cream to
     boiling; boil 30 secs. Whisk cream into white chocolate until
     thoroughly blended and smooth. Refrigerate 5 to 6 hours, or
  overnight,
     until well chilled. 2. Meanwhile, prepare bittersweet chocolate Cs.
     Place 10 paper muffin Cs in muffin tins. In a microwave or over low
     heat, melt bittersweet chocolate until smooth and shiny when
  stirred.
     Using a table knife or pastry brush, coat inside of paper muffin Cs
     with melted chocolate. Be sure coating is not too thin, or Cs will
     break when paper is peeled away. Refrigerate until set and well
     chilled, 2 to 3 hours. Remove Cs from muffin tin and peel off
  paper.
     Place chocolate Cs on a baking sheet. Cover loosely and return to
     refrigerator. 3. Place white chocolate mousse in a large bowl. Beat
     with an electric mixer on high speed, until mixture is fluffy,
  stiff,
     and holds its shape when beaters are lifted, 4 to 6 mins. Do not
     overbeat. 4. Reserve some raspberries for garnish and gently fold
     remaing raspberries into white chocolate mousse. Spoon into
  chocolate
     Cs. Return to refrigerator and chill at least 1 hour and up to 4
     hours before serving. Serve garnished with raspberries.
  
     Note: White chocolate and raspberry mixture can also be served
  alone
     (without chocolate Cs) in stemmed glasses for an attractive
  dessert.
     NOTES : The section on making chocolate Cs is useful for many other
     unique desserts.
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mama's Cherry and Raspberry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Dips/spread
      Yield: 30 ounces
 
      2 c  Pitted cherries
      2 c  Raspberries
      4 c  Sugar
 
  Crush cherries slightly and cook until the skins are tender. Add
  raspberries and cook until the mixture begins to thicken. Add sugar
  and cook rapidly until thick. Cool slightly, pour into sterile jars
  and seal with parafin. Makes 5 (6 oz) glasses.
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Orange Squash
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Frozen cubed squash
      2 tb Orange juice
    1/4 ts Each salt and ginger
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts Grated orange rind
        pn Each nutmeg and pepper.
 
  In suacepan, bring small amount of water to boil; add squash.  Reduce
  heat to simmer and cook for 6 minutes or until tender; drain. Mash
  squash; beat in butter, orange juice and rind, salt, ginger, nutmeg
  and pepper. Makes 4 servings.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pear & Ginger Turnover
 Categories: Pastry, Pie/tart, Fruit, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Fresh ginger root, peeled,
           -sliced very thin, then cut
           -into very
           Fine dice
    1/2 c  Sugar, divided
      1 c  Cold water
  1 1/2 c  Ripe pears, peeled,
           -quartered, cored and sliced
      1 tb Pure vanilla extract
      2 tb Chopped fresh mint
           Pastry for turnovers
      1 ea Egg yolk
    1/4 c  Skim milk
      2 tb Coarse, granulated sugar
 
  Preheat oven to 425F.  In a medium saucepan, combine the ginger, 1/4
  cup of the sugar and the cold water.  Bring to a simmer over medium
  high heat and cook until tender, about 15 minutes.  Drain in a fine
  sieve. Transfer to a medium bowl.  Combine with the pears, remaining
  1/4 cup of sugar, the vanilla and the mint.  Meanwhile, place the
  dough on a lightly floured counter top.  Roll the dough to 1/8 inch
  thick slab. Cut into approximately ten 4-1/2 squares.  Spoon about
  2-3 tbsp of the filling mixture into the center of the pastry square.
  Repeat with the remaining filling and pastry. In a small bowl, whisk
  together the egg yolk and the skim milk. Brush the edges of the
  pastry with the mixture. Fold the pasry over to touch the adjoining
  edges to form a triangle. With the tines of a fork, press the edges
  of the pastry, snip a little cut to allow the cooking pastry to vent.
  Vrush the top of the pastry with the egg mixture. Sprinkle the top
  with the coarse granulated sugar. Transfer to a nonstick cookie
  sheet. Bake on the lower rack of the oven until golden, about 20
  minutes. Remove and transfer to a cake rack to cool. Serve warm.
  Serves 10. Calories 325, percent of calories from fat 42%, fat 15gr,
  pro 4gr, carbo 44gr, chol 85 mg, sodium 43 mg, Diabetic exchanges
  1-1/4 bread, 1-3/4 fruit, 2-3/4 fat. Not recommended for diabetics.
  Origin: Jimmy Schmidt's Cooking Class Column, Detroit Free Press,
  September 14, 1994. Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Oct/94.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon and Corn Flan
 Categories: Fish, Vegetables, Cake/cookie, Pie/tart
      Yield: 2 servings
 
           Pie crust
      2 tb Margarine
    1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      1 md Sized can kernel corn
      1 md Can salmon
           Finely grated rind of 1/2
           -lemon
           Salt and pepper
    1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
 
  Melt margarine, stir in flour, cook gently for 2 minutes, remove from
  heat. Add milk gradually, beating well.  Bring to boil, cook until
  thick, stirring continuously. Remove from the heat, stir in drained
  corn, flaked salmon, lemon rind, and seasonings, and pour into flan
  case. Sprinkle with cheese, return to oven or place under hot broiler
  to brown top. Origin: Marguerite Patten's recipe cards Shared by:
  Sharon Stevens
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HONEY-GLAZED BAKED SPAM
 Categories: Spam, Syrups, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn SPAM
           Whole cloves
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
           ++ Preheat oven to 375
           -degrees F.
           ++ Place SPAM in baking pan.
           ++ Score top and dot with
           -whole cloves.
    1/2 ts Vinegar
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      1 ts Water
 
  ++ Combine brown sugar, vinegar, mustard, and water.  (If desired,
  double these ingredients, and/or add more mustard to taste.) ++ Glaze
  ham with brown sugar mixture. ++ Bake for 35 minutes, basting
  periodically with brown sugar mixture.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Ham Kabobs
 Categories: Main dish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar, brown; firmly packed
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Orange juice
  1 1/2 lb Ham steak; fully cooked, cut
           -into 1" cubes
      1 sm Pineapple; peeled, cored and
           -cut into 1" cubes
     16 lg Olives, pimiento-stuffed
 
  Combine brown sugar, honey, and orange juice; mix well, and set aside.
  
  Alternate ham, pineapple, and olives on skewers.  Grill over medium
  heat 10 to 12 minutes, turning often.  Baste liberally with honey
  mixture after each turn.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, July, 1980. Typos by Nancy Coleman.
  From: Nancy Coleman                   Date: 05-31-94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Good As Gold" Chicken. (Like Kfc And Boston's)
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 tb Honey
      1 tb Lime juice
    1/4 ts Paprika
           -seasoned salt (to taste)
      4    Chicken breast halves
 
  Mix ingredients (except chicken) in a saucepan and warm just to melt
  honey. Arrange chicken breast-side-up in a square baking dish or pan
  and bake uncovered at 400 degrees about 35 - 40 minutes, basting
  pieces without turning them, 3 or 4 times during baking. Immediately
  upon removing from oven, seal baking dish or pan tightly in foil and
  let stand 15 to 20 minutes before serving. From: Suzze Tiernan Date:
  08 Apr 94 Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Waikiki Beach
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Whole Chickens legs or
      2    Whole chicken breasts
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Salad oil or shortening
      1    Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper

MMMMM---------------------------SAUCE--------------------------------
      1 cn (20oz) sliced pineapple
      1 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
    3/4 c  Cider vinegar (;see note)
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 ts Ginger (see note)
      1    Chicken boullon cube
      1 lg Green pepper,
           -cut crosswise in
    1/4    Inch circles
 
  Ideal for outdoor or indoor entertaining. If desired garnish platter
  with fresh lemon leaves available at florist shops. Serve with a
  tossed green salad.
  
  1.) Wash chicken; pat dry with paper towels. Coat chicken with flour.
  2.) Heat oil in lrg skillet. Add chicken, a few pieces at time and
  brown on all sides. (John cooks until almost done). Remove to shallow
  roasting pan, arranging pieces skin side up. Sprinkle with
  salt/pepper 3.) meanwhile, preheat oven to 350' 4.) Make sauce: Drain
  pineapple, pouring syrup into 2 cup measure. Add water to make 1 1/4
  cup. 5.) In medium saucepan, combine sugar, cornstarch, pineapple
  syrup vinegar, soy sauce, ginger and boulion cube; bring to boiling,
  stirring constantly. Boil 2 minutes. Pour over chicken. Bake
  uncovered, 30 minutes. Add pineapple slices and green pepper; bake 30
  minutes longer or until chicken is tender. Serve with fluffy white
  rice.
  
  From: McCall's card From: Michael Grosz Date: 08-06-94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Turkey with Gravy
 Categories: Main dish, Appetizers, Poultry, Microwave
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     12 lb Turkey
           Salt and pepper to taste
      6 tb Flour
           Salt and pepper
           Chicken broth
 
  1. If turkey is frozen it may be defrosted in the Microwave Oven
  (follow directions in your manual), or it may be defrosted by placing
  it in the refrigerator overnight or until thawed. 2. Wash turkey and
  pat it dry. Sprinkle inside cavity with salt and pepper, to taste. 3.
  Tie legs together. Tie wings and legs to body. 4. Invert a
  heat-resistant, non-metallic saucer or small casserole cover in a
  shallow, 10-inch, heat-resistant, non- metallic baking dish. 5. Place
  turkey breast-side-down on the saucer. 6. Heat, uncovercd, for half
  of cooking time, 3 minutes per pound (36 minutes). 7. Turn the turkey
  breast-side-up and continue cooking covered with a paper towel for
  the remaining half of the cooking time. (3 minutes per pound or an
  additional 36 minutes). 8. Insert a meat thermometer into fleshy
  portion of turkey, not touching any bones. It should register 160 F.
  DO NOT PLACE THERMOMETER IN MICROWAVE OVEN while cooking. 9. If
  temperature is not 160 F return turkey to Microwave Oven for an
  additional few minutes until correct temperature is reached. 10. Let
  turkey stand covered with aluminum foil at room temperature 20 to 30
  minutes to finish cooking. The internal temperature of the turkey
  should be 170F after standing. 11. While the turkey is standing at
  room temperature, prepare the gravy. The turkey should be removed
  from the roasting pan. 12. Pour the pan drippings into a bowl,
  leaving the residue in the pan. 13. Allow the fat to rise to the top.
  Skim off about 6 tablespoons of fat. Reserve pan drippings. (If there
  is not enough fat, add butter or margarine to make 6 tablespoons
  total. Discard any excess fat.) 14. Return fat to the baking dish.
  15. Blend in flour and salt and pepper, to taste. 16. Heat,
  uncovered, in Microwave Oven 4 minutes or until lightly browned. 17.
  Measure the remaining pan drippings and add enough chicken broth to
  make 3 cups. 18. Gradually stir liquid into flour mixture until
  smooth, scraping the sides of the pan to loosen any particles that
  stick to the pan. 19. Heat, uncovered, in Microwave Oven 14 minutes
  or until thickened and smooth. Stir occasionally during last half of
  cooking.
  
  Serves 12 to 16
  
  From _The New Deluxe Sharp Microwave Oven Cookbook_
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fish & chips batter #2
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Flour
           Salt
           Baking powder
           Water
 
  Well, I am not English but my wife hails from Suffolk England.  My
  brother-in-law actually ran a fish and chips shop in Lowestoft  and
  being part of the family was quickly shanghied into working in the
  shop.
  
  The batter is really simple.  Use self rising flour and just a little
  salt to taste.  If you like, you can add a little baking powder (this
  actually gives you a little more scraps).
  
  Mix the flour with water until you get a thin batter (a little
  thinner than pancake batter.)
  
  Heat your oil until it is just beginning to smoke (around 375 - 425).
  When the oil is hot, lightly bread the fish in flour. Immediately dip
  into your batter mix and then put it straight into the pan (while
  still dripping.) When the fish is golden brown, remove and let drain.
  I use a cake cooling grate.  this allows any excess oil to drip OFF
  the fish and not just to the bottom.
  
  Serve with fresh cut and fried chips, a good Malt vinegar, and salt to
  taste. If you want thicker breading on the fish, make a thicker
  batter. I prefer a light batter which gives you a thin crunchy
  breading.
  
  The english will travel 40 miles to a fish and chips shop which has
  the type batter they prefer.  Traditionally, they used beef dripping
  (beef lard) to fry in.  It did not leave the fish quite as oily as
  some of the new vegetable oils are.  the oil must also stay hot so it
  cooks the fish and batter and does not have a chance to absorb into
  it and make it oily.
  
  Fish could cook in about 4 to 5 minutes depending on how thick your
  fillets are.
  
  Submitted By BOB KNOWLES   MSG#: 187
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Fried Pork Chops
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4    Pork chops, trimmed of fat
      2    Eggs, beaten
      3 tb Water
    1/4 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Cornmeal
 
  Whip eggs with water.  Mix remaining ingredients and place on plate.
  Dip chops into egg wash, then into cornmeal coating.  Pan-fry in a
  bit of oil over medium heat until golden brown. From:
  Ranger@halcyon.Com Date: 10-29-94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Potatoes 2
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     24    Golf-ball-sized new potatoes
      3 qt ;Water
      1 tb Cayenne
      1 tb White pepper
      1 tb Black pepper
      1 ts Salt
 
  Wash potatoes and remove eyes.  Bring water to a boil in a large pot;
  add potatoes and spices.  When water boils again, cover the pot, turn
  heat to low, and simmer for 20-25 minutes until potatoes are fork
  tender. Remove and drain.  Serve immediately or refrigerate and serve
  chilled. Serve with Louisiana Barbecued Shrimp dipping sauces.
  
  Note: Leftovers are delicious sliced thin and fried in a little oil.
  
  Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
  
  From Ronni Lundy's "A Fine Mess" article in 09/23/90 "The
  (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal 'Magazine.'"  Pg. 18.  Posted by
  Cathy Harned. From: Cathy Harned                    Date: 11 Jun 94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Decadance:
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     12 oz Bittersweet choc
    1/4 lb Butter
      3    Eggs
    1/4    Cp sugar
    1/4    Cp flour
     10 oz Bag guittard large
           -semi-sweet choc chips
 
  CRUST:
  
  throw about 10 oreos into a food processor and grind 'em up melt
  about 4 or 5 TBS butter and pour into the cookie crumbs until it
  holds together when mushed. press the mixture into the bottom of a
  10" spingform pan.
  
  melt butter and choc. together beat the eggs and sugar together until
  light and fluffy stir the flour into the egg mixture until barely
  mixed pour the slightly cooled choc. mixture in while gentley mixing.
  fold in the chips
  
  pour the batter over the crust and bake at 425 for 15 min. From:
  Paris@gene.Com                  Date: 03-09-94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oatmeal Raspberry Bar Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 24 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter; room temperature
    1/2 c  Light brown sugar
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Baking soda
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Rolled oats
    3/4 c  Seedless raspberry jam
 
  Heat the oven to 350 degrees.  Butter an 8" square pan, set aside.
  Mix all ingredients together except the jam.  Press 2 cups of the
  mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan.  Spread the jam to
  within 1/4" of the edge. Sprinkle the remaining crumb mixture over
  the top and lightly press it into the jam.  Bake 35 to 40 minutes and
  allow to cool on a wire rack before cutting into 2 x 1-1/2" bars.
  
  From: First magazine, date unknown Posted by Karen Mintzias From:
  Karen Mintzias                  Date: 18 Feb 94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raspberry Sorbet
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 pt Ripe raspberries
    1/2 ts Raspberry vinegar
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      1 tb Framboise, optional
 
  Make a syrup by combining the water & sugar in a non-corrosive pot &
  bring to a boil.  Simmer for 5 minutes.  Remove from heat & let cool.
  Puree the raspberries in a food prcoessor & strain through a fine
  sieve to remove the seeds.  Combine the syrup, raspberries, vinegar,
  lemon juice & framboise. Freeze following the instructions for making
  Lemon Sorbet.
  
  VARIATION: Blackberry Sorbet.  Substitute blackberries for the
  raspberries, 1/2 ts balsamic vinegar for the raspberry vinegar & 1 tb
  blackberry brandy for the framboise.
  
  You can use frozen raspberries as well.  Double the amount of
  framboise & decrease the sugar to 1/4 c.
  
  Jim Tarantino, "Sorbets!" Submitted By EARL SHELSBY Submitted By EARL
  SHELSBY
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CAMARONES EN MOJO DE AJO
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Large shrimp, shelled and
           -de-veined
    1/2 lb Butter (the real stuff,
           -please), clarified
           8-10 cloves of garlic,
           -chopped
           3-4 Tablespoons fresh
           -parsley, chopped
 
  Heat the clarified butter in a large frying pan.  Add the garlic, and
  cook over medium heat until the garlic begins to brown.  Do NOT allow
  the garlic to burn, or it will be bitter.  Add the shrimp, and cook,
  stirring frequently, until it turns pink.  Top with chopped parsley.
  Serve with lots of French bread to sop up the garlic butter.
  
  Submitted By BILL JERNIGAN   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pollo Pepita
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Poultry, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
           POLLO PEPITA
           ============
      2 ea Large Chicken Breasts,
           -whole; skinned; halved
           -lengthwise
           And boned
      3 ea Tb All-Purpose Flour
      1 ea Egg; beaten
    1/4 c  Fine, Dry Bread Crumbs
      2 ea Tb Butter <OR> Margarine
        x  Pipian Sauce (see below)
        x  Mexicali Potatoes (see
           -below)
      2 c  Whole Baby Carrots; steamed
 
  Roll the chicken breasts in the flour to coat, then dip in the beaten
  egg. Coat with the bread crumbs. In a medium skillet heat the butter
  or margarine. Add the chicken breasts. Cook, uncovered, over medium
  heat for 25 to 30 minutes or till the chicken is tender, turning
  occasionally to brown evenly. Drain on paper towelling. TO SERVE:
  Place 2 tablespoons of the Pipian Sauce on each serving plate.
  Arrange 1 piece of cooked chicken, 1/4 of the Mexicali Potatoes, and
  1/4 of the steamed baby carrots atop the sauce. Garnish with
  cilantro, if desired. Makes 4 servings. PIPIAN SAUCE: In a blender
  container or food processor bowl combine 1/2 cup Chicken Broth, 1/2
  cup chopped canned Green Chilies, 2 tablespoons Pumpkin Seeds, 2
  tablespoons snipped Parsley, and 1 tablespoon sliced Almonds. Cover
  and blend until mixture is well blended. Transfer to a small
  saucepan; heat through. Serve warm. Makes 3/4 cup. MEXICALI POTATOES:
  In an 8-inch skillet let heat 2 tablespoons Cooking Oil. Add 2 cups
  frozen loose-pack Hash Brown Potatoes, 1/4 cup chopped Green Pepper,
  1/2 teaspoon Chili Powder, and 1/4 teaspoon salt; pat into skillet
  with spatula. Cook over low heat about 15 to 20 minutes or until the
  underside is crisp. Stir in 1/4 cup chopped Pimento; heat through.
  Makes 4 servings. PER SERVING: 506 calories, 49 g protein, 36 g
  carbohydrate, 24 g fat. From: Better Homes And Gardens: Low-Calorie
  Recipes Transcribed By: S. Lefkowitz
  
  Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Bavarian (Low-Cal)
 Categories: Desserts, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    2/3 c  Non-Fat Dry Milk Powder
    1/3 c  Sugar
      2 ea Tb Cornstarch
      2 ea Tb Unsweetend Cocoa Powder
      1 ea Envelope Unflavored Gelatin
    1/8 ts Salt
  1 1/2 c  Cold Water
      3 ea Egg Yolks; beaten
      2 ea Egg Whites
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Cream Of Tartar
      2 oz Frozen Whipped Dessert
           -Topping; thawed
 
  In a saucepan combine the dry milk powder, sugar, cornstarch, cocoa
  powder, gelatin and salt. Stir in cold water. Cook and stir over
  medium heat until thickened and bubbly. Stir about half the hot
  mixture into egg yolks; return all to the saucepan. Bring to a gentle
  boil. Cook and stir 1 minute more. Set the misture aside to cool. In
  a medium mixer bowl beat egg whites, vanilla and cream of tartar on
  high speed of electric mixer until stiff peaks form (tips stand
  straight). Fold in whipped dessert topping. Turn into a 4 or 5-cup
  mold. Chill several hours or overnight until firm. Garnish with
  additional whipped topping, if desired. Makes 10 servings. PER
  SERVING: 93 calories; 4 g protein; 12 g carbohydrate; 3 g fat. From:
  Better Homes And Gardens: Low-Calorie Recipes Transcribed By: S.
  Lefkowitz
  
  Submitted By SAM LEFKOWITZ   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken with Curried Rice and Almonds
 Categories: Diabetic, Poultry, Rice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Uncooked long-grain rice
      1 tb Curry powder
      2 ts Dry mustard
      2 tb Snipped chives
      1 c  Sliced almonds
      2 c  Chicken stock
  3 1/2 lb Broiler-fryer, cut-up
           Preheat oven to 325 degrees
           -F.
 
  Mix rice, curry powder, mustard, chives, and almonds in ungreased
  baking dish, 13 x 9 x 2 inches.  Heat chicken stock to boiling, then
  stir into rice mixture.  Arrange chicken pieces over rice.  Cover
  tightly. Bake at 325 degrees F. until chicken is tender and liquid is
  absorbed, about 1 hour. Yields: 8 servings Nutrient analysis of 1
  serving: 1 1/2 starch/bread exchanges; 3 medium-fat meat exchanges; 1
  fat exchange; 368 Calories; 27 g protein; 20 g fat; 20 g
  carbohydrate; 297 mg sodium; 56 mg cholesterol. Source: The Complete
  Diabetic Cookbook by P.J. Palumbo,M.D.,F.A.C.P(Mayo Medical School)
  and Joyce Daly Margie, M.S. (Mayo Clinic) Posted by Dar Rains
  
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Scented Almond Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
    3/4 c  Whole blanched almonds
  1 1/2 c  + 1 tablespoon sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
      2 tb All-purpose flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      3 lg Eggs
      1 ts Finely grated orange zest
      2 tb Orange liqueur
      5 tb Unsalted non dairy
           -margarine, melted and
           -cooled
           Powdered sugar
 
  This light and luscious cake needs no frosting, just a dust- ing of
  powdered sugar.
  
  INSTRUCTIONS:
  
  Preheat oven to 375'.
  
  Grease an 8-inch round, 2-inch deep cake pan.
  
  Line bottom with a round of parchment paper, waxed paper or foil;
  grease paper or foil.
  
  Combine almonds and sugar in a food processor and grind to a fine
  powder.
  
  Sift cornstarch with flour and baking powder.
  
  In a mixer bowl, beat 1 egg witH the ground almonds at low speed until
  blended.
  
  Increase speed to high and beat for 2 minutes, or until mixture is
  thick and smooth. Add remaining eggs 1 at a time, beating at high
  speed for 3 or 4 minutes after each addition. Scrape down sides of
  bowl occasionally.
  
  Beat in orange zest and liqueur.
  
  Sprinkle cornstarch mixture over egg mixture and gently fold it in.
  
  Gently fold in margarine in a thin stream. Transfer imme- diately to
  the cake pan.
  
  Bake for 28 to 30 minutes, or until a cake tester inserted into
  center of cake comes out clean. Carefully turn cake out onto a rack.
  Gently remove paper.
  
  Turn cake over so the smooth side is down. Let cool.
  
  (Cake may be kept, wrapped, at room temperature or in the
  refrigerator for 3 days, or it may be frozen.)
  
  Serve cake, smooth side up, at room temperature. Just before serving,
  sift powdered sugar over the top.
  PER SERVING: 265 calories, 5 g protein, 25 g carbohydrate, 16 g fat
  (3 g saturated), 79 mg cholesterol, 47 mg sodium, 1 g fiber.
  
  From an article by Faye Levy in the San Francisco Chronicle, 9/14/93.
  
  From: Stephen Ceideburg
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Sausage Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 lb Hot Italian sausage, cut in
           1/2 inch slices
      1 c  Chopped onions
      2 ts Oregano
      1 cn Cheddar cheese soup
      1 cn Tomato soup
      1 c  Water
      4 c  Cooked wide noodles
      4 oz Cheddar cheese, cut up
 
  In a skillet, brown beef, sausage and onion with oregano, until done.
  Stir to seperate meat, use shortening if necessary.  Pour off fat.
  Add soups and water.  Chill 1 hour.  In separate container, chill
  noodles. Combine meat and noodles.  Pour in 12 x 8 inch pan.  Cover
  and place in a cold oven. Bake at 400 degrees for 40 minutes.  Top
  with Cheddar cheese until hot and melted. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puffy Cheese Bake
 Categories: Casseroles
      Yield: 3 servings
 
     16 sl White bread, cut into cubes
      1 lb Sharp cheese, grated
    1/2 lb Butter, melted
      8    Eggs
      4 c  Milk (1 qt.)
 
  Arrange bread in buttered rectangular casserole, sprinkle with grated
  cheese and pour melted butter over cheese.  Beat eggs well; add milk
  and pour over bread mixture.  Refrigerate overnight and bake about 1
  hour at 350 degrees. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Burgers
 Categories: Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 md Onion, chopped
     12 oz Jar of chili sauce
    1/2 c  Mashed cooked pumpkin
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      1 ts Pumpkin pie spice
      1 cn Condensed tomato soup
 
  Combine ground beef and onion and brown lightly, breaking up meat
  with a fork.  Add remaining ingredients.  Cover and let simmer
  approximately 20 minutes; uncover and simmer 15 minutes longer until
  mixture is thick. Serve on buns. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-11-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ground Beef Chop Suey
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Chopped celery
 
  Cook the 3 ingredients together until celery is tender.  Add 1 can of
  cream of mushroom soup, 1 can cream of chicken soup, 1 1/2 cups of
  hot water, 1/2 cup of raw rice and 1/4 cup soy sauce.  Bake at 350
  degrees, covered, for 1/2 hour, then uncover and bake another 1/2
  hour. Put in a can of chow mein noodles on top and bake 15 to 20
  minutes longer. Randy Rigg Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yorkshire Dinner
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
  1 1/2 ts Salt, divided
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 c  Unsifted flour
    3/4 c  Milk
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Hellmann's mayonnaise
 
  Crumble beef into an 8 inch baking pan.  Sprinkle with onion, 1/2
  teaspoon of the salt and pepper.  Bake in a 425 degree oven for 10
  minutes. Remove. Stir together flour and remaining salt.  Add milk,
  stir until smooth. Beat together egg and mayonnaise, add to flour
  mixture, beat well. Pour over beef mixture.  Bake in a 425 degree
  oven for 30 minutes, or until golden. Pour off fat. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Macaroni and Cheese with Spaghetti Sauce
 Categories: Main dish, Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 lb Macaroni
      1 lb Lean ground beef
     15 oz Can of Chef-Boy-Ar-Dee
           Spaghetti sauce with
           Mushrooms
           Garlic salt, pepper, cumin,
           Oregano to taste
    1/2 lb Sharp Cheddar cheese, grated
      1 md Onion, chopped
 
  Brown ground beef, chopped onion together in nongreased frying pan.
  Season with garlic salt, pepper, cumin, oregano.  Add
  Chef-Boy-Ar-Dee's sauce. Simmer for 40 minutes.  Add more sauce or
  water if necessary. Boil macaroni; drain.  Alternate macaroni, sauce,
  cheese. Repeat. Randy Rigg Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Shrimp with Chipotle Mayonnaise
 Categories: Seafood, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8    Bamboo skewers
           -soaked in water
     32    Shrimp (small-to-med-sized)
           -peeled and deveined
      1 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2    Recipe Chipotle Mayonnaise
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  After preparing the shrimp (heads-on if you like), thread 4 shrimp pn
  each skewer about 1-inch apart, making sure the shrimp stay flat.
  Brush shrimp with black peppercorns and add salt and pepper to taste.
  Grill shrimp over a hot fire about 1 minute on each side. Serve
  topped with Chipotle Mayonnaise and chopped parsley.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 15
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun-Dried Tomato Rounds
 Categories: Appetizers, Tomatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Baguette
           Olive oil
      6 oz (2 jars) sun-dried tomatoes
      2    Garlic clove(s), minced
      2 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
           Fresh basil
 
  Cut the baguette into -inch-thick slices. Brush one side with olive
  oil and broil until the bread is golden and crisp.
  
  Pure the sun-dried tomatoes with their oil in a food processor or
  blender. Add the minced garlic and season to taste with freshly
  grated Parmesan cheese. Spread the pure on the baguette slices and
  garnish with fresh basil.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 16
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red and Yellow Bell Pepper Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lg Red bell peppers, roasted
      2 lg Yellow bell peppers, roasted
      2 tb Shallots, chopped
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 c  Chicken stock
      2 c  Heavy cream
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Keeping the colors separate, peel the roasted peppers, remove the
  seeds, and dice the flesh. Using 2 pans, saut 1 tbs chopped shallot
  in half the olive oil in each pan; add the diced pepper, the red to
  one pan, the yellow to the other, and saut for 2 minutes. Add 2 cups
  of chicken stock to each pan and cook over low heat for 10 minutes.
  Add 1 cup of cream to each pan and simmer the mixtures for about 5
  minutes. Add salt and pepper to taste. Separately, pure the mixtures
  in a blender until smooth.
  
  When both soups are made, pour them, using two ladles,
  simultaneously, into soup bowls, one color on each side. Serve hot.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 23
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey and Lime Vinaigrette
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 2 /3 cup
 
      2 tb Honey
           Juice of 2 limes
           -(about 3 tbs)
      4 tb Walnut or olive oil
      1 tb Sherry vinegar
 
  Combine the honey, lime juice. and vinegar, mixing well with a whisk.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 31
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey and Sherry Vinegar Dressing
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 1 /4 cup
 
      2 ts Honey
      2 ts Sherry vinegar
      2 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Combine the honey, vinegar, and oil, mixing well. Add salt and pepper
  to taste.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 33
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice and Corn Salad
 Categories: Salads, Rice, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 tb Sherry vinegar
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 c  Uncooked wild rice
      2 c  Corn kernels
           -(about 4 ears)
    1/2 c  Tomato, peeled
           -seeded and diced
    1/4 c  Basil, chopped
 
  Combine the olive oil and vinegar, add salt and pepper to taste, and
  refrigerate the dressing for 2 hours before serving.
  
  Boil the rice for about 45 minutes and let it cool.
  
  Cut the kernels off the cobs and blanch them in boiling water for
  about 5 minutes. Allow the corn to cool.
  
  Combine the rice and corn, and add the tomato and basil. When you are
  ready to serve the salad, add the dressing and toss gently.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 39
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Sea Scallop Salad with Papaya Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4    Papaya, seeds removed
      1 lb Med sea scallops
      3 c  (to 4 cups)
           -assorted salad greens
      1 ts Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste

MMMMM----------------------PAPAYA DRESSING---------------------------
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Lemon juice
      1 tb Papaya pure
      1 tb Basil, chopped
      1 tb Tomato, diced
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  The night before, prepare the papaya pure and marinate the scallops.
  Peel and coarsely chop the papaya, place it in a blender, and reduce
  it to a pure. Brush the scallops with 1 tbs of the pure (refrigerate
  the remaining tablespoon for the dressing) and marinate them in the
  refrigerator overnight.
  
  When you are ready to prepare the salad, wash and dry the greens and
  arrange them on salad plates. Prepare the dressing.
  
  Combine the oil, lemon juice, remaining papaya pure, basil and tomato.
  Season to taste with salt and pepper. Do not refrigerate the
  dressing. Use it at once, at room temperature. Makes 1/3 cup.
  
  Just before serving, brush the sea scallops with the olive oil, add
  salt and pepper to taste, and grill the scallops over hot mesquite,
  or charcoal, or saut them, for about 1 minute on each side. Do not
  overcook them. Arrange the scallops around the greens, pour the
  dressing over the greens, and serve immediately.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 40-41
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus and Cilantro Vinaigrette
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 1 1/4 cups
 
    1/2    Grapefruit
      1    Orange
      1    Lemon
      1    Lime
      1 ts Honey
      1 tb Sherry vinegar
      3 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Cilantro, chopped
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Juice the grapefruit, orange, lemon, and lime and combine the juice
  in a mixing bowl. Add the honey, vinegar, olive oil, and cilantro and
  mix well. Adjust the seasoning with salt and pepper. Refrigerate
  until ready to serve.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 69
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Papaya and Cilantro Salsa
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 2 cups
 
      1    Papaya
    1/2    Red bell pepper
    1/2    Yellow bell pepper
    1/2    Green bell pepper
      1 sm Tomato
           -peeled and seeded
      2 bn Cilantro, coarsely chopped
      1 tb Olive oil
           Juice of 1 lime
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Peel the papaya, cut it in half, and remove the seeds. Cut into -inch
  dice and place in a bowl. Finely dice the bell peppers and tomato and
  add them to the papaya. Add th cilantro, olive oil, lime juice, salt
  and pepper. Mix well and check the seasonings. Cover and refrigerate
  until ready to serve.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 83
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steamed Shrimp and Scallops w/Ginger, Basil and Orange
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Oranges
      8 lg Scallops
      8 md Shrimp
           -peeled and deveined
      2 ts Ginger
           -peeled and grated
      2 tb Basil, chopped
      5 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 c  White wine
      1 ts Shallot, chopped
      1 tb Sherry vinegar
 
  Zest, peel, and quarter the oranges. Place the scallops and shrimp in
  a bamboo steamer. Add the ginger, basil, orange zest, 2 tbs of the
  olive oil, and a dash of salt and pepper. In a steamer pan or a
  skillet that will accommodate the bamboo steamer, place the white
  wine, chopped shallot, and orange slices. Bring the mixture to a boil
  and steam the shrimp and scallops over it for about 5 minutes or
  until the seafood is cooked through.
  
  Serve with a green salad dressed with 1 tbs sherry wine vinegar and
  the remaining 3 tbs olive oil.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 110
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked John Dory with Cilantro Cream
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    John Dory fillets
           -(6oz ea)
    1/2 c  Dry white wine
    1/2 c  Shallots, chopped
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 c  Cilantro, chopped
           -plus extra leaves
           -for garnish
           Salt and pepper to taste
    1/2 c  Diced tomatoes
           -for garnish
 
  Preheat oven to 500F. Place the fillets in a deep baking dish.
  combine the white wine, shallots, cream and chopped cilantro and pour
  the mixture over the fish. Add salt and pepper if desired. Bake,
  uncovered, for about 7 minutes. Remove the dish from the oven and
  place the fish on serving plates.
  
  Pour the liquid from the baking dish into a blender and blend until
  it is creamy. Strain the liquid through a fine sieve and add salt and
  pepper to taste. Serve the fish with the sauce on top garnished with
  diced tomato and cilantro leaves.
  
  Note: if John Dory is not available use a mildly flavored fish such as
  halibut or swordfish.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 111
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yellow Hot Chile Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Chilies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Shallots
           -peeled and chopped
      4 md Yellow hot chile peppers
           -roasted, peeled,
           -seeded and quartered
      1 c  Dry white wine
    1/3 c  Heavy cream
  1 1/4 c  Butter (3 sticks)
           -cut in 1/2" cubes
      1 ts Chopped basil
    1/4    Lemon
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Combine the shallots, chiles and wine. Bring the mixture to a boil and
  reduce it until there is no liquid left; about 5 minutes. Add the
  cream and simmer for about 2 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat
  and whisk is the butter, bit by bit. Strain the sauce, add the basil
  and the juice from the lemon. Add salt and pepper to taste.
  
  Serve with steamed seafood. Garnish with additional yellow chiles if
  desired.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg
  112-113 Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Salmon with Jalapeo-Honey Glaze
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Salmon fillets
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 ts Jalapeo pepper, chopped
    1/4 c  Honey
 
  Cut the salmon into six 5oz portions. Season the fish with salt and
  pepper to taste. Combine the chopped jalapeo and honey and set the
  glaze aside. Spray a medium-hot grill with non-fat cooking spray and
  grill the salmon for about 4 minutes per side or until it is firm in
  the center. If a grill is unavailable, the fish may be sauted; it
  will take the same amount of time to cook. During the last 2 minutes
  of cooking, brush the uppermost side with the jalapeo-honey glaze. Do
  not turn the fish over after that or the glaze will stick to the
  grill.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 114
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus and Cilantro Salsa
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 2 cups
 
      4    Mandarin oranges
           -peeled and sliced
      2 tb Cilantro, chopped
      1 tb Red onion, finely diced
      1 tb Yellow, red or green
           -bell pepper, finely diced
      1 ts Jalapeo pepper
           -finely diced
      1    Tomatillo, diced
    1/2 c  Triple Sec liqueur
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Mix the oranges, cilantro, onion, peppers and tomatillo together,
  stir in the liqueur, and season to taste. Set aside for 2 hours
  before serving to allow time for the flavors to blend.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 117
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon in Parchment with Ginger and Lime
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Carrots, julienned
      4 md Leeks, julienned
      4 sm Celery stalks, julienned
      4    Salmon fillets (6oz ea)
      4    Pieces parchment paper
           -(8x12 inches each)
      4 tb Black olive pure *
    1/4 c  Tomato, peeled
           -seeded and diced
      4 ts Ginger, grated or
      1 ts Ground ginger
      4 tb Basil, chopped or
      1 ts Dried basil
      4 ts Lime juice

MMMMM-------------------CILANTRO BEURRE BLANC------------------------
      1 c  White wine
      1 c  White wine vinegar
      1 tb Chopped shallots
      1 tb Heavy cream
      1 lb Butter (4 sticks)
           -cut into 8 cubes
    1/4 c  Cilantro, chopped
 
  * substitute canned black olives that have been pured in the blender
  until smooth)
  
  Preheat oven to 400F.
  
  Blanch the carrots, leeks and celery together by dropping them into
  boiling water and removing them when the water returns to a boil.
  Place each salmon fillet in the center of a piece of parchment paper
  and spread 1 tbs of the olive pure over each piece of fish. Top the
  pure with some of the blanched vegetables, diced tomato, ginger,
  basil, and lime juice. Fold the two sides of the paper over the fish
  and its topping. Pick up the two ends and fold them over together,
  making a neat seam. Bake the parcels for about 15 minutes.
  
  Just before serving, make a small slit in the parchment and serve the
  fish hot, with cilantro beurre blanc.
  
  Cilantro Beurre Blanc:
  
  Put the wine, vinegar, and shallots in a skillet and reduce the
  mixture over moderate heat until the liquid is completely gone and
  only the shallots remain. Whisk in the cream and softened butter, 1
  cube at a time. Serve the sauce hot, but do not allow it to boil.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg
  118-119 Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broiled Salmon with Whole-Grain Mustard and Sage Crust
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Boned salmon fillets
           -(6oz ea)
      1 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Whole-grain mustard
      4 tb Sage, chopped or
      1 tb Dried sage
 
  Place the salmon fillets on a baking sheet and brush them with olive
  oil on both sides. Mix the mustard and sage together. Coat the top of
  each fillet with the mustard mixture. Broil the salmon for about
  12-15 minutes or until the mustard coating is lightly browned. Serve
  hot.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 122
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 cups
 
      1 c  White wine
      1 c  White wine vinegar
      1 c  Orange juice
      1 tb Lime juice
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Chopped shallots
      1 tb Heavy cream
      1 lb Butter, softened
           -(4 sticks)
      1 tb Orange rind
           -grated and blanched
      1 tb Lime rind
           -grated and blanched
      1 tb Lemon rind
           -grated and blanched
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Put the wine, vinegar, citrus juices and shallots in a skillet and
  reduce over medium heat until the liquid is completely gone. Whisk in
  the cream and the softened butter, 4 tbs at a time. Strain the sauce
  and add the citrus rinds. Serve hot with grilled fish.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 125
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Fish with Ginger, Lime and Cilantro Sauce
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 sl Ginger
           -peeled and sliced
      1 ts Chopped shallots
      1 c  White wine
      1 tb Grated ginger
    1/3 c  Heavy cream
  1 1/2 c  Butter, (3 sticks)
           -cut in 1/2" cubes
           Juice of 3 limes (3 tbs)
      1 tb Cilantro, chopped
           Salt and pepper to taste
      4 sl Swordfish or salmon
           -(8oz ea)
 
  Brush the slices of ginger with olive oil and place them on a grill,
  cooking until they are marked golden brown.
  
  To make the sauce, combine the shallots, wine, and grated ginger and
  bring the mixture to a boil. Reduce until there is no liquid left.
  Add the cream and bring the mixture to a boil again. Whisk in the
  butter, bit by bit. Take the pan off the heat and add the lime juice,
  cilantro, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the sauce aside in a warm
  place.
  
  Season the fish with salt and pepper and grill over high heat for
  about 4 minutes per side. Top each piece of fish with a slice of
  grilled ginger. Pour some sauce around the fish and serve hot.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 126
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Bell Pepper Cream
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 1/2 cups
 
      2    Red bell peppers, seeded
           -coarsely chopped
      2    Garlic clove(s), minced
      1    Shallot, minced
    1/2 c  White wine
    1/4 c  White wine vinegar
      1 c  Heavy cream
    1/2 c  Butter (1 stick)
           -cut in 1/2" cubes
           Salt and white pepper
 
  Combine the peppers, garlic, shallot, white wine, and vinegar in a
  saucepan. Bring the mixture to a boil and simmer for about 15
  minutes. Pure the mixture in a blender until smooth and return it to
  the saucepan. Add the cream, place over low heat, and simmer the
  mixture for 10 minutes. Slowly whisk in the butter bit by bit and
  adjust the seasoning with salt and white pepper. Strain the sauce
  through a fine sieve and serve hot with grilled fish.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 130
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Mushroom Cream Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Morels, chanterelles
           -shiitake, Portobello
           -or oyster mushrooms
           -or a combination
      4 tb Butter (1/2 stick)
      1 tb Shallot, chopped
    1/4 c  Dry white wine
      1 c  Heavy cream
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  Wash and pat dry the mushrooms, coarsely chopping the larger ones.
  Saut in hot butter for 4-5 minutes or until the butter has been
  absorbed. Add the chopped shallot; then add the wine and reduce until
  the liquid is completely gone. Add the cream and salt and pepper to
  taste. Simmer for about 2 minutes, stirring constantly. Add the
  chopped parsley just before serving. Serve with grilled chicken.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 133
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sherry Vinegar Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sherry vinegar
      1 tb Chicken stock
           -or chicken glaze
      4 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Boil the vinegar in a saucepan over high heat until it has reduced by
  half. Add the chicken stock or glaze and olive oil. Add salt and
  pepper to taste. Set the sauce aside over low heat to keep warm.
  Serve over grilled chicken.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 137
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chipotle and Apple Chutney
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 1 cup
 
    1/2 c  Sherry vinegar
    1/4 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      1    Granny Smith apple
           -cored but not peeled
           -and finely diced
      3    Anaheim or New Mexico chiles
           -roasted, peeled
           -seeded and diced
      1 ts Canned chipotle chiles
           -in adobo sauce or
      2 ts Dried chipotle chiles
           -pulverized in a blender
      1 ts Chopped garlic
 
  Combine the vinegar, sugars, apple, chiles, and garlic in a saucepan
  and bring the mixture to a boil. Reduce heat to low and cook until
  thick, about 10 minutes. Serve at room temperature with grilled
  chicken.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 140
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Chile Chicken with Pine Nut and Cilantro Butter
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Pure chipotle chile powder
    1/4 c  Plus 1 tbs chopped cilantro
      4    Boneless chicken breasts
           -with skin on (6oz ea)
      8 tb Butter (1 stick)
    1/4 c  Pine nuts
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Mix together the olive oil, lemon juice, chile powder, and 1 tbs of
  the chopped cilantro to make a marinade. Marinate the chicken breasts
  in this mixture for at least 2 hours in the refrigerator. Remove the
  chicken and save the marinade.
  
  Grill or saut the chicken over medium heat for 6-8 minutes per side or
  until it is cooked through. Set aside and keep warm while you make the
  sauce. Just before serving, remove the skin.
  
  In a skillet over low heat, blend the reserved marinade, butter, pine
  nuts, remaining  cup cilantro and salt and pepper to taste. When the
  butter has melted, serve the sauce over the cooked chicken.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 141
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Cornish Game hen with Chestnuts and Cranberries
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Cornish game hens (18oz ea)
      6 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper to taste
     12    Canned, peeled
           -whole chestnuts
    1/3 c  Cranberries
           -fresh or frozen
 
  Brush the hens with 4 tbs of the olive oil and season with salt and
  pepper. Grill over a hot grill for approximately 7 minutes per side.
  If a grill is unavailable, bake the hens in the oven at 450F for 15
  minutes. Remove and set aside.
  
  In a skillet over medium-high heat, saut the chestnuts in the
  remaining 2 tbs olive oil for 2-3 minutes. Add the cranberries and
  continue to saut for another 2 minutes, until the chestnuts are
  golden brown. Serve hot.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 144
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Bell Pepper Jelly
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 2 cups
 
      2    Red bell peppers
      2    Yellow bell peppers
      2    Green bell peppers
      8    Red serrano chiles
      2 c  Sugar
 
  Slice or julienne the peppers and chiles, but do not remove the
  seeds. Mix in the sugar and let the mixture sit overnight in the
  refrigerator. The next day, cook the mixture over low heat for 10-15
  minutes without adding any liquid. The peppers and chiles mixed with
  sugar will create their own liquid. Cool the jelly and serve at room
  temperature. Serve with rack of lamb.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 149
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cascabel Chile and Honey Glaze
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 1 1/2 cups
 
      4    Dried cascabel chiles or
      2    Jalapeo peppers
      1 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
      3 tb Tomato pure
      1 ts Paprika
      1 ts Ground cumin
 
  Rehydrate the cascabel chiles by soaking them in warm water for about
  2 hours before using them.
  
  Drain the chiles and place them with the honey, chicken stock, tomato
  pure, paprika, and cumin in a saucepan and simmer the mixture for
  about 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and pure the mixture in a
  blender. Brush on grilled pork tenderloin or grilled chicken.
  
  Note: if jalapeos are used, roast them and peel, seed, and dice them
  before simmering them with the rest of the ingredients.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 155
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Wine and Thyme Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 1/4 cups
 
      2 c  Red wine
    1/4 c  Thyme leaves
    1/4 c  Shallots, minced
    1/2 c  Veal stock
      1 c  Butter (2 sticks)
           -cut in cubes
 
  Combine the red wine, thyme, and shallots and reduce over medium heat
  until the liquid is gone. Add the stock and reduce over very low heat
  until cup liquid remains. Slowly add the butter, keeping the heat
  low, until the butter has melted. Strain the sauce and keep it warm
  until you are ready to serve it. Serve with meats.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 160
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chimay Chile Burgers
 Categories: Meats, Chilies
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      4    Anaheim or New Mexico
           -chiles, roasted
  3 1/2 lb Ground beef
           Salt and pepper to taste
      2 ts Pure chile powder
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 c  Shredded jalapeo-flavored
           -Monterey Jack cheese

MMMMM--------------------CHIPOTLE MAYONNAISE-------------------------
      2    Chipotle chiles canned
           -in adobo sauce
      1    Egg yolk
      1 tb Sherry vinegar
      1 tb Prepared mustard
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
           -to 1 1/2 tbs
           Salt
      1 c  Vegetable oil

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Tomato
           Red onion
           Avocado
 
  Prepare the chipotle mayonnaise and set aside. Peel the roasted
  chiles, then split them down the center and remove the seeds.
  
  Divide the ground beef into 16 portions and make patties. Season each
  patty with salt, pepper and chile powder, and brush with olive oil.
  Using two patties for each burger, place half a peeled green chile
  and cup shredded cheese between the patties and press them firmly to
  seal in the "filling" completely.
  
  Grill the burgers to desired degree. Serve in hamburger buns with
  chipotle mayonnaise garnished with slices of tomato, red onion and
  avocado.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 164
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Corn
 Categories: Vegetables, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Ears corn with husks
      4 tb Butter
      4 ts Pure Chimay chile powder
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Open the husks but do not peel them off. Remove the silk from the
  corn and wash the ears. Brush each ear with 1 tbs of the butter and
  sprinkle with 1 tsp of the chile powder. Add salt and pepper if
  desired. Wrap the corn back in the husks and tie the ends with a
  strip torn off the husk. Grill over hot mesquite or charcoal for
  about 45 minutes, turning the ears every 5-10 minutes. Serve hot or
  cold.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 183
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Onion Compote
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Red onions, peeled
           -cut into 1/2" dice
      1 tb Butter
      2 tb Sugar
    1/4 c  Sherry vinegar
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Saut the onions in the butter over medium-high heat for 5 minutes.
  Add the sugar and cook for 2 minutes, until the onions are lightly
  caramelized. Add the vinegar, salt, and pepper and cook for 5 minutes
  more over low heat. Serve warm.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 189
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Galettes
 Categories: Potatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Cooked mashed potato
    1/4 c  Olive oil
           -plus extra for frying
    1/4 c  Cilantro, chopped
      1 tb Medium-hot
           -pure Chimay chile powder
           -or regular chile powder
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Mix the potato,  cup of the oil, cilantro, and chile powder. Add salt
  and pepper to taste. Shape the mixture into 16 small cakes. To cook
  the galette, saut them in olive oil over medium-high heat for 1-2
  minutes per side, or until they are golden brown on each side.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 193
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Shallots and Tarragon
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     16 lg Shallots
      1 tb Butter, cut in small pieces
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
      2 tb Madeira or red wine
  1 1/2 ts Tarragon, chopped or
    1/2 ts Dried tarragon
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 pn Black pepper
 
  Preheat oven to 425F.
  
  Peel the shallots and cut part of the root end off, leaving enough of
  the root so that the layers of the shallot will hold together.
  Immerse the shallots in boiling water for 2 minutes and drain them
  thoroughly. Place them in a small shallow baking dish and dot them
  with the butter. Roast, uncovered, for 10 minutes.
  
  Mix the cream with the Madeira, tarragon, salt, and pepper and pour
  the mixture over the shallots. Return the shallots to the oven and
  continue to roast them for another 30-35 minutes, uncovered. Toward
  the watch, watch the dish carefully. If the cream sauce separates,
  whisk in a little water and additional cream.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 195
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice with Corn
 Categories: Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Wild rice
      4 c  Chicken stock
    1/4 c  Long-grain white rice
    1/2 c  Fresh or frozen
           -corn kernels, steamed
      1 ts Olive oil
      1 tb Tomato, peeled
           -seeded and diced
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
 
  Put the wild rice in a pan with 3 cups of the chicken stock. Bring the
  mixture to a boil, cover, and simmer until the liquid is absorbed,
  about 45 minutes.
  
  In another pan, put the white rice and the remaining 1 cup of chicken
  stock and cook it following the same procedure, about 20 minutes.
  
  When both rices are cooked, combine them and add the corn, olive oil,
  and tomatoes. Season with salt and pepper, add the parsley, and serve
  hot.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 200
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fruit Salad with Amaretto Cream Sauce
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 pt Raspberries
    1/4 pt Blueberries
    1/4 pt Strawberries
           -washed and halved
    1/4 c  Orange segments, diced
    1/4 c  Grapefruit segments, diced
    1/4 c  Granny Smith apple, diced
    1/4 c  Green grapes, pref seedless
    1/4 c  Peach, diced
    1/4 c  Apricot, diced
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Plus 1 tbs sugar
      1 ts Chopped mint
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      2    Egg yolks
    1/4 c  Amaretto liqueur
 
  Mix together all the fruit, the lemon juice,  cup of the sugar, and
  the mint. Cover and refrigerate the salad overnight.
  
  The next day, bring the cream to a boil and set the pan aside to cool
  slightly. Whisk the egg yolks and the remaining 2 tbs sugar together.
  When the cream has cooled, whisk in the egg and sugar mixture. Strain
  the sauce and stir in the liqueur. Serve in a small pitcher to pour
  over individual salad servings.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 209
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apples Baked in Parchment
 Categories: Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    McIntosh, Granny Smith or
           -Red Delicious apples
    1/4 c  Sugar
      4 tb Orange zest
      4    Vanilla beans
 
  Preheat oven to 350F. Cut apples in half horizontally and remove
  seeds with a melon baller. Place  tbs of the sugar into the cavity of
  each half apple and caramelize it (place the apples under a preheated
  broiler for 1-2 minutes). Sprinkle orange zest on top of the
  caramelized sugar.
  
  For each serving, place two apple halves on a 12x10-inch piece of
  parchment paper. Add 1 vanilla bean, which has been slit to release
  the seeds (do not scrape out seeds). Fold in the sides and close the
  top of the parchment paper, securing with a toothpick if necessary.
  Bake the apples for about 20-25 minutes. Open the packages (but do
  not unwrap the apples entirely) and remove the vanilla beans. Serve
  hot.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 213
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pears Poached in Red Wine
 Categories: Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Anjou, Bosc or other pears
      1 sm Orange
      6    Whole cloves
      4 c  Dry red wine
      1 c  Plus 2 tbs sugar
           1/2 stick cinnamon
 
  With a potato peeler, remove about half of the peel from the pears,
  leaving vertical strips of peel intact and giving the fruit a striped
  appearance. Stud the unpeeled orange with the cloves. Combine the
  wine, sugar, cinnamon stick, and orange in a stock pot. Bring the
  mixture to a boil and add the pears. Lower the heat to a simmer and
  cook the pears for about 30 minutes or until they are tender. Cool
  the mixture and chill the pears in the cooking liquid.
  
  To serve, put 1 whole pear on each serving plate with 1-2 tbs of the
  wine sauce around each pear.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 214
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jalapeo and Orange Chutney
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 5 cups
 
     10    Oranges
      2 tb Jalapeo peppers, minced
           -roasted, peeled, seeded
      2 ts Ginger, peeled and minced
      1 c  Sugar
      1 c  Water
      6 tb Honey
 
  Cut 4 of the oranges, unpeeled, into thin slices and set them aside.
  Grate the rind off one of the remaining oranges (there should be 1
  tbs orange zest) and squeeze the juice out of all of the oranges.
  Scrape the pulp out of the squeezed oranges and add it to the juice.
  
  Combine the grated orange zest, juice and orange pulp, the jalapeo
  pepper, ginger, sugar, and water in a large saucepan. Cook the
  mixture slowly until the sugar is dissolved. Add the honey and the
  orange slices. Simmer for about 15 minutes or until the sliced
  oranges are transparent. Keeping the orange slices intact, drain the
  mixture through a strainer, reserving the liquid. Set the orange
  slices aside and reduce the liquid over low heat until it has
  thickened; this will take about 30 minutes. Combine the reduced
  liquid with the orange slices; you should have about 5 cups.
  
  Bake in a pastry shell for a light, refreshing dessert or serve as a
  relish on bread or crackers, or over cream cheese with crackers for
  an appetizer. Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN
  0-89815-566-5 pg 230-231 Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange-Blossom Honey Cooler
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Orange-blossom honey
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Orange juice
      1 c  White rum
      1 ts Grated nutmeg

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      2 sl Orange, halved
      2 sl Lemon, halved
 
  Combine the honey, lemon juice, orange juice, rum, and nutmeg with
  ice and shake well until the honey is blended in. Serve  cup of the
  mixture poured over 1 cup ice to each person as a aperitif. Garnish
  each glass with half slices of orange and lemon.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 260
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Champagne
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Apricot liqueur
      1 ts Apricot brandy
           Champagne or sparkling wine
 
  For each serving, pour the apricot liqueur and apricot brandy into a
  champagne flute. Pour iced champagne on top and serve immediately.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 261
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Fruit and Champagne
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Strawberries
           -washed and hulled
    1/2 c  Raspberries, cleaned
    1/4 c  Red currants, cleaned
    3/4 c  Sugar
    750 ml Bottle chilled champagne
           -or sparkling wine
    1/4 c  Raspberry liqueur
 
  Place the fruit in a large pitcher and cover with the sugar in a
  layer. Allow the fruit to macerate in the refrigerator for 2-3 hours.
  Just before serving, pour a bottle of champagne over the fruit and
  add the raspberry liqueur. Serve chilled.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 262
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Citrus Wine
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3    Blood oranges
      1    Pink grapefruit
      1    Vanilla bean
      1    Stick cinnamon
      1 ts Tequila
    750 ml Bottle ros wine
      1 c  Sugar
 
  Wash but do not peel the oranges and grapefruit and cut them into
  quarters. In a large bowl, combine the citrus fruit, vanilla bean,
  cinnamon, tequila, and wine. cover and let the mixture steep,
  unrefrigerated, for 20 days. Keep the mixture in a cool, dark place
  such as a pantry or cellar. After 20 days, add 1 cup sugar and let
  the mixture stand for another 10 days. Strain the mixture, bottle it,
  and serve the wine at room temperature.
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 262
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beurre Blanc
 Categories: Condiments
      Yield: 2 cups
 
      1 c  White wine
      1 c  White wine vinegar
      1 tb Chopped shallots
      1 tb Heavy cream
      1 lb Butter (4 sticks)
           -cut into 8 cubes
 
  Put the wine, vinegar, and shallots in a skillet and reduce the
  mixture over moderate heat until the liquid is completely gone and
  only the shallots remain. Whisk in the cream and softened butter, 1
  cube at a time. Serve the sauce hot, but do not allow it to boil.
  
                                  Variations
  
  Ancho Chile Beurre Blanc add 1 tbs pure ancho chile powder serve with
  venison and wild boar
  
  Basil Beurre Blanc add cup chopped basil serve with seafood
  
  Chipotle Beurre Blanc add 2 tbs pured chipotle chile in adobo sauce
  serve with veal and mild-flavored game such as quail and rabbit
  
  Chive Beurre Blanc add cup chopped chives serve with mild fish such as
  halibut and sea bass
  
  Cilantro Beurre Blanc add cup chopped cilantro serve with seafood and
  tamales
  
  Dill Beurre blanc add cup chopped dill serve with salmon
  
  Italian Parsley Beurre Blanc add cup chopped flat-leaf parsley serve
  with mild fish such as halibut or sea bass
  
  Jalapeo Beurre Blanc add cup jalapeo pepper, roasted, peeled, seeded,
  and diced serve with lobster and shrimp
  
  Lime Beurre Blanc add juice and zest of 2 limes serve with chicken
  
  Tarragon Beurre Blanc add cup chopped tarragon serve with chicken
  
  Tomato Beurre Blanc add cup tomato, peeled, seeded and diced and 1 tbs
  tomato paste stir in cup chopped basil serve with basil pasta
  
  Whole-Grain Mustard Beurre Blanc add cup whole-grain mustard serve
  with veal
  
  Vincent's Cookbook by Vincent Guerithault ISBN 0-89815-566-5 pg 268
  Submitted By DIANE LAZARUS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: About Jams, Jellies and Preserves
 Categories: Dips/spread, Fruit
      Yield: 1 text file
 
 
  The less sugar you use the greater the flavor impact of the fruit. If
  honey is used there will be a flavor change and the jellies/jams must
  be cooked longer. If you use artificial sweeteners use only the
  Cyclamate type to avoid bitterness and follow the manufacturer's
  instructions. Cooked down jellies in which the juice is extracted by
  the open kettle method contain 60% fruit versus commercial products
  [pressure cooked to extract more juice but pectin destroying] with
  only 45%
  
  Jelly: has great clarity from dripping the cooked fruit through a
  cloth before adding sugar and finishing.
  
  Jams, Butter and Pastes: are whole fruit purees of increasing density.
  
  Marmalades, Preserves and Conserves: are bits of fruit in a heavy
  syrup.
  
  High Pectin Fruits: Apples, Crabapples, Quinces, Red Currants,
  Gooseberries, Plums and Cranberries. These need no additional pectin.
  If you get syrupy jelly you used too much sugar or did not cook the
  juice long enough after adding the sugar.
  
  Low Pectin Fruits: Strawberries, Blueberries, Peaches, Apricots,
  Cherries, Pears, Blackberries, Raspberries, Grapes, Pineapple and
  Rhubarb. These require combining with high pectin fruits or adding a
  commercial pectin.
  
  To Test Pectin Content: Put 1 tbl cooled fruit juice in a glass. Add
  an equal amount of grain alcohol and shake gently. The alcohol will
  bring the pectin together in a gel. If a large amount of pectin is
  present it will appear in a single mass or clot when poured from the
  glass. Use equal amounts of juice and sugar. If the pectin collects
  in several small particles use have as much sugar as juice.
  
  To sterilize jelly glasses: fill jars 3/4 full of water and place
  them in a shallow pan partly filled with water. Simmer 15 min and
  then keep hot until filled. If the lids are placed on the steaming
  jars they will be sterilized simultaneously.
  
  Tips: -Use enamel or stainless steel pots not aluminum or copper.
        -On average, use 3/4 c sugar to 1 c fruit or juice depending on
         pectin content[see above].
        -Very acid fruits can tolerate a whole c of sugar.
        -Sterilize jars and seal tightly.
        -For fruit that tends to discolor add lemon juice or Ascorbic
         acid.
        -Keep in a cool dark place but do not refrigerate.
  
  Making Jam: is easiest and most economical as it needs only one
  cooking step and uses the pulp. Measure the fruit. In putting it in
  the pan, crush the lower layers to provide moisture until more is
  drawn out by cooking or add a little water. Simmer the fruit until it
  is soft. Add sugar and stir until dissolved. Bring to a boil,
  stirring to avoid sticking. Reduce heat and cook until thickened- up
  to 1/2 hr.
  
  Making Preserves and Conserves: Place fruit in a pot with an equal
  amount of sugar in layers ending with sugar on top and allow to rest
  overnight. Bring slowly to a boil and simmer until fruit is
  translucent. Drain fruit and put in sterile jars. Simmer syrup longer
  if necessary to thicken it and pour over fruit. Seal and store.
  
  Making juice for jelly: Wash and drain fruit. Prick or crush the
  fruit. Add water if fruit is not juicy enough eg. apples. Add enough
  to the kettle that you can see it through the fruit but the fruit is
  not floating. Cook uncovered until the fruit is soft and loosing its
  color. Have ready a jelly bag [several layers of cheese cloth] . Wet
  it, wring it out and line a strainer with it. Let the juice drip
  through without squeezing it as this muddies and flavors the jelly.
  This juice can be kept up to 6 months before proceeding by freezing
  or canning it.
  
  Making jelly: Measure the strained juice and put it in an enamel or
  stainless steel pan. Simmer 5 min. Skim off froth. Measure and warm
  sugar in a pan in the oven and add it. Stir until dissolved. Cook at
  a gentle simmer until the point of jelling. To test, place a small
  amount of jelly on a spoon, cool it slightly and let it drop back
  into the pot from the side of the spoon. As the syrup thickens, 2
  large drops will form along the edge of the spoon. when these two
  drops run together and fall as a single drop the "sheeting" stage has
  been reached- 220 to 222 deg F and the jelly will be firm when
  cooled. It can take anywhere from 10 to 30 min for jelly to reach
  this stage depending on the fruit and the amount of sugar. Take the
  jars from the sterilizing bath and invert on a cake cooler. They
  should be hot but dry when filled. Fill to 1/4" from the top. Cover
  with melted paraffin 1/8" deep.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Canned Grapes
 Categories: Fruit
      Yield: 1 text file
 
 
  See "About Canning" for general tips and techniques.
  
  Use only good, sound grapes. Wash and stem. Bring to a boil in medium
  syrup. Cover with boiling syrup. Process 20 minutes in boiling-water
  bath. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-12-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deviled Salmon
 Categories: Main dish, Casseroles, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Salmon; canned
           Milk
      4 tb Butter (or marg.); divided
      2 tb Flour, all-purpose
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      8 dr Hot sauce
  2 1/2 c  Breadcrumbs, fine; divided
      1 tb Onion; grated
      2 tb Green pepper; chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs; hard-cooked, chopped
 
  Drain and flake salmon, reserving liquid.  Add milk to salmon liquid
  to make 1 cup.  Melt 2 tablespoons butter, and blend in flour.  Add
  salmon liquid gradually; cook until thick and smooth, stirring
  constantly.
  
  Add all remaining ingredients except 2 tablespoons butter and 1/2 cup
  breadcrumbs; mix well.  Spoon into 6 well-greased individual
  casseroles.
  
  Melt reserved butter, and toss with reserved breadcrumbs; sprinkle
  over casseroles.  Bake at 375 degrees about 20 minutes or until brown.
  
  SOURCE: Southern Living Magazine, May, 1974. Typed for you by Nancy
  Coleman.
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Williamsburg Lodge Orange Wine Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 1 cake
 
MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
  3 1/2 c  Sifted cake flour, divided
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Orange extract
      1 tb Orange rind, grated
      1 c  Raisins, finely chopped
      1 c  Pecans, finely chopped

MMMMM----------------------SHERRY FROSTING---------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter
  2 1/2 c  **Up To**
      3 c  Sifted confectioners sugar
    1/4 c  Orange juice
    1/2 ts Orange flavoring
        ds Salt
    1/2 ts Orange rind, grated
           Dry sherry (to get right
           Consistency)
 
  Preheat oven to 350
  
  Lightly grease and flour two 9 inch or three 8 inch round cake pans.
  
  Save out 1/4 cup of the flour for later.
  
  Cream the butter, shortening and sugar.  Gradually beat in the eggs
  and buttermilk alternately with the dry ingredients.  Add the extract
  and orange rind.  Scrape down the bowl and mix until smooth.
  
  Dredge the chopped raisins in that 1/4 cup of flour.  Add this and the
  pecans to the mixture.
  
  Pour into prepared pans.
  
  Bake for 30 mins for 9 inch layers, 35 mins for 8 inch layers or
  until cake tests done.
  
  Remove from the oven and cool five minutes, then turn out on racks to
  finish cooling.  When cool frost with:
  
  Sherry Frosting: (For two layer cake)
  
  Cream butter and the remaining ingredients except the sherry.  Add the
  sherry, approximately one teaspoon at a time to make the frosting a
  spreading consistency.  If the frosting is too thin, add more sugar or
  refrigerate it.
  
  For a three layer cake - double the recipe above.
  
  Williamsburg Book == Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md. ==
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yankee Corn Bread
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 tb Butter or margarine
      3 tb Honey
      2 c  Buttermilk
      2 lg Eggs, beaten
  1 3/4 c  Corn meal
      1 c  Whole wheat flour
    3/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
 
  Preheat oven to 350 F. Grease an 8 X 8 baking dish. Melt the butter
  and honey together in a small saucepan or microwavable dish. Add to
  buttermilk and eggs and beat well. Sift the dry ingredients together
  and add to buttermilk mix, combining well. Pour into greased dish and
  bake for 40 to 45 minutes at 350. Note: This cornbread tends to be
  more cake-like and moist, while Southern-style cornbreads tend to be
  drier and more crumbly (higher proportion of corn meal. Both are GOOD!
  Submitted By RICHARD DOUVILLE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Rosemary Potatoes
 Categories: Potatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Small red potatoes
           Olive oil
           Seasoning salt
           Dried rosemary leaves
 
  This a method more so than a recipe.  For those who require
  quantities, I recommend about 1/4 cup oil, about 2 tsp seasoning
  salt, and about 2 TBS dried rosemary leaves. Cut potatoes into
  quarters, about bite-size pieces. Do not peel.  In a large bowl, toss
  potatoes in oil to coat. There shouldn't be a lot of oil left in the
  bowl. Sprinkle with seasoning salt and rosemary leaves, then turn a
  couple of times to coat. Cover a large baking sheet with aluminum
  foil and spray LIGHTLY with cooking spray. Place potatoes on a single
  layer on the sheet. Roast in a pre-heated 400 degree oven for 45 to
  55 minutes, until golden brown and slightly puffed. You may turn
  potatoes once, after 25 minutes, if you wish. Serve ASAP from oven.
  If desired you may adjust seasoning (more salt) before serving.
  Submitted By RICHARD DOUVILLE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Liver a la Stockett
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Calf or baby beef liver
      1 lg Mild onion
           Flour for dredging
           Salt & pepper
           Oil for cooking
           Stock- beef or chicken - opt
 
  Heat and iron skillet over medium heat.  Add a little oil and heat.
  Meanwhile, peel onions and cut into THIN slices.  Place in oil and
  saute slowly until onions are light brown and beginning to
  caramelize. Remove onions from skillet.  Add a little more oil to
  skillet if necessary. Dredge liver - should be sliced thinly -
  lightly in flour and season with salt and pepper.  Turn skillet heat
  to high, and sautee liver until crisply brown on outside and still
  slightly pink (yes, medium rare!) on the inside. Turn liver slices a
  couple of times while cooking and regulate heat so meat doesn't
  scorch. Return onions to skillet briefly to reheat. A little stock
  (chicken or beef) may be used to deglaze the pan and create a
  flavorful gravy;  but don't simmer the liver past medium rare lest it
  become tough. Serve immediately, with roasted or mashed potatoes and
  a green vegetable. Submitted By RICHARD DOUVILLE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Grit Cake
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 c  Hominy grits
      3 c  Boiling water
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Cajun spice
    3/4 c  Cooking oil
    3/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Chopped onions
      3 tb Minced garlic
  1 1/2 c  Chopped bell pepper
      3 c  Peeled chopped tomatoes
      2 tb Cajun spice
           Optional chicken stock/water
 
  In a large saucepan slowly add the grits to the boiling water and
  season with salt and Cajun spice (I make my own, with at least a
  dozen different spices, but for the occasional user it is just as
  easy to find a blend at the market).  Cook the grits till done and
  pour into a greased 9 X 13 pan. Refrigerate severl hours or overnight
  till firm; this will be cut into 8 squares when ready to fry.
  
  Next, make a roux with the oil and flour (consult any Cajun cookbook
  as to how);  the roux may be light to dark brown, your preference. To
  the hot roux, add the onions and garlic and sautee till golden. Add
  the green peppers and tomatoes, bring to a boil, reduce heat and
  simmer. Add Cajun spice to taste, and add water or stock if necessary
  to keep from becoming too thick.  Final product should be the
  consistency of chunky spaghetti sauce, dark and spicy.
  
  Cut grits into 8 pieces, fry in some oil till golden, drain, and top
  with the sauce.
  
  Serve with plenty of yeasty bread and beer.
  Submitted By RICHARD DOUVILLE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Home-Smoked Salmon
 Categories: Fish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Salmon fillets or steaks
           Alderwood chips
           Chimney Smoker
 
  This is a method rather than a recipe.  The key is to use alderwood, a
  hardwood found in the Pacific Northwest, as the smoking wood.  It is
  my understanding that in the PacNW, smokehouses and seafood grills
  use GREEN alder twigs, but such things aren't available on the East
  Coast.
  
  Ready a chimney smoker (I made one out of a galvanized trashcan
  several years ago, but they are currently cheaper to buy than to
  make!) with a small amount of coals while soaking the alderwood
  chips. When the coals are glowing hot, drain the water from the
  chips, place the chips on the hot coals, get the drip catcher and the
  grate in place, and put the salmon directly on the grate.  Close the
  lid and leave it alone for 6 to 12 hours! The fish will cook at 130
  to 140 degrees, and will probably flake when removed from the grate.
  This is of a different flavor and consistency than your normal
  perception of smoked salmon. The fish may be served directly in small
  dishes with a fresh lemon wedge and a quality toast as an appetizer,
  or it can be mixed with a little cream cheese, sour cream, and lemon
  juice as a spread.  Use your imagination!!!
  Submitted By RICHARD DOUVILLE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Bean and Black Olive Salad
 Categories: Vegetables, Salads
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 lb Dry white beans, cooked
      1 c  Sliced black olives, drained
      1 c  Sliced scallions
      1 c  Diced red/green bell peppers
      1 c  Diced celery
      1 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Dijon mustard
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
           Salt & peper to taste
 
  Soak and cook dry white beans.  I use Great Northern beans, but pea
  beans or cannellini beans may be used.  Do not cook to mush, the
  beans should be done, but also should have some "tooth".
  Alternatively, you may use three 15-oz cans of cannellini beans,
  drained and rinsed; they will weigh out to about 2 pounds when
  cleaned.
  
  Combine all ingredients in a large bowl and turn to mix well.  Adjust
  seasoning to taste (dijon mustard, salt, pepper).
  
  Makes 8 to 12 side servings.
  
  I have combined this with chunk or solid white tuna for an entree
  luncheon dish.  Serve with grilled swordfish, shark, or tuna for a
  dinner dish. Makes 6 to 10 larger dinner servings.
  Submitted By RICHARD DOUVILLE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caramel Corn Flake Crunch
 Categories: Snacks
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     24    Kraft caramels
      2 tb Water
    1/2 c  Salted peanuts
      7 c  Corn flakes
 
  Place the caramels and water in the top ofa double
  boiler.Heat,stirring frequently until the caramels are melted and the
  sauce is smooth. Add the peanuts and mix well.Pour over the corn
  flakes placed in a large bowl and toss until well coated. Spread on a
  lightly greased cookie sheet.Let stand until firm.Break apart and
  serve.
  
  Typed by G.Major      07\13\95 From Aunt B's Collection or Labels and
  Newspaper
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab Rangoon (Like At the Landing - St. Louis)
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Fresh crabmeat, drained and
           -chopped
      8 oz Pkg. cream cheese at room
           -temperature
    1/2 ts A-1 sauce
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
           About 3 dozen won ton
           -wrappers
      1    Beaten egg yolk
 
  Combine first 4 ingredients. Mix to a pastelike consistency. Place
  rounded spoonful of mixture in center of each wrapper. Bring 4
  corners od wrapper together. Seal in egg yolk and pinch to seal. Deep
  fry at 375 degrees till golden brown. Serve with sweet and sour sauce
  or Chinese mustard. Leftovers do not keep well. Do not freeze. Serves
  4-6.
  
  Posted by Suzze Tiernan 3/19/95
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern-Style Creamed Corn (Microwave)
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      6 md Ears fresh corn
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 ts Sugar
    1/2 c  Half-and-half
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Coarsely ground black pepper
 
     Cut corn from cob, scraping cobs well to remove all milk.
     Place butter in a 2-quart casserole, and microwave at HIGH for 1
  minute or until melted; stir in corn, water, and sugar. Cover with
  heavy-duty plastic wrap.  Microwave at high for 3 minutes; stir well,
  and give dish a half-turn. Cover and microwave at HIGH for 5 to 7
  minutes or until corn is done.
     Combine remaining ingredients, and beat with a wire whisk until
  cornstarch is dissolved; add to corn, mixing well.  Cover and
  microwave at HIGH for 2 to 2-1/2 minutes or until thickened and
  bubbly, stirring at 1-minute intervals. Yield: 4 to 6 servings.
  
  From "Southern Living"  July, 1981 Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Okra & Tomatoes (Microwave)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Tomatoes, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Ripe tomatoes; peeled
      3 c  Sliced fresh okra
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
    1/4 c  Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Water
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 tb All-purpose flour
      2 tb Water
 
     Puree 2 tomatoes in electric blender or food processor; chop
  remaining 2 tomatoes.
     Combine okra, onion, green pepper, and 1/2 cup water in a 2-quart
  casserole; mix well. Cover with heavy-duty plastic wrap. Microwave at
  HIGH for 9 to 11 minutes or until okra is done; stirring and turning
  dish every 3 minutes.  Drain and rinse vegetables well, reserving
  vegetables in dish.
     Add chopped tomatoes, tomato puree, sugar, salt, and pepper to okra
  mixture; mix well.  Cover casserole with heavy-duty plastic wrap, and
  microwave at HIGH for 3 minutes.
     Combine flour and 2 tablespoons water; beating with a wire whisk
  until flour is dissolved; gradually stir into okra mixture. Cover and
  microwave HIGH for 1-1/2 to 2-1/2 minutes or until mixture is
  thickened and bubbly, stirring at 1-minute intervals.  Yield: 4 to 6
  servings.
  
  "Southern Living"  July, 1981 Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Black-Eyed Peas (Microwave)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Microwave
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Shelled fresh black-eyed
           -peas
      3 sl Bacon; chopped
      1 c  Water
      1 md Onion; chopped
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground red pepper
      1 ea Bay leaf
 
     Combine all ingredients in a 2-quart casserole; mixing well. Cover
  with heavy-duty plastic wrap.  Microwave at HIGH for 4 minutes; stir
  well. Cover and microwave at MEDIUM for 20 to 25 minutes, stirring
  every 5 minutes. Let stand, covered, for 5 minutes. Discard bay leaf.
  Yield: 4 servings
  
  July, 1981 "Southern Living"   Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Squash Medley (Microwave)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Yellow squash; sliced
      1 md Zucchini; sliced
      1 md Onion; sliced & separated
           -into rings
    1/4 c  Water
      1 md Tomato; chopped
      2 tb Chopped fresh parsley
    1/4 ts Dried whole oregano
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
 
     Combine first 4 ingredients in a 2-quart casserole; cover with
  heavy-duty plastic wrap. Microwave at HIGH for 5-1/2 to 7-1/2 minutes
  or until squash is crisp-tender; stir and give dish a half-turn after
  3 minutes.  Drain well.
     Add remaining ingredients, except cheese, to squash; mix well.
  Cover and microwave at HIGH for 2 to 3 minutes or until thoroughly
  heated and squash is desired degree of doneness.  Sprinkle with
  cheese, tossing gently.
  
  [Hint: Consider adding more black pepper before serving.]
  
  Recipe from July, 1981 "Southern Living" Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pig Out Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Edna Mays, Lebanon, Pa.
      1 ea Yellow cake mix with pudding
      1 ea 16 oz. can Mandarin Oranges
           -& juice  9 oz. whipped
           -topping
      4 ea Eggs
    1/2 c  Oil

MMMMM-------------------TOP WITH THE FOLLOWING------------------------
      1 pk Instant vanilla pudding
      9 oz Drained crushed pineapple
 
  Beat together ingredients.  Bake in    Beat and spread on top of
  cake. 350 degrees oven until cake tests      Refrigerate done. From:
  Lancaster Farming Shared By: Pat Stockett
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ciorba de Pui (Sour Chicken Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Romanian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Frying chicken, cut up
      1 tb Salt
      1 x  Whole onion
      2 x  Celery stalks
      1 x  Few black peppercorns
      2 x  Pkgs. frozen mixed veggies
      1 ts Tarragon, chopped
      1 tb Parsley, chopped
      3 tb Sour cream
      1 x  Juice of 1 lemon
      3 x  Egg yolks
 
  Cover chicken with cold water in a large pot, add salt and bring to a
  boil. When foam starts to form, remove as much as possible, lower the
  heat and boil gently for 15 to 20 minutes. Add whole onion, celery
  and pepper. Let boil another half hour or until the meat is cooked.
  Meanwhile prepare veggies according to package directions then add to
  the soup from which you have removed the celery and onion. Add
  tarragon and parsley and let boil 10 min more. In a large bowl beat
  together the egg yolks, sour cream and lemon juice; add the soup to
  this mixture very slowly, just a little at a time. Stir constantly
  until it is all blended. Do not boil again. Submitted By MARK MIKLAS
   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Supa de Tarcan (Tarragon Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Romanian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Veal or lamb
      1 x  Onion, chopped
      2 x  Celery stalks, chopped
    1/4 c  Tarragon, fresh, chopped
      1 pt Sour cream
      1 tb Flour
      1 qt Water
      1 x  Salt & pepper, to taste
 
    Place meat in a pot to boil, removing foam as it boils. Add onion,
  tarragon and celery to soup when meat is boiled. Make a paste of sour
  cream and flour, adding a little soup to thin, then return to soup.
  Add salt & pepper.
  Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ciorba de Zarzavat (Vegetable Chowder)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Romanian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Veal shank, quartered
    1/4 lb Wax or green beans, fresh
      1 x  Green pepper
      1 c  Chopped cabbage
      2 c  Carrots, diced
      1 c  Green peas
      2 x  Parsley roots, diced
      2 x  Parsnips, diced
      2 c  Potatoes, diced
      3 x  Whole large onion
    1/4 lb Butter
           Sour cream
 
    Boil veal shank with onions in 2 qts water and salt to taste.
  Remove foam as it forms.  Saute vegetables in a quarter pound of
  butter until tender. When veal is almost done, add vegetables and
  boil together until cooked well. Taste and adjut seasonings. Add the
  juice of 1 lemon or more according to taste. When ready to serve,
  remove meat from bones and to each plate add one heaping tablespoon
  of sour cream Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Varza Acra Calita (Braised Sauerkraut)
 Categories: Vegetables, Romanian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 lb Bacon, cut in small pieces
      1 c  Onion, minced
      1 cn No.3 can sauerkraut
      1 c  Water
 
    Fry the bacon, add onion and brown slightly. Squeeze excess water
  from sauerkraut and add to bacon & onion. Add water and let simmer
  until all water has evaporated. Be sure not to let it scorch pan.
  Serve hot. Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mustcola
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Sausage, Pasta, Vegetables
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 tb Bacon drippings
      2 c  Onion, chopped
      2 md Sized green peppers, seeded
           And chopped
    1/4 lb Mushrooms, thinly sliced
    3/4 lb Ground round
      1 ts Bulk sausage spice
      1 ts Chili powder
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 lb Can of tomatoes
    1/4 lb Elbow macaroni, cook & drain
    1/4 lb Bulk sausage
 
  Heat bacon drippings in a large kettle or Dutch oven.  Add onions and
  green peppers, stir fry until tender.  Add mushrooms and stir fry 5
  minutes; add beef and sausage; stir fry, breaking up clumps with a
  spoon, until meat is no longer pink, stir in chili powder, salt and
  pepper. Add tomatoes; simmer, uncovered, about 30 minutes.  Stir in
  macaroni, heat just until bubbly hot. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blueberry Peach Coffee Cake
 Categories: Pastry, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 pk Duncan Hines blueberry
           Muffin mix
      1 lb Can sliced peaches
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Butter
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees.  Wash blueberries and drain peaches.
  Spread fruit on paper towels.  In a small bowl, combine sugar, flour,
  cinnamon. Cut in butter and set aside.  Mix muffin batter as directed
  on label EXCEPT do not fold in blueberries.  Spread batter in a
  greased 8 inch square pan. Top with drained blueberries and peaches.
  Sprinkle cinnamon mixture over the fruit and bake at 400 degrees for
  25 minutes. Randy Rigg Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carnitas Di Amigos
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Pork tenderloin
           -cut into medallions
      2 c  Karo syrup
      2 c  Chili sauce
      2 c  Chicken stock
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
      1 c  Soy sauce
      1 c  Pineapple juice
      1 c  White wine
      2 oz Tabasco sauce
           -Garlic powder
           -Black pepper
           -Seasoned flour
      1 bn Chopped scallions
 
  1. Marinate:  Combine equal amounts of soy sauce, pineapple juice and
  white wine.  2. Place pork medallions in marinate for one hour. 3.
  Combine equal amounts of Karo syrup, chili sauce and chicken stock in
  saucepan and bring to a boil.  Reduce to simmer for 1/2 hour until it
  comes to a glaze. Season with Tabasco  sauce, black pepper, garlic
  powder to taste. 4. Dredge marinated pork medallion in seasoned
  flour. 5. Heat soy bean oil in skillet, saute dredged pork medallions
  in oil for 2 minutes on one side, turn, add sliced mushrooms and
  saute for 3 minutes. 6. Drain oil, add glaze, simmer for 2 minutes.
  7. Serve over rice and garnish with chopped scallions.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanut Butter Pie #3
 Categories: Diabetic, Chocolate, Pie/tart, Desserts
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Hot water;
    1/4 c  Creamy Peanut Butter;
      1 oz Chocolate;
      2 tb Granulated Sugar Replacemant
  1 1/4 c  Skim evaporated milk;
      3 tb Flour;
      3 tb Cornstarch;
      2    Egg yolks,slightly beaten
      1 ts Vanilla extract;
      9    Inch pie shell, baked;
 
  Combine water, peanut butter and baking chocolate in top of double
  boiler. Cook and stir over simmering water until peanut butter and
  chocolate are melte.  Stir in sorbitoled and granulated sugar
  replacement. In a bowl, blend milk, flour and cornstarch together
  until smooth; gradually pour small amount of chocolate mixture.  Cook
  and stir 2 minutes longer. Remove from heat; stir in vanill.  Cool
  and stir 2 minutes longer. Remove from heat; stir in vanilla.  Cool
  slightly. Pour into baked pie shell. Chill in refrigerator until sit,
  at least 2 hours.
  
  Food exchange per serving:  1 HIGH-FAT MEAT EXCHANGE + 1 FAT EXCHANGE
  + 1/2 FRUIT EXCHANGE + PIECRUST EXCHANGE
  
  Source: The Diabetic Chocalate Cookbook by Mary Jane Finsand
  
  Brought to you and yours via Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Vegetables Pizza-Style with Lime Vinaigrette-Hb
 Categories: Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------FOR VEGETABLES----------------------------
      2 md Eggplants, about 1 1/2 to
           -2 lb, cut into 1/4-inch
           -slices
      3 md Zucchini, cut into 1/4-inch
           -slices
           Salt to taste
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      2 md Onions, thinly sliced
      2    Red or yellow bell peppers,
           -seeded and thinly sliced
      4    Garlic cloves, peeled and
           -minced
  1 1/2 c  Fresh or canned tomatoes,
           -seeded, drained, and cut
           -into thin strips
    2/3 c  Vegetable, chicken, or beef
           -stock
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil or
      1 ts Dried
      2 tb Chopped flesh thyme or
      1 ts Dried
           Freshly ground black pepper

MMMMM--------------------FOR LIME VINAIGRETTE-------------------------
    1/4 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Vegetable oil
    1/4 c  Freshlime'uice
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Dijon mustard
           Salt & freshly ground black
           -pepper to taste
 
  Prepare vegetables: Place eggplant and zucchini in a colander and
  sprinkle liberally with salt. Allow to drain for 30 minutes.
  
  Pat the eggplant and zucchini dry. Brush the eggplant slices lightly
  with some of the oil. Set aside.
  
  In a large skillet over medium-high heat, heat 3 T  of the oil. Add
  the onions and peppers and saute until soft. Add the garlic and cook
  for 1 minute. Set aside.
  
  Liberally brush the bottom of a 14-inch-diameter pizza pan with oil.
  Arrange the egg-plant slices in an overlapping pattern to cover the
  bottom. Arrange the zucchini in the same way on top of the eggplant.
  Sprinkle with the onion-and-pepper mixture, then the tomatoes.
  Sprinkle evenly with the stock, herbs, and any remaining oil. Season
  with salt and pepper to taste. Bake in a preheated 350'F oven until
  the eggplant is tender, about 50 to 60 minutes.
  
  Prepare vinaigrette: Combine all ingredients and whisk well.
  
  Remove vegetables from oven, let cool for 10 minutes before serving.
  Slice into wedges like a pizza and serve with lime vinaigrette.
  Serves 8 to 10.
  
  House Beautiful/Sept/94  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paint Lick Country Fried Rabbit and Gravy
 Categories: Game
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2    Young rabbits
      2    Egg yolks, slightly beaten
      1 c  Buttermilk
      1 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Yellow cornmeal
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Lard
 1 1/16 c  Milk
      1 ts Pepper
           Salt to taste
 
  Wash rabbit and thoroughly disjoint. Combine yolks and buttermilk,
  gradually add 3/4 cup of the flour, cornmeal, and salt. Beat until
  smooth. Heat lard in a frying pan to 360 degrees.
  
  Dip rabbit in batter and fry in lard, 7 minutes on each side. Reduce
  heat to 275 degrees and cook, turning frequently, until rabbit is
  tender, about 30 more minutes. Remove rabbit and drain on brown
  paper. Pour off all but 2 teaspoons of lard in pan. Over medium heat
  slowly stir remaining 1/4 cup of flour into lard, scraping up pieces
  of crust from bottom of pan. When smooth, gradually stir in milk.
  Bring to a boil and cook, stirring constantly, until gravy is smooth
  and thickened, about 3 minutes. Add a little more milk if gravy seems
  too thick. Remove from heat, add pepper, then salt to taste. Pour
  into a pitcher and serve with rabbit.
  
  Serves 6-8
  
  Nutritional Information per serving:  xx calories, xx gm protein, xx
  gm carbohydrate, xx gm fat,  x% Calories from fat,  x mg chol, xx mg
  sodium, x g dietary fiber
  
  Posted on GEnie Food & Wine RT Jun 09, 1993 by COOKIE-LADY [Cookie]
  
  MM by MMCONV and Sylvia Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253,
  GT Cookbook echo moderator at net/node 004/005 From: Sylvia Steiger
  Date: 27 Mar 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Schnitzel
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Dried Bread Crumbs
    1/8 ts Paprika
    1/8 ts Garlic Powder
      3 tb Vegetable Oil
      4    Chicken Cutlets, pounded to
           1/8" thickness
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
      1 c  Onion, diced
      2    Apples, cored, pared and
           Thinly sliced
  1 1/2 c  Chicken Broth4
      4 c  Sauerkraut
      4 tb Raisins
      2    Lemons, thinly sliced
 
  On plate, combine 4 Tblsp. flour with salt and pepper. On second
  plate, combine bread crumbs, paprika and garlic powder. In large
  skillet, heat oil; dredge each cutlet in seasoned flour, dip in
  beaten egg. Then coat in bread crumbs, then place in skillet. Quickly
  brown chicken on both sides, about 2 minutes per side. Remove chicken
  to plate and keep warm. In same skillet, combine onion and apple and
  saute over medium heat until softened, about 5 minutes. Sprinkle
  remaining flour over mixture and stir to combine. Gradually stir in
  broth and, stirring constantly, bring to boil. Reduce heat and let
  simmer until mixture thickens, about 5 minutes. Stir in sauerkraut
  and raisins and cook, stirring, until mixture is heated through. To
  serve, spoon sauerkraut mixture onto the center of serving plate and
  surround with chicken pieces; garnish chicken with lemon slices.
  From: Anne Marie Chiappetta           Date: 25 Jul 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Barley Stuffed Peppers
 Categories: Vegetables, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 md Pepper green
      1 c  Onion chopped
      1 tb Garlic clove minced
    1/4 ts Thyme, ground
      1 c  Barley, dry
      8 oz Tomato Sauce, canned
      1 oz Cheddar Cheese
 
  cut top and stem off the peppers. clean out seeds and inside ribs.
  chop onion into course cubes. cook the barley
  
  per box instructions. pre-heat an oven to 350 degrees. bring water to
  a boil in a pot big enough to hold the four peppers. add peppers to
  boiling water for about 2 or 3 minutes or until crisp-tender (not
  soft). stir fry the onions, garlic, and spices over medium heat for
  about 7 minutes. grate the cheddar cheese. stir in the barley, grated
  cheddar cheese and tomato sauce and mix well then remove from heat.
  place peppers in an 8 inch glass pie dish. fill peppers with mixture,
  cover them with foil and bake in the oven for 25 to 30 minutes ---end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Tomato Rice W/Herbs
 Categories: Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Rice, basmatti
      2 ts Paprika
    1/2 oz Tomato paste canned, low
           Salt
      2 tb Basil
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Aspeseta
      2 tb Parsley dried
  1 3/4 c  Water
      2 md Tomato raw
 
  Chop the tomatoes into 1/2" cubes. In a deep frying pan put in the
  olive oil and saute' the rice and aspeteta for about 5 minutes until
  the rice turns clear. In another pot boil about 1 3/4 cups of water
  adding the basil, tomato paste, salt and paprika. When at a full boil
  added the rice and stir well. Turn heat to low and cook covered for
  15 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand another 15 minutes for
  rice to finish. Fold in the tomatoes and parsely just before serving.
  ~--end Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Cabbage W/Noodles
 Categories: Vegetables, Main dish, Pasta
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 oz Noodles, uncooked
      1 md Onion
      4 c  Cabbage
      1 ts Caraway seed
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
 
  Cook and drain the egg noodles. Wash and chop up the cabbage. Dice the
  onion. Saute' the onion in a large fry pan adding the spices along
  the way until onion is soft. Add the chopped cabbage and cook
  stirring occasionally until cabbage wilts. Stir in the noodles and
  heat through. Add a dab of sour cream just before serving.
  
  ~--end
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pitcaithly  Bannock
 Categories: Breads, Desserts, Scot/irish
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      8 oz Flour
      4 oz Butter
      2 oz Caster sugar
      1 oz Almonds; chopped
      1 oz Fruit peel; mixed, candied
 
  Set oven to 325F or Mark 3.  Grease a baking sheet.  Sift the flour
  into a bowl.  Add the sugar and butter and rub in to form a dough.
  Add the almonds and the mixed candied fruit peel, making sure they
  are evenly distributed. Form into a thick round on a lightly floured
  surface and prick all over with a fork.  Place on the sheet and bake
  for about 45 to 60 minutes. Allow to cool and serve sliced thinly and
  buttered. **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes --  Johanna Mathie  ** **
  ISBN = 1 898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Petticoat Tails
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      8 oz Flour
      4 oz Corn or rice flour
      4 oz Butter
      4 oz Icing sugar
           Caster sugar for dredging
 
  Set the oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease a baking sheet.  Cream the
  butter and icing sugar together in a bowl.  Sift in the flours and
  work into a smooth dough.  Divide into two.  Roll out on a floured
  surface and shape into two thin rounds.  Place on the sheet and prick
  all over with a fork. Mark each round into six triangles.  Bake for
  about 20 to 25 minutes until pale golden in colour.  Sprinkle with
  caster sugar while still warm. Cut into the triangles and cool on a
  wire rack.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Gingerbread
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breads, Desserts
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
    1/2 lb Apples; cooking
           Sugar to taste
      3 oz Demerara sugar
    1/4 lb Golden syrup
      3 oz Butter
      6 oz Flour; self-rising
      1 ts Ginger; ground
    1/4 ts Cloves; ground
      1    Egg
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease an 8x6-inch baking tin.  Peel,
  core and slice the apples.  Put into a pan with a little water and
  sufficient sugar to taste.  Stew gently until tender, then mash and
  cool. In a separate pan melt the syrup and butter and demerara sugar
  together gently until dissolved.  Leave to cool.  Sift the flour,
  ginger, and cloves into a bowl and make a well in the centre.  Add
  the egg to the syrup mixture and beat well into the flour.  Stir in
  the mashed apples and continue to beat all well together.  Turn into
  the tin and cook for 30 minutes until firm. Leave to stand for a few
  minutes in the tin before turning out to cool on a wire rack; cut
  into slices.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scot's Buttermilk Bread
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      1 lb Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      1 oz Butter
      2 c  Buttermilk
 
  Set oven to 425 F or Mark 7.  Grease and flour a baking sheet. Mix
  all the dry ingredients together in a bowl. Lightly rub in the
  butter. Add the buttermilk and mix into a light, soft dough. Divide
  into two and shape into rounds on a lightly floured surface. Place
  the rounds on the baking sheet and bake for about 20 minutes. Serve
  sliced with butter.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipe  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Abernathy Biscuits
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breakfast, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      8 oz Flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      3 oz Caster sugar
    1/2 ts Caraway seeds (opt)
      1    Egg; beaten
      1 tb Milk
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease a baking sheet. Sift the flour
  and baking powder into a bowl. Rub in the butter well until the
  mixture resembles breadcrumbs.  Add the sugar and the caraway seeds
  (if required). Add the beaten egg and the milk and mix thoroughly
  until it forms a sticky dough.  Turn the dough on to a floured
  surface and roll out thinly. Cut into rounds with a 2 inch biscuit
  cutter. Place on the baking sheet and cook for about 10 to 15 minutes
  until pale golden in colour.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Light Plum Cake
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      8 oz Flour
      4 oz Brown sugar
      4 oz Butter
      2    Eggs; beaten
      3 tb Milk
      2 oz Currants
      2 oz Raisins
      2 oz Peel; mixed
      1 ts Bicarbonate of soda
      2 ts Spice; mixed
 
  Set oven to 375F or Mark 5.  Grease a 7 inch round cake tin and line
  with greaseproof paper. Cream the fat and sugar together in a bowl.
  Sift together the flour, mixed spice and bicarbonate of soda and add,
  alternately with the beaten eggs and the milk, to the creamed
  mixture. The mixture should be quite moist.  Mix in the fruits.
  Transfer to the tin and bake for 1 1/4 hours, reducing the heat to
  350F or Mark 4 after 30 minutes.  If the top starts to brown, cover
  with foil. When cooked turn out on to a wire rack and allow to cool.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marmalade and Ginger Slice
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      8 oz Flour
      8 oz Golden syrup
      4 oz Butter
      8 oz Orange marmalade
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Ground ginger
      1    Egg; beaten
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease an 8 inch square cake tin. Melt
  the syrup and butter in a pan over a very gentle heat. Stir in the
  marmalade. Leave to cool.  Sift the dry ingredients into a bowl. Make
  a well in the centre and pour in the syrup mixture and the beaten
  egg. Beat well until thoroughly blended. Turn into the tin and cook
  for about 45 minutes until firm and golden in colour.  Cool on a wire
  rack and cut into slices.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ayrshire Shortbread
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      4 oz Ground rice
      4 oz Flour
      4 oz Butter
      4 oz Caster sugar
      1    Egg yolk; beaten
      1 tb Double cream
      1 dr Vanilla essence
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease a baking sheet. Sift the flour
  and ground rice into a bowl. Rub in the butter and add the caster
  sugar. Add the beaten egg yolk, the cream and the vanilla essence to
  bind the mixture. Knead well on a floured surface to a stiff
  consistency. Do not add any extra moisture.  Roll out thinly.  Prick
  with a fork and cut into fingers. Place the fingers on the baking
  sheet and bake for about 15 to 2O minutes until golden brown in
  colour.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scottish Girdle Scones
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breakfast, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      8 oz Flour
    1/2 ts Bicarbonate of soda
    1/2 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 oz Butter
      1 ts Golden syrup
      8 oz Buttermilk, full cream
           - milk, or sour milk
 
  Sift the flour into a bowl.  Add the other dry ingredients and mix.
  Rub in the butter.  Add the syrup and the milk and mix with a palette
  knife to a soft consistency.  Turn on to a floured surface and roll
  quickly and lightly (handle as little as possible) to about 3/4 inch
  thick. Cut into rounds.  Grease and heat the girdle or heavy
  frying-pan (it should be quite hot).  Lift the scones on to the
  girdle and, with a slice or broad knife, turn once until brown on
  both sides. Serve freshly baked, spread with butter.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whiskey and Apple Jelly
 Categories: Scot/irish, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      6 lb Cooking apples
           Granulated sugar
           Water
           Good Scotch whiskey
 
  Wash the apples, cut away any bad bits and quarter them. Place in a
  large preserving pan and just cover with water. Boil until quite soft
  but not pulpy.  Put into a jelly bag and allow to drip overnight. Do
  not try to hurry the dripping process or the jelly will be cloudy.
  Measure the juice and allow one pound of sugar to each pint of
  liquid. Put the juice and sugar into the pan and stir over a moderate
  heat until the sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil, stirring
  continuously, skimming off the scum from time to time. To test if the
  jelly will set drop a little on to a cold plate. When setting point
  is reached, remove from the heat and allow to rest for a few minutes.
  Add about a tablespoonful of whisky to the juice (quantity according
  to taste).  Pour immediately into warm jars and seal. Do not use for
  at least 3 months.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Selkirk Bannock
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breakfast, Breads
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
      8 oz Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 oz Butter
  1 1/2 oz Granulated sugar
    1/4 pt Milk; warm
    1/2 oz Fresh yeast
      8 oz Sultanas
      1    Egg; beaten to glaze
 
  Butter a 1 Ib. loaf tin.  Dissolve the sugar in the milk and stir in
  the yeast until thoroughly mixed. Leave in a warm place for 15
  minutes. Meanwhile sift the flour and salt into a bowl. Add the
  butter and rub in. Make a well in the centre and pour in the yeast
  mixture. Mix together vigorously until it forms a soft dough. Turn on
  to a floured surface. Knead gently and shape into a ball. Transfer to
  a greased bowl, cover and leave to rise in a warm place for 30
  minutes. Then work in the sultanas with the hands so they are evenly
  distributed.  Re-form the dough ball and leave to rise for 30
  minutes. Finally transfer to the tin; leave to rise for 45 minutes.
  Brush with beaten egg.  Bake for 20 minutes in a pre-heated oven at
  350F or Mark 4 until golden in colour. Turn out to a wire rack to
  cool. Serve sliced thinly and buttered.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Paradise Cake
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      8 oz Shortcrust pastry
           Raspberry jam
      4 oz Margarine
      4 oz Caster sugar
      1    Egg; beaten
      2 tb Glace' cherries; chopped
      2 tb Walnuts; chopped
      2 tb Almonds; ground
           Vanilla essence
           Caster sugar for dusting
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4. Grease an 11 inch x 7 inch baking tin.
  Roll out the pastry on a floured surface and use to line the tin.
  Bake blind for 10 minutes.  Meanwhile cream the margarine and caster
  sugar together in a bowl. Stir in the beaten egg and the cherries,
  walnuts and almonds. Add the vanilla essence and mix well. Spread a
  layer of raspberry jam over the bottom of the pastry case.  Spoon the
  mixture on to the jam, level off and bake for 30 to 35 minutes.
  Sprinkle with caster sugar and leave to cool in the tin.  When cold
  cut into squares.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buttermilk Bread #2
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      1 lb Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      1 oz Butter
      2 c  Buttermilk
 
  Set oven to 425 F or Mark 7.  Grease and flour a baking sheet. Mix
  all the dry ingredients together in a bowl. Lightly rub in the
  butter. Add the buttermilk and mix into a light, soft dough. Divide
  into two and shape into rounds on a lightly floured surface. Place
  the rounds on the baking sheet and bake for about 20 minutes. Serve
  sliced with butter.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipe  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey and Whiskey Cake
 Categories: Scot/irish, Alcohol, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      6 oz Flour; self-rising
      6 oz Butter
      6 oz Sugar; soft, brown
      3    Eggs; beaten
      4 tb Whiskey; usually good
           .. scotch
           Rind of orange; grated
      6 oz Icing sugar
      2 oz Butter
      2 tb Honey; clear
           Juice from orange
           Almonds; toasted & flaked
 
  Set oven to 375F or Mark 5.  Grease two 7 inch sandwich tins. Cream
  the butter and sugar together in a bowl. Add the orange rind. Beat in
  the eggs one at a time and whisk until the mixture is pale and
  fluffy. Sift in about half the flour and add the whisky. Fold into
  the mixture Sift in the remaining flour and fold in.  Divide the
  mixture equally between the two tins and smooth the tops. Bake for 20
  to 25 minutes until light golden. Turn out on to a wire rack to cool.
  To make the icing, put the butter into a mixing bowl. Add the honey
  and one tablespoon of the orange juice. Sift in the icing sugar
  slowly and work the mixture gradually until the ingredients are
  combined.  Sandwich the cakes together with half of the buttercream.
  Smooth the remainder over the top of the cake and decorate with
  toasted almonds.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scottish Flapjacks
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breakfast, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      8 oz Rolled oats
      4 oz Butter or margarine
      3 oz Caster sugar
      2 tb Golden syrup
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease an 11 inch x 7 inch baking tin.
  Gently heat the butter or margarine, sugar and golden syrup together
  in a pan until all are melted.  Gradually stir in the rolled oats,
  combining well with the syrup mixture. Press into the tin and cook
  for about 20 minutes. Mark into fingers and leave in the tin to cool.
  When cold turn out and break up; the flapjacks should still be soft
  and moist.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old-Fashioned Scottish Raspberry Buns
 Categories: Scot/irish, Desserts, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      8 oz Flour; self-rising
      3 oz Caster sugar
      4 oz Butter
      1    Egg; beaten
    2/3 ts Milk
           Raspberry jam
           Caster sugar to dust
 
  Set oven to 425F or Mark 7.  Grease and flour baking sheets. Sift the
  flour into a bowl and rub in the butter. Add the sugar and the beaten
  egg with enough milk to make a fairly stiff consistency. Divide the
  mixture into about walnut-size balls and place on baking sheets,
  allowing space for them to spread slightly during cooking. Make a
  small hole in the centre of each ball and spoon in a little raspberry
  jam. Pinch the edges together again.  Dust lightly with caster sugar.
  Bake for 10 minutes then reduce heat to 350F or Mark 4 and bake for
  a further 5 minutes. The buns should be light golden in colour. Cool
  on a wire rack.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Border Tart
 Categories: Scot/irish, Pie/tart, Desserts
      Yield: 1 tart
 
      8 oz Shortcrust pastry
      2 oz Butter
      2 oz Brown sugar; dark, soft
      1    Egg; beaten
      5 oz Dried fruit; mixed
      1 oz Walnuts; chopped
      1 oz Glace' cherries; chopped
      4 oz Icing sugar
      1 tb Water
 
  Set oven to 375F or Mark 5.  Grease a 7 inch round flan tin. Gently
  melt the butter and sugar together in a pan. Remove from the heat and
  leave to cool.  Meanwhile roll out the pastry on a floured surface
  and line the flan tin.  Add the beaten egg to the butter/sugar
  mixture and mix well. Then add the mixed dried fruit, chopped nuts
  and chopped glace cherries and beat well. Put the mixture in to the
  tin, level the top and bake for 20 to 25 minutes.  Allow to cool.
  Mix together the icing sugar and the water and use to drizzle a
  lattice pattern over the tart. Turn out when quite cold.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Light Family Fruit Squares
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      8 oz Flour; self-rising
      6 oz Butter or margarine
      6 oz Caster sugar
      3    Eggs
        pn Salt
      2 tb Milk
      3 oz Dried fruit; mixed
           Zest of orange; grated
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Line an 8 inch square cake tin with
  buttered greaseproof paper. Cream together the butter or margarine
  and sugar in a bowl.  Add the eggs one at a time, beating each well
  into the mixture. Sift the flour and salt and fold in gradually with
  the milk. Add the fruit and the orange zest, ensuring it is evenly
  mixed in. Spoon the mixture into the tin and bake for 40 to 45
  minutes until a skewer inserted into the cake comes out clean. Turn
  on to a wire rack to cool and then cut into squares.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butterscotch Biscuits
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breakfast, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
     12 oz Flour; self-rising
      4 oz Margarine
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Egg
      8 oz Brown sugar
      1 ts Vanilla essence
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease a baking sheet. Melt the sugar,
  margarine and vanilla essence together in a saucepan very gently over
  a low heat.  Remove from the heat.  When the mixture has cooled add
  the beaten egg and mix together. Sift the flour and salt into a bowl.
  Make a well in the centre and pour in the cooled egg/fat/sugar
  mixture. Knead into a stiff dough.  This will be fairly dry, but it
  needs no extra moisture. Roll out the dough on a floured surface into
  1/2 inch thickness and cut out the biscuits with a 2 inch biscuit
  cutter.  Place on the baking sheet with sufficient space to allow
  them to spread. Bake for 20 minutes until light golden in colour.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brandy Wafers
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      2 oz Golden syrup
      2 oz Butter
      2 oz Flour
      2 oz Caster sugar
    1/2 ts Brandy
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
 
  Set oven to 450F or Mark 8. Grease baking sheets. Melt the butter,
  syrup and sugar together in a saucepan over a very gentle heat. Stir
  in the flour, ground ginger and the brandy. Beat tagether for about 5
  minutes. Drop small teaspoonsful on to the baking sheet, spaced well
  apart. Bake For 5 minutes until pale golden brown in colour. Roll
  immediately, while still hot, around the greased handle of a large
  wooden spoon. Set aside to cool. These are delicious filled with
  freshly whipped cream.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tantalion Cakes
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      4 oz Flour
      4 oz Cornflour or rice flour
      4 oz Butter
      4 oz Caster sugar
        pn Bicarbonate of soda
      1 ts Lemon rind; grated
      2    Eggs; beaten
           Icing sugar for dusting
 
  Set oven to 375F or Mark 5. Grease a Baking sheet. Cream the butter
  and sugar together in a bowl. Add the sifted flours, bicarbonate of
  soda, lemon rind and the beaten eggs in small amounts, ensuring that
  the mixture is well combined each time. Turn out the dough on to a
  floured surFace, knead gently and roll out to 1/2 inch thickness. Cut
  into rounds with a 2 1/2 inch pastry cutter.  Transfer to the baking
  sheet and bake for 20 to 25 minutes until light golden in colour.
  Cool on a wire rack and dust with icing sugar. ** Scottish Tea-Time
  Recipes -- Johanna Mathie ** ** ISBN = 1 898435 18 9  ** Posted by
  The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On
   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oatmeal Gingerbread
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breads, Breakfast
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
      6 oz Flour
      2 oz Oatmeal
      2 oz Brown sugar; soft
      2 oz Butter
      2 tb Black treacle
      1 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Mixed spice
      1 lg Egg; beaten
      1 ts Bicarbonate of soda
      3 tb Milk
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Line a 7 inch square baking tin with
  buttered greaseproof paper. Put the butter, sugar and treacle
  together in a saucepan and heat gently until the fat melts. Sieve the
  flour and bicarbonate of soda into a bowl and add the oatmeal, sugar
  and spices. Add the melted treacle mixture, the beaten egg and the
  milk. Stir well until blended. Pour into the tin and bake for about
  45 minutes. Cool in the tin for about 10 minutes then turn out on to
  a wire rack.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scottish Brown Bread
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breads
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
      6 oz Whole wheat flour
      4 oz White flour
      1 tb Golden syrup
    1/4 pt Milk
      1 ts Bicarbonate of soda
      1 ts Cream of tartar
        pn Salt
 
  Set oven to 325F or Mark 3.  Grease a 1 Ib. loaf tin. Mix the flours,
  salt, bicarbonate of soda aud cream of tartar to gether in a bowl.
  Add the golden syrup and mix with sufficient of the milk to form a
  soft dough. Turn out on to a floured surface and knead very gently.
  Place in the tin and cover with foil.  Bake for about 50 minutes,
  then remove the foil and bake for a further 10 minutes until the top
  is nicely browned. Turn out on to a wire rack to cool.  Eat at once.
  This is an old Scottish recipe for simple, wholesome bread which
  requires no proving.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Tarts
 Categories: Scot/irish, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 pie
 
      3 oz Flour
      2 oz Butter
    3/4 oz Icing sugar
      2 ts Cold water
           Juice of a lemon
      2 oz Caster sugar
      1    Egg
           Icing sugar for dusting
 
  Set oven to 375F or Mark 5.  Grease deep patty tins (makes
  approximately six tarts).  Sift the flour into a bowl. Rub in the
  butter and add the icing sugar.  Add sufficient of the water to make
  a moist dough. Roll out on a floured surface, cut into rounds and
  line the patty tins. Bake blind for l4 minutes. Remove from the oven
  and reduce temperature to 350F or Mark 4.  Meanwhile beat together
  the egg, caster sugar and lemon juice. Fill the pastry cases with the
  mixture and bake until set and the pastry is nicelg browned.  Serve
  hot or cold, but do not chill in the refrigerator.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marmalade Cake
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      8 oz Flour; self-rising
      2    Eggs; beaten
      3 oz Caster sugar
      4 oz Margarine
      1 dr Vanilla essence
      2 tb Orange marmalade
      1 ts Orange rind; finely grated
      2 tb Milk
        pn Salt
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease a 6 inch round cake tin. Sift the
  flour and salt into a bowl. Rub in the margarine until the mixture
  resembles fine breadcrumbs.  Stir in the sugar and half the orange
  rind and then add the eggs, marmalade, milk and vanilla essence. Mix
  well together to the consistency of a thick batter. Transfer to the
  tin and bake in the centre of the oven for approximately 1 hour 20
  minutes until golden in colour or until a skewer inserted into the
  cake comes out clean. Sprinkle the remaining orange rind over the
  top. Leave in the tin for a few minutes before turning out on to a
  wire rack to cool.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plain Oven Scones
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breakfast, Breads
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      8 oz Flour; self-rising
      2 oz Butter
      1 ts Caster sugar
    1/2 pt Buttermilk, full cream
           - milk or sour milk
        pn Salt
 
  Set oven to 450F or Mark 8.  Grease and flour a baking sheet. Sift
  the dry ingredients into a bowl and rub in the butter. Add sufficient
  of the milk to make a moist and spongy dough.  Turn out on to a
  floured surface and knead gently. Roll out to 1/2 inch thickness and
  cut into rounds with a 2 1/2 inch pastry cutter.  Place on the baking
  sheet. Brush the tops with milk and bake for 8 to 10 minutes until
  risen and light golden in colour. Cool on a wire rack.  Serve split
  in half with butter and jam. For rich scones add 1 beaten egg to the
  dry ingredients before adding sufficient milk. Brush the tops of the
  scones with beaten egg rather than with milk.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butterscotch Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream, Scot/irish
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      2 oz Butter
      6 tb Brown sugar; dark, soft
    1/2 pt Full cream milk; warm
      2    Eggs
  2 1/2 oz Caster sugar
      4 dr Vanilla essence
     10 oz Whipping cream
 
  Melt the brown sugar and butter together in a pan over a gentle heat.
  Increase the heat until the mixture bubbles for 1 minute only. Allow
  to cool slightly.  Add the warm milk.  Stir continu- ously over a
  gentle heat until thoroughly blended. Allow to cool. Beat together
  the eggs and the caster sugar in a bowl.  Pour the mixture from the
  saucepan on to the beaten eggs/sugar, add the vanilla essence and
  stir. Strain back into the pan.  Stir over a low heat until the
  mixture thickens slightly; take care not to let it boil. Cool the
  mixture. Whip the cream lightly and fold into the cooled mixture.
  Pour into a freezer container and freeze until mushy. Beat with a
  whisk and return to the freezer until the ice cream is firm.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Plate Cake
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      8 oz Flour; self-rising
      4 oz Butter
      2 oz Caster sugar
      4    Cooking apples
      1    Egg; beaten
           A little milk
           Butter; melted for glazing
           Ground cloves or cinnamon
           - and caster sugar for
           - dusting
 
  Set oven to 425 F or Mark 7.  Grease an 8 inch round flan tin. Rub
  the butter into the flour in a bowl and stir in the sugar. Peel and
  grate two of the apples and add to the flour with the beaten egg. Mix
  well together. If the dough is rather firm add a little milk to
  soften. Turn the dough on to a floured surface and knead lightly.
  Press evenly into the base of the tin.  Peel, core and slice the
  remaining apples and arrange, neatly overlapping, on top of the
  dough.  Brush with melted butter and sprinkle with a pinch of ground
  cloves or cinnamon and a little caster sugar. Bake for 25 to 30
  minutes and serve warm. ** Scottish Tea-Time Recipes -- Johanna
  Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1 898435 18 9 ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul
  MacGregor Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey and Orange Tea Loaf
 Categories: Scot/irish, Breads
      Yield: 1 loaf
 
      6 oz Flour; self-rising
      6 oz Honey
      1 oz Margarine
      1    Egg
      1 ts Baking powder
      6 tb Milk
      1 lg Orange rind; grated
        pn Salt
           Honey for glaze
 
  Set oven to 350F or Mark 4.  Grease and line an 2 Ib. loaf tin.
  Cream the margarine and honey together in a bowl, mixing thoroughly.
  Add the egg and beat vigorously.  Sieve the flour, salt and baking
  powder and add alternately with the milk, to the creamed mixture.
  Sprinkle in the orange rind and mix well. Spoon the mixture into the
  tin. Bake for 45 minutes. Remove from the oven, glaze with honey and
  return to the oven for a further 10 minutes. Remove from the tin and
  cool on a wire rack. Serve sliced and buttered.
  
  **  Scottish Tea-Time Recipes  --  Johanna Mathie  ** ** ISBN = 1
  898435 18 9  ** Posted by The WEE Scot -- Paul MacGregor
  Submitted By PAUL MACGREGOR   On   07-13-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pocket Pies
 Categories: Snacks, Desserts
      Yield: 4 pies
 
    3/4 c  Whole wheat flour
    1/3 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Toasted wheat germ
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/3 c  Shortening
      3 tb Cold milk; up to 4 tb
      1 lg Apple OR
      2 md Peaches or pears
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/8 ts Ground nutmeg
      2 tb Butter or margarine
           Milk
           Sugar (optional)
 
  In a mixing bowl stir together whole wheat flour, all-purpose flour,
  wheat germ, salt and cinnamon.
  
  Cut in shortening till pieces are the size of small peas.  Sprinkle 1
  tablespoon of the milk over part of the mixture.  Gently toss with a
  fork. Push to side of bowl.  Repeat till all is moistened.
  
  On a lightly floured surface roll dough into an 11-inch square.  Cut
  into four 5 1/2-inch squares.
  
  Remove and discard core or pit from fruit.  Peel and chop fruit.
  Place 1/4 of the fruit on half of each square of dough.
  
  In a small bowl stir together brown sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg.
  Sprinkle over fruit.  Dot with some of the butter.
  
  Moisten edges of squares with a little milk.  Shape into rectangles by
  folding squares in half over fruit mixture.  With the tines of a fork,
  press edges to seal.
  
  Place on an ungreased baking sheet and make small slashes to allow
  steam to escape.  Brush with milk and sprinkle with additional sugar,
  if desired. Bake in a 375F oven for 14 to 18 minutes or till brown on
  edges. Transfer to a wire rack.  Serve warm or cool.
  
  from Better Homes and Gardens "Super Snacks" "Sweet Somethings"
  posted by Tiffany Hall-Graham From: Tiffany Hall-Graham Date: 21 Jun
  94 Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Varza cu Cartofi in Sos (Creamed Cabbage)
 Categories: Vegetables, Romanian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 x  Two pound cabbage
      3 x  Potatoes
      3 tb Flour
      1 qt Milk
      1 x  Garlic clove, chopped
      1 x  Dill, to taste
      1 x  Salt & pepper, to taste
      3 tb Shortening
 
    Slice cabbage in long strips, dice potatoes and cook together in
  salted water until tender. Drain. Melt shortening, blend in flour
  till smooth, and brown, then add garlic, salt and pepper. Add milk
  gradually, stirring constantly until the boiling point is reached.
  Reduce heat, add cabbage and potatoes and boil for ten min. If
  thinner sauce is desired add more milk. Dill may be added to taste.
  This is typically served as a side dish with meat; it can also be
  served as a soup. Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Talciu (Potato Loaf)
 Categories: Potatoes, Romanian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Grated potatoes
      1 x  Egg
    1/2 c  Shortening
      1 x  Salt & pepper, to taste
 
    Combine and blend well. Pour into well greased 13x9x2 inch pan.
  Spread shortening over the top. Bake at 325 for 1-1/2 hours.
  Submitted By MARK MIKLAS   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bigos (Sauerkraut Stew)
 Categories: Main dish, Polish, Soup/stew, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      4 lb Sauerkraut
      1 lb Beef cubes
      1 lb Smoked butt
      1 lb Spareribs
    1/4 lb Bacon
      1 cn Tomatoes (large)
      2 c  Water
      4 lb Cabbage head
      1 lb Loin pork chops
      1 lb Smoked kielbasa
    1/2 c  Onions (chopped)
      1 oz Mushrooms (dried)
      2 tb Flour
 
  Brown the beef, pork and spareribs in a large heavy pot. Put the
  browned meats and the smoked butt with 1 cup of water into a
  separate, covered pan and simmer until tender, the pork chops about
  1/2 hour, the butt about 1 hour, beef 1 1/2 to 2 hours and spareribs
  2 hours.
  
  Pour off all the fat from the first pot and put in the sauerkraut and
  one cup of water. Chop the cabbage fine and add to sauerkraut. Cover
  and cook until cabbage is tender, about 30 minutes. Remove lid and
  keep pot on a very low simmer.
  
  In a third pan, fry bacon until crisp, then crumble into sauerkraut
  mixture. Remove most of the bacon fat and fry onions and flour until
  they just brown. Mix into sauerkraut mixture.
  
  Remove the meats from the second pan as they become tender. Cut away
  fat and bone and cut into small pieces. Add to sauerkraut mixture.
  Skim the fat off the meat juices and add to sauerkraut mixture. Take
  off skin from kielbasa and cut into slices. Add to sauerkraut mixture
  with the tomatoes. Salt, pepper to taste. Bring to a boil, simmer 5
  minutes and serve hot. From: Rich Harper                     Date:
  07-17-95 (07:23) (159) Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Golabski (Stuffed Cabbage)
 Categories: Main dish, Polish, Meats, Potatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 md Head cabbage (about 2 1/2
           -lbs)
      1 x  Bunch carrots (about 6)
      6 x  Potatoes, peeled and cut
           -in half
      4 x  Slices day old bread
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 x  Egg
      1 md Onion, chopped
      2 cn (#2) whole tomatoes
           Salt and pepper
 
  Pour cold water over the bread which has been broken up.  Squeeze dry
  and place in mixing bowl with ground beef, chopped onion, and salt
  and pepper to taste. Drop in the egg and mix thoroughly.
  
  Parboil the cabbage 5-7 minutes.  Run cold water over it to separate
  the leaves. (slice off some of the thick vein on larger leaves.)
  
  With hands, form the meat mixture into little logs about 1 1/2"
  around and 3" long.  Roll the meat in the cabbage leaves and hold
  together with a toothpick.
  
  Place one bunch of carrots and 6 potato halves on the bottom of a
  large kettle. Salt the vegetables.  Lay the Golabski on top and add
  3/4 cup water.  Cover tightly and simmer for 45 minutes over low heat.
  
  Whip the tomatoes and pour over the golabski, continue to cook for
  
  Place one bunch of carrots and  6 potatoes on bottom of large kettle.
  Salt and pepper the vegetables.  Lay the golabski on top and add 3/4
  cup water. Cover tightly and simmer 45 minutes over low heat.
  
  Whip the tomatoes and pour over the golabski, continue to cook 15
  minutes.
  
  From Grandma Sheila
  From: Rich Harper                     Date: 07-17-95 (07:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 147107 German  Apple  Pancakes
 Categories: Aust/german, Breakfast, Fruit, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Eggs
    3/4 c  Flour
    3/4 c  Milk
    1/4 c  Margarine
      2 md Apples, thinly sliced
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
  Heat oven to 400 degrees.  Place two, 9 inch pie plates in oven. Beat
  eggs, flour, milk in small bowl on medium speed for 1 minute. Remove
  pans from oven.  Place 2 tablespoons margarine in each and rotate
  until margarine is melted and sides of pan are coated. Arrange half
  of apple slices in each pan, divide batter evenly between pans. Mix
  cinnamon and sugar and sprinkle over top.  Bake uncovered until
  puffed and golden brown, 20-25 minutes. Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN
   On   07-03-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zesty Salmon Spread
 Categories: Salads, Fish, Appetizers, Sandwich
      Yield: 4 appetizers
 
      1 lb Salmon; cooked and flaked
      2    Celery stalks; with
           -leaves, finely diced
    1/2 sm Onion; finely diced
    1/3 c  Mayonnaise
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Dill weed
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts French Mustard OR
      1 ts Horseradish
      1 ds Tabasco sauce OR
      1 ds Louisiana Hot sauce
 
  Mix Salmon, onions and celery in a bowl. Add the other ingredients
  and mix. Chill mixture thoroughly. Serve in scoops on a lettuce leaf
  or on canape crackers. Also makes an excellent filling for salmon
  sandwiches or croissant.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Norwegian Salmon Tarts
 Categories: West europe, Fish, Pie/tart, Appetizers
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------PASTRY--------------------------------
     10 tb Butter
      2 c  Flour
           Water; cold

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 tb Butter
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      1 c  Mushrooms; sliced
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 lb Salmon fillet
      2    Eggs; lightly beaten
      2 ts Dill; fresh, chopped
           Salt
           Pepper
      1    Egg white; slightly beaten

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 ts Chives; chopped
      1 ts Dill; fresh, chopped
      1 ds Garlic powder
 
  TO MAKE PASTRY:  Cut Butter into flour with a pastry blender and add
  water, a little at the time, until a stiff dough is formed. Roll and
  cut out top and bottom crusts for 12 tarts.
  
  TO MAKE FILLING:  In a skillet, melt butter, add onion and brown.  Add
  mushrooms and sour cream; simmer for five minutes and cool. Meanwhile,
  poach or steam fish until it flakes easily. Drain fish and flake in a
  bowl. Mix whole eggs and dill with fish. Season with salt and pepper
  to taste. Blend the fish and the mushroom mixtures and spoon into
  bottom crusts. Top with second crust and pinch edges together to
  seal. Brush egg white over top crusts and edges. Prick crusts for
  steam vents. Bake 10 minutes at 450 degrees F., or until crust is
  golden brown.
  
  TO MAKE TOPPING:  Mix together sour cream and seasonings. Add a
  spoonful to each tart before serving.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Trout Cheeks
 Categories: Appetizers, Fish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Lake trout cheeks
    1/4 c  Bearnaise sauce
      1 ts Butter
      1    Slice bread, toasted.
 
  When cleaning lake trout [or other large fish] scoop out the scallop
  shaped cheeks. Reserve until ready to prepare. Briefly pan fry or
  stir fry them in a small skillet or poach in acidified water . Have
  prepared a small quantity of Bearnaise sauce or flavored Beurre
  Compose. Make toast points and serve the cheeks on toast covered in
  the sauce. These are small but well worth the effort. [Walleye or
  pickerel cheeks are even smaller and even tastier!]
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Norwegian Juniper-Cured Salmon
 Categories: West europe, Fish, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lb Salmon fillet
    1/2 c  Juniper berries
      2 tb Salt
      4 tb Sugar

MMMMM-----------------------MUSTARD SAUCE----------------------------
    1/4 c  Dijon-style mustard
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
    1/2 tb Olive oil
    1/2 tb Dill, finely chopped
 
  Wash the salmon, pat dry and pull out any bones.  Crush juniper
  berries in a food processor or blender.  Mix salt and sugar together.
  Rub the salt and sugar mix into both sides of the salmon and place
  flat, skin side down, in a pan.
  
  Spread berries over the top side, cover with foil and place weights
  (several cans of food or a small board with a can or two) on top.
  Refrigerate for 48 hours, turning several times.  Keep weight over
  salmon. Scrape berries off, cut in thin slices and serve with mustard
  sauce.
  
  For the sauce;  Blend mustard, sugar, oil and dill together.
  
  Recipe:  Olympic Pantry in Lillehammer, Norway
  
  [> Be Seeing You -- DPileggi
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potato Pancakes Vonnas with Smoked Salmon and Osetra Cavi
 Categories: Potatoes, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lg Idaho Potatoes, peeled and
           -diced
      2 tb Corn starch
      2    Whole eggs
      4    Egg whites
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
           -Salt and pepper to taste
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Creme fraiche or sour
           -cream
      6 lg Slices of smoked salmon
      1    4- ounce jar of osetra
           -caviar (optional)
           -dill sprigs for garnish
 
  Cook three large, peeled and diced potatoes in salted water When
  cooked, pass potatoes through a food mill or sieve with fine holes.
  Place puree in electric mixer with a paddle attachment. Add corn
  starch to mix thoroughly. Slowly incorporate eggs and egg whites,
  then heavy cream. Season with salt and pepper to taste. Meanwhile, in
  a small bowl, stir the lemon juice into the creme fraiche. Set aside.
  Preheat non-stick skillet over medium heat. Spoon the pancake mixture
  into skillet, keeping a round shape (silver dollar size). Cook for 90
  seconds, then turn and cook until done. Place pancakes on plate and
  serve with one slice of smoked salmon, one tablespoon of the reserved
  creme fraiche mixture and a heaping teaspoon of caviar. Garnish with
  dill and serve.
  
  (Makes 6 appetizer servings)
  
  From the files of Al Rice, North Pole Alaska.    Feb 1994
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Crunch Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      5 tb Margarine
      1 pk Coconut pecan frosting mix
      1 c  Rolled oats
      1 c  Dairy sour cream
      4    Eggs
      2 lg Bananas
      1 pk Yellow cake mix
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour 10 inch tube pan.  In a
  saucepan, melt butter; stir in frosting mix and rolled oats until
  crumbly, set aside.  In a large bowl blend cream, eggs and bananas
  until smooth. Blend in cake mix; beat 2 minutes at medium speed. Pour
  1/3 of the batter (2 cups) into prepared pan.  Sprinkle with 1/3 of
  crumb mixture (1 cup). Repeat twice with batter and crumbs.  Bake 50
  to 60 minutes. Cool upright in pan 15 minutes.  Remove from pan and
  turn cake so crumb mixture is on top. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cornish Hens with Wild Rice
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Poultry, Rice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 2 SERVINGS--------------------------
      2 ea Cornish hens
           Salt
    1/4 c  Chopped green onions
      3 tb Butter or margarine, divided
      1 c  Cooked wild rice
    1/4 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
    1/2 c  Lime marmalade
    1/4 c  Orange juice
 
  Rinse hens, pat dry and season cavity with salt.  Saute' onions in 1
  Tbsp. butter, stir in rice and chopped nuts.  Stuff hens with rice
  mixture and secure opening.  Prepare glaze by melting 2 Tbsp. butter
  in a saucepan. Add marmalade and orange juice, blend until smooth.
  Brush hens with glaze and place on smoker grid.  Brush with glaze
  before serving. The time for two (2-3 lb.) chickens would be 2 to 3
  hours. From: Brinkmann Owner's Guide Shared By: Pat Stockett
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kathy Pitt's Chicken Fried Steak
 Categories: Meats, Information
      Yield: 1 serving
 
 
  Begin with a good-sized hunk of round steak, the steak should be at
  least 1/2 inch thick.  Cut the steak into serving-sized pieces.
  
  Now the fun begins.  I use a method of tenderizing the meat passed on
  to me by my father, who made great CFS -- first, score the exterior
  of the meat with tiny, diamond-shaped patterns (like you'd use to
  score the fat on a ham, but make the diamonds only about 1/4 inch
  long.) Do this to both sides of the meat.  Then pound the heck out of
  the meat using the heaviest implement you can find (a heavy saucer,
  the handle of a BIG knife or -- my personal favorite -- a clean claw
  hammer).
  
  The meat should be pounded until it almost, but not quite, gives up
  and falls to pieces.
  
  Now mix up a quantity of seasoned flour (salt, pepper, maybe some
  paprika and garlic powder).  Also beat a couple of whole eggs with a
  couple of tablespoons of water.
  
  Dip the pounded meat first in the flour, then in the egg, then back
  in the flour.  For a really crisp crust, dip again in the egg, and
  back in the flour (this is optional, but I almost always do it, to
  me, the crust is the best part of the dish).  Allow the breaded meat
  to sit for a few minutes to set up the breading.
  
  Melt some oil, bacon grease or lard in a heavy frying pan. Use enough
  to cover the pan to the depth of 1/4 inch.  When the fat is hot, but
  not smoking, place some of the meat in the pan.  Do not overcrowd,
  and do not allow the individual pieces of steak to touch.
  
  Cook on one side until nicely browned, turn and cook the second side.
  Remove the cooked steak to a warm place, and continue cooking the
  remainder until all is done.  Add more fat to the pan as needed.
  
  Add 2 Tbsp. of flour to every 2 Tbsp. of fat left in the pan (stir to
  scrape up the little browned, crispy bits that are sticking to the
  pan, too).  Cook this mixture briefly to get rid of the raw flour
  taste, but do not allow it to brown.  Stir in milk (about 1 cup to
  each 2 Tbsp. of flour) to make a gravy.  Season to taste with salt,
  black pepper (lots of black pepper), and serve gravy of the meat and
  the mashed potatoes you're going to serve on the side.
  
  Kathy in Bryan, TX
  
  ... Never order chicken-fried steak in a place that doesn't have a
  jukebox Submitted By GRANT AMES   On   07-14-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polish Poorboy
 Categories: Sausage, Sandwich, Polish, Potatoes
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 ea - cup chopped onion
      1 ea - Polish sausage
      5 ea - potatoes, peeled and diced
      1 ea - tsp garlic powder
      1 ea - 8 oz can mushrooms
 
  Mix all ingredients together in a greased skillet, cook, covered, for
  5 minutes. Stir occasionally. Cook over medium heat until potatoes
  are soft. When potatoes are soft, increase heat. Brown and serve.
  Best with buttered bread and milk!
  
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polish Babka
 Categories: Breads, Polish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 ea - pkg active dry yeast
    1/4 ea - cup warm water
    3/4 ea - cup milk
    3/4 ea - cup butter or margarine
    1/2 ea - cup granulated sugar
      4 ea - eggs, at room temperature
  1 1/2 ea - tsp salt
  1 1/2 ea - tsp almond extract
      4 ea - cups all-purpose flour
      1 ea - 12 oz pkg (about 2 cups)
           -Chuckles Jelly Rings, cut
           -in small pieces
           With kitchen scissors
           -dipped in warm water
      1 ea - cup chopped almonds
      4 ea - tsp milk
      1 ea - cup confectioner sugar
           Red food coloring, optional
 
  Dissolve yeast in water. Scald milk; set aside. In large mixing bowl,
  cream butter and sugar until light; add eggs, 1 at a time, until well
  blended. Beat in milk; then yeast mixture, salt and 1 tsp almond
  extract. Gradually, add flour, beating at low speed until batter is
  smooth. Reserve 1/4 cup Chuckles; stir remaining Chuckles and almonds
  into batter. Place reserved Chuckles around bottom of well greased 3
  quart Bundt pan to form a circle. Turn batter into pan. Cover; let
  rise in warm place about 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until batter is 1/2"
  from top of pan. Bake @ 375 degrees, 35 to 40 minutes or until done.
  Cool 5 minutes; remove from pan. Cool on rack. Stir together milk,
  1/2 tsp almond extract and sugar for icing; if desired, tint with
  food coloring. Drizzle icing over bread. Makes 12 slices. Note: Other
  recipes use grated peel of 1/2 orange and 1/2 lemon plus 1 cup
  raisins instead of Chuckles.
  
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Curried Tomatoes
 Categories: Side dish, Tomatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 lg Ripe tomatoes; skinned and
           -stem ends removed
      1 c  Tomato sauce
      2 ts Curry powder
      2 tb Currant jelly
      4 tb Sharp Cheddar cheese
      3 tb Fresh bread crumbs
           Crisp-cooked bacon bits
           -(optional)
 
     Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
     Cut deep, narrow holes in the tomatoes (be careful not to go all
  the way through). Place the tomatoes in a buttered baking dish.
     Combine the tomato sauce, curry powder and currant jelly in
  saucepan. Heat 5 minutes, pour over tomatoes (particularly inside the
  hollows) and bake 15 minutes.
     Remove tomatoes from oven. Then turn on broiler.
     Sprinkle cheese, bread crumbs and bacon (if used) over tomatoes and
  place under broiler to brown.
  
  _Classic American Cooking_  Pearl Byrd Foster, 1983 Simon & Schuster
  ISBN 0-671-44303-8   Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Tomatoes Stuffed with Leeks
 Categories: Side dish, Tomatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Tomatoes
      1 lg Or 2 small leeks
      4 tb Butter
           Salt & freshly ground black
           -pepper
           Tabasco sauce
    3/4 c  Grated Swiss cheese
      6 tb Dry bread crumbs
      3 ts Butter
      3 tb Chopped parsley
 
     Preheat oven to 400 F.
     Grease a shallow baking dish or pan large enough to hold the 6
  tomatoes.
     Wash tomatoes and cut off stem end (not too close). Using a
  teaspoon, scoop out seeds and pulp and discard. Turn tomatoes upside
  down on paper towels to drain and place in baking dish.
     Wash leeks very thoroughly and pat dry.  Cut away the tough green
  tips. Lay the leek pieces flat on a cutting board and slice crosswise
  very fine.
     Melt the 4 tablespoons butter in a saute' pan, add leeks and cook
  until soft (do not overcook). Season with salt, pepper, and Tabasco.
     Spoon 1/6 of the cooked leeks into each tomato, then a tablespoon
  of cheese and a tablespoon of breadcrumbs over the cheese.  Place a
  half-teaspoon of butter on top of each tomato.  Lower oven
  temperature to 350 F and bake for 12 minutes.
     Sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve.
  
  _Classic American Cooking_  Pearl Byrd Foster, 1983 Simon & Schuster
  ISBN 0-671-44303-8   Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Acorn Squash Baked with Pineapple
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 ea Acorn squash; halved
      2 tb Dry sherry
      2 tb Brown sugar
      6 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Crushed pineapple; drained
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
      1 ts Salt
 
     Preheat oven to 425 F.
     Scoop out the squash seeds and fibers and discard.  Place squash in
  greased baking dish.
     Put 1 teaspoon each of sherry, brown sugar, and butter in each
  squash half.
     Cover and bake for 30 minutes or until tender.
     Scoop squash out of shells, leaving wall about 1/4 inch thick.
     Mash squash and combine with remaining 4 tablespoons butter,
  pineapple, nutmeg and salt, beating well to blend.
     Spoon back into shells and return to oven to bake for 15 minutes
  more.
  
  _Classic American Cooking_  Pearl Byrd Foster, 1983 Simon & Schuster
  ISBN 0-671-44303-8    Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Butterfly Squash on Tomato Rings
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Tomatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 ea Butterfly squash (patty pan)
           -squash, about 3 inches in
           -diameter
      1 qt Chicken stock; boiling
      3 lg Firm. ripe tomatoes; cut in
           -half
      4 oz Butter
    3/4 c  Soft bread crumbs
      3 tb Snipped fresh chives or
           -chopped parsley
           Salt
           Freshly ground black pepper
           Sweet paprika
    1/4 ts Marjoram; crushed
 
     Scrub squash, leaving stems on, and place in a heavy-bottomed
  saucepan. Pour in chicken stock and bring to a high boil.  Cover,
  reduce heat and simmer until tender.  Drain.
     Melt half the butter in a saute' pan and saute' tomatoes 2 to 3
  minutes, turning once.  Place tomatoes in center of a flat, round
  serving platter.
     Melt the remaining butter in saute pan, add the add the bread
  crumbs and toss.  Season with salt, pepper, paprika, and marjoram
  while continuing to toss crumbs.  Spoon half the crumb mixture over
  tomatoes.
     Remove stems from squash, drain well and place on top of the tomato
  halves.  Sprinkle remaining crumbs over squash.  If desired, heat in
  oven preheated to 350 F for 10 minutes and run under broiler to brown
  lightly.
  
  _Classic American Cooking_   Pearl Byrd Foster, 1983 Simon & Schuster
  ISBN 0-671-44303-8   Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Peach Freeze
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 3/4 oz Package whipped topping mix
     16 oz Can sliced peaches; drained
 
     Prepare whipped topping mix according to package directions.
  Combine whipped topping and peaches in container of electric blender;
  process until smooth.  Spoon into 4 serving dishes, and freeze 2 to 3
  hours or until firm.  Remove from freezer 5 minutes before serving.
  
  Marie Raney of Arkansas in "Southern Living"  June, 1982 Typos by Jeff
  Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lime-Mint Refresher
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 3/4 oz Package whipped topping mix
    1/2 c  Cold milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream; softened
      1 pt Lime sherbet; softened
    1/4 c  Creme de menthe
 
     Combine whipped topping mix, milk, and vanilla; beat until smooth
  and stiff.  Add remaining ingredients; stir well. Freeze.  Yield: 10
  to 12 servings.
  
  Mrs. C.B. Smith of Maryland in June, 1982 "Southern Living" Typos by
  Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Country-Fried Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      2 ts Garlic salt
      2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Poultry seasoning
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 ea Egg; beaten
      1 ea 2-1/2 to 3 pound broiler-
           -fryer; cut up ans skinned
           Vegetable oil
 
     Combine first 5 ingredients in a plastic or paper bag; shake to
  mix, and set aside. Combine milk and egg; mix well.
     Place 2 or 3 pieces of chicken in bag; shake well. Dip chicken in
  egg mixture; return to bag and shake again. Repeat procedure with
  remaining chicken.
     Heat 1 inch of oil in a large skillet to 325 degrees F; add
  chicken and fry 30 to 35 minutes or until golden brown, turning once.
  Drain chicken on paper towels.
  
  From Jacquelyn Christopher of North Carolina in July, 1982 "Southern
  Living"   Typos by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garlic Fried Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  All-purpose flour
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 cl Garlic; crushed
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Celery salt
      1 ea 2-1/2 to 3 pound broiler-
           -fryer, cut up and skinned
      1 c  All-purpose flour
           Vegetable oil
 
     Combine first 6 ingredients; mix well. Place chicken in a shallow
  pan, and pour buttermilk mixture over top.  Cover and refrigerate at
  least 3 hours or overnight.
     Remove chicken from liquid. Dredge chicken in flour.
     Heat 1 inch of oil in a large skillet to 325 degrees F, add
  chicken and fry 30 to 35 minutes, turning once. Drain chicken well on
  paper towels.
  
  From Betty Nelson of Alabama  in "Southern Living"  July, 1982 Typos
  by Jeff Pruett
  Submitted By JEFF PRUETT   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shortbread \ Scottish
 Categories: Scot/irish, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 batch
 
      2 c  All purpose flour
      1    Heaping tbs. cornstarch
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Butter, softened
 
  Place all of the dry ingredients in a mixing bowl and blend well. If
  y have a heavy-duty electric mixer, cut in the butter with the
  machine. not, do it by hand with a pastry blender.  Knead the dough
  by hand for just a moment and form it into a circle 3/4 inch thick on
  a nonstick baking sheet, and flute the edges. Prick the whole circle
  with a fork. Bake in a preheated 325 F. oven for 1/2 hour, or until
  it just begins turn a light golden brown. Allow it to cool for a few
  minutes, and the remove it to a rack for the final cooling. When
  cool, the cookie can b cut, but the Scots simply bread it up into
  pieces and serve it with tea
  
  Note. If you wish to form smaller cookies from this recipe, just
  remember to watch the baking time. Smaller cookies will cook more
  quickly. Recipe from the Fugal Gourmet.
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: English Shortbread
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Kids, Main dish, Desserts, British isl
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 c  Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
           ;Sifted
      1 ts Baking Powder
      1 c  Butter Or Margarine
    1/3 c  Sugar
      1 lg Egg
 
  In a small mixer bowl, sift the flour and baking powder together,
  blending well, then set aside.  Cream the butter and sugar together,
  in a medium mixer bowl, until light and fluffy, using an electric
  mixer set on medium speed.  Blend in the egg.  Add the dry
  ingredients to the creamed mixture, stirring well to blend.  Knead
  the dough lightly until it holds together. Roll the dough out on a
  floured surface to a 14-inch square. Cut into 49 two-inch squares.
  Place the squares about 2-inches apart on ungreased baking sheets.
  Prick each with a fork. Bake in a preheated 325 Degree F. oven for 12
  minutes or until lightly browned. Remove from the baking sheets and
  cool on wire racks. Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Parcha Bozbash - Lamb Soup W/ Chestnuts, Quince,& Prunes
 Categories: Ussr, Soup/stew, Meats, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Boneless lean lamb
           ; cut in 1" cubes
           Salt to taste
           Freshly ground black pepper
           ; to taste
      3 tb Butter
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      4 c  Beef broth
      1 md Potato, peeled and cubed
      1 sm Quince
           ; peeled, cored, and cubed
    1/2 c  Dried pitted prunes
           OR 1 c fresh sour prunes
    1/4 lb Chestnuts, shelled & peeled
    2/3 c  Canned chick-peas*
           ; drained & rinsed
      2 tb Clarified butter
 
  Season the lamb with salt and pepper.  In a heavy pot, melt the 3 tb.
  butter over moderate heat.  Add the lamb and onion; saute until
  browned, stirring frequently.  Add the broth; season to taste with
  salt. Cover; simmer 30 minutes. Add the potato, quince, prunes, and
  chestnuts. Cover; simmer 20 minutes. Add the chick-peas and simmer,
  covered, about 15 minutes or until done. Stir in the clarified butter
  and allow to melt before serving soup. Note: 1/4 tsp. ginger or a
  pinch of powdered saffron dissolved in 2 tb. warm water may be added
  with the chick-peas, and the soup served sprinkled with 1 ts. crushed
  dried mint, accompanied by chopped onion and sumakh on the side. In
  the Caucasus, ground kyurdyuk is normally used instead of the
  clarified butter, and dried chick-peas* rather than canned ones.  The
  dried chick-peas are soaked several hours, drained, and added at the
  beginning with the broth. Note: Sumakh (labelled as sumac, a spice
  mixture) at Middle Eastern groceries. Submitted By DON HOUSTON   On
   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Flatbread with Garlic (Lahsooni Naan)
 Categories: Breads, Indian, Vegetarian, Ethnic
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 c  Unbleached all-purpose flour
      2 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cream of tartar
    1/4 ts Sea salt
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Egg replacer
      1 c  Soymilk or lowfat milk
      2 tb Canola oil
    1/4 c  Olive oil or melted ghee
      2    Garlic cloves; minced
 
  Combine flour, baking soda, cream of tartar and salt.  Set aside.
  
  Whisk water and egg replacer.
  
  Mix egg replacer, soy milk and canola oil in a large bowl.
  
  Add flour mixture to soymilk mixture and stir until dough forms a
  ball. Knead briefly, place in a greased bowl and cover with a damp
  towel. Let dough rest in a warm, draft-free area for 2-1/2 to 3 hours.
  
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.  Lightly oil baking sheets.
  
  Saute garlic in olive oil for 2 minutes.  Set aside.
  
  Lightly coat hands with vegetable oil and knead dough on a lightly
  floured surface until smooth, about 3 minutes.  Divide dough into 12
  equal pieces and roll each into a ball. Flatten each ball with hands,
  roll into an oval about 3/8" thick and stretch ends to form a
  teardrop shape (wide at base and tapering to a point on top).
  
  Place on baking sheets and brush with garlic oil.  Bake on middle
  rack for 6 to 8 minutes.
  
  Per naan: 206 cal, 4 g prot, 199 mg sod, 31 g carb, 8 g fat, 0 mg
  chol, 63 mg calcium
  
  HINT: After baking, place under broiler to brown.
  
  Source: Vegetarian Gourmet, Autumn 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias ... from a file of Carl Berger
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chapatis
 Categories: Indian, Breads
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Flour, unbleached
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 c  ;water
    1/2 c  Flour, whole wheat
      3 tb Ghi
 
  Mix flours, salt, and butter and add just enough water to make a firm
  dough, somewhat like a biscuit dough.  Knead for 10-15 minutes - the
  more the dough is kneaded, the lighter the bread will be.  Shape the
  dough into a ball, cover with a sheet of plastic and let it rest for
  at least 1 hour. If left to rest overnight in the refrigerator, the
  finished bread will be even lighter. When ready to bake, take a small
  piece of dough about the size of a golf ball, or a bit smaller. On a
  lightly floured board, roll the dough into a thin circle, about 5
  inches in diameter. Repeat with all the dough. Heat a griddle or
  heavy-bottomed iron skillet until it is very hot (you will notice the
  smoke rising from it). Place the rolled out chapati on the griddle
  and let it cook for 2-3 minutes, depending on how thin you have
  rolled it. Using a pair of kitchen tongs, you can lift the chapati to
  see if the underside has turned a golden brown. Flip, and cook the
  other side about 1 minute. As they are cooked, store the chapatis on
  a towel in a warm covered container until ready to serve. Serve as
  soon as the last chapati is baked. NOTE: In India breads sometimes
  are baked in the fiery clay tandoor, where they develop brown spots
  and bubbles. To achieve a similar effect at home, you can use tongs
  to hold each chapati over a hot gas flame until it puffs like a
  little balloon. The chapati will collapse as it cools.
                                      --- The Bombay Palace Cookbook
                                          Stendhal
                                          per Ellen Cleary
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Karhi Poori
 Categories: Breads, Indian
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      1 c  Flour, whole wheat pastry
      1 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Pepper, black; coarse
  3 1/2 tb Butter, sweet; softened
           Oil; for frying
 
  Sift the flours and salt into a bowl; add the pepper and cut in the
  butter until the mixture resembles coarse oatmeal. Now slowly add
  very hot water--about a half cup plus three tablespoons--and begin to
  gather the flour together. Squeeze the dough into a ball. It should
  just about hold together. Do *not* knead. Break the dough into about
  fifty balls. Keep them covered with a lightly dampened tea towel.
  Heat about 1-1/2 to 2 inches of oil in a wok over a medium flame.
  While the oil is heating, begin to roll out the pooris. Take each
  dough ball, flatten it, and roll it into a very rough round, about
  two inches in diameter. (Don't worry if the edges are ragged or
  cracked). Roll and fry as many pooris as the wok will conveniently
  hold in one layer. Fry two to three minutes a side, until the pooris
  are a very light sandy color on both sides, and crisp. Crank the heat
  up or down as needed. Remove the pooris and drain on paper towels or
  newspaper (or both). Allow them to cool and store in an airtight
  container. They won't need refrigeration, and should stay fresh for
  several weeks.
                                   Madhur Jaffrey's World-of-the-East
                                   Vegetarian Cooking
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sada Naan
 Categories: Indian, Breads
      Yield: 8 naan
 
      4 c  Flour, all purpose;450 g
    5/8 c  Milk; or warm water; 150 ml
      2 tb Yogurt
      1 tb Yeast,dried
      1 ts Sugar
      3 tb Ghee; or butter
      2 tb Poppy seeds
      1 tb Sesame seeds

MMMMM-------------------VARIATION: BADAMI NAAN------------------------
      2 c  Almonds; blanched finely &
           -shredded
           White sesame seeds
 
  Leavened bread of Northern India (Uttar Paresh)
  
  Sprinkle yeast and sugar into the hot milk or water, leave it for 20
  minutes. Sift together flour, dalt in a large bowl, and make a well
  in the centre. Put yogurt and 2 tbsp butter in the yeast mixture.
  Knead well and leave it aside for 3-4 hours, in a warm place until
  doubled in size.
  
  Punch down dough and divide into 8 balls. Let it rest for 10 minutes.
  Roll out each ball in the shape of traignles or make a round disk.
  then pull on one side to make a teardrop shape. Mix together 1 tsp
  ghee or butter, poppy seeds and sesame seeds. Spread a little of the
  above mixture on each naan. Place them on a baking tray. Cook in a
  preheated oven (375F/ 190C/ gas mark 5) for 4-5 minutes until brown
  specks appear. If the naan is not brown enough then put under a
  preheated grill for a minute or two.
  
  Variation: Badami Naan Brush each sada naan with oil or butter before
  baking them. Sprinkle almonds and white sesame seeds on the greased
  side of every naan. Cook in a preheated ove, for 4-5 minutes.
  
  MAKES:8 SOURCE: _Rotis and Naans of India_ by Purobi Babbar,
  published in Bombay posted by Anne MacLellan, not tested yet. From:
  Anne Maclellan Date: 22 Jan 94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whole Wheat Flatbread (Chapati)
 Categories: Breads, Indian, Vegetarian
      Yield: 14 servings
 
  2 1/4 c  Durum flour
    1/2 ts Sea salt
      1 tb Canola oil
    2/3 c  -Very warm water
 
  Combine flours and salt in a large mixing bowl.
  
  Mix in oil and water to form a stiff dough, adding more water if
  necessary. Remove dough from bowl and knead on a lightly floured
  surface until smooth, about 5 minutes.
  
  Return dough to bowl, cover with a towel and set aside in a warm
  place for one hour.
  
  Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and divide into 14 equal
  portions.  Roll each piece into a ball and cover with a damp towel.
  
  Heat an ungreased griddle or large frying pan over medium heat.
  Working with one ball of dough at a time, flatten it, then roll into
  a 6" circle, using only enough flour to keep dough from sticking.
  When griddle is hot, pick up dough, shake off excess flour and place
  it on a hot pan. Cook until brown spots appear, about one minute.
  Flip dough over and cook on other side.  (Chapati may puff up while
  cooking.)
  
  Cover and place in a warm oven while cooking remaining chapatis.
  
  Per chapati:  64 cal, 2 g prot, 81 mg sod, 14 g carb, 0.3 g fat, 0 mg
  chol, 18 mg calcium
  
  HINTS: Substitute durum flour with 1-1/2 cups whole wheat flour and 1
  cup unbleached all-purpose flour.
  
  Spread with margarine or butter after cooking to maintain moistness.
  
  Source: Vegetarian Gourmet, Autumn 1993 Typed for you by Karen
  Mintzias From: Karen Mintzias                  Date: 04-10-94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Galab Jamuns (Northern India)
 Categories: Breads, Indian, Side dish
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 c  Sugar
      4 c  ;Water
      3    Cardamom pods
      2 c  Nonfat dry milk
      1 c  Biscuit mix
    1/2 c  Liquid milk
      2 tb Melted butter or margarine
           Vegetable oil for frying
 
  Combine sugar and water in a pan and stir to dissolve.  Crush
  cardamom and add it to the syrup.  Bring to a boil, cook 15 to 20
  minutes or until mixture is syrupy, then remove from heat.  Remove
  about a quarter of the syrup to another smaller pan and keep that at
  a simmer.
  
  Meanwhile, combine dry milk, biscuit mix, milk and melted butter.
  Grease hands and palms and shape the milk mixture into balls less
  than 1" in diameter.  Heat about 3" of vegetable oil in a pan.  Add 1
  ball - it shouldn't crackle, but should make small bubbles in the
  oil. If the heat is right, cook remaining balls in the oil, a few at
  a time. Cook 6 to 8 minutes, or until light brown (they will expand).
  Remove them from the oil with a slotted spoon.
  
  Place the fried balls in the syrup that you've set aside in the
  smaller pan.  Bring to a boil, then remove the balls and put in the
  large pot of syrup.  Keep adding fried balls to small pan, then
  transfer to large pan of syrup.  Discard the syrup left in the small
  pan. Discard cardamom pods before serving.
  
  Serve chilled or at room temperature. Serve in a small bowl with the
  syrup.
  
  Yield: About 24, or 12 servings.
  
  Recipe from Louisville pediatric cardiologist Surgeet Singh in Food
  Editor Sarah Fritschner's 01/28/90 "Home Cooking Indian Style"
  article in "The (Louisville, KY) Courier-Journal's 'Magazine.'"  Pg.
  26. Posted by Cathy Harned. From: Cathy Harned Date: 19 Apr 94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: The $2 Little Meal, Caramelized Onions and Pasta+
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables, Main dish
      Yield: 4 mini meals
 
      2 tb Oil
  1 1/2 lb Onions, thinly sliced
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Dried basil leaves (or 3 tb.
           -fresh torn in small pieces)
    1/2 ts Dried thyme leaves (or 3 ts.
           -fresh)
           Freshly ground black pepper
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
     12 oz Farfalle or bow-tie noodles

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Grated Parmesan cheese,
           -optional
 
  This is for one of those nights when you haven't been grocery
  shopping and your tired and your hungry and you want something fast
  and easy.
  
  I've tried something nearly identical and we love it.
  
  1. In large nonstick skillet heat oil. Add sliced onions and cook
  over high heat until onions begin to brown, about 10 minutes. If they
  begin to burn a little, that's o.k. too.
  
  2. Lower the heat and add salt, sugar and spices. Cook 10 minutes,
  stirring often, until onions are uniformly caramel-colored. Add water
  and vinegar and cover. Simmer while the pasta is cooking.
  
  3. Meanwhile, in a separate pot, bring 3 quarts of water to a boil.
  Cook pasta al dente. Drain well.
  
  4. Divide pasta equally into 4 heated bowls. Top with equal portions
  of caramelized onions and sprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, if
  desired.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Pudding alla Edna Lewis+
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts, British isl, Puddings
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 qt Currants, freshly picked
      2 pt Raspberries
  1 1/2 c  Granulated sugar
     12 sl Day old bread, firm but not
           -too heavy left out to dry
      5 tb Unsalted butter
    1/2 pt Heavy cream (not ultra
           -pasturized)

MMMMM----------------------EQUIPMENT NEEDED---------------------------
           2 quart bowl or nonmetalic
           -mold 6 inches deep and
           -6 inches wide at the top
 
  The bearer of this recipe, Edna Lewis, said she prepared this pudding
  for a James Beard tribute dinner in New York one year. Mayor Koch had
  five helpings.
  
  You could use all currants or all raspberries or a combination.
  
  Wash the currants, drain them, then pick off the stiems. Put 2 cups
  of the picked currants in a nonmetalic 5 quart pot. Crush the fruit
  to extract the juice, then add the remaining currants. Place the pot
  over medium heat and simmer for 15 to 18 minutes. Remove from the
  burner and add 1 pint of the raspberries. When cool, pour the
  contents of the pot into a sieve and press the berries to remove
  their seeds and skins. Add sugar to the berry puree and mix well
  again. Taste and add more sugar if desired.
  
  Cut the crusts off the slices of bread and discard them. Butter the
  bread lightly on one side. Line the bowl with the bread, the
  unbuttered side against the bowl, placing a slice on the bottom of
  the bowl, then some slices around the sides, cutting when needed, to
  have the bread fit neatly in the bowl. Pour a cup of the currant and
  raspberry mixture into the bowl and cover with a slice of bread.
  Continue alternating puree and bread until the bowl is full. See to
  it that the bread is well soaked with the berry mixture-the plate
  should fit just inside of the bowl. Then fill a quart jar to weigh 2
  pounds and place it on top of the plate. The weight of the jar will
  press the juices into the bread and the plate will catch any juice
  that is pressed out.
  
  Set in the refrigerator overnight. Reserve any extra berry puree.
  Unmold the pudding onto a platter, and spoon over the reserved puree.
  Serve with lightly whipped cream.
  
  This recipe came from Edna Lewis' In Pursuit of Flavor.
  
  Summer pudding is served in England. I had a luscious serving of it
  while I was there last year. I recommend it-tastes like sunshine!
  
  MM format courtesy Mary Riemerman
  Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   07-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pennsylvania Dutch kidney Bean Salad+
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables, Penndutch
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    1/2 c  White vinegar
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Celery seed
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      3 cn Kidney beans (16-oz.)
      1 c  Celery, diced
      2    Eggs, hard boiled, chopped
 
  Combine white vinegar, sugar, celery seed, salt and cornstarch in
  saucepan. Place on heat; bring to boil, stirring continuously until
  smooth. Take off heat and let cool to room temperature. Add
  mayonnaise. Carefully rinse and drain kidney beans (drain 5 minutes.)
  Combine sauce, kidney beans, celery, and chopped eggs. Marinate
  several hours before serving.
  
  Makes 1 1/2 quarts.
  
  Mary Riemerman
  Submitted By MARY RIEMERMAN   On   07-05-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Rice Baked W/Vegetables
 Categories: Vegetables, Main dish, Rice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 md Onion, diced
      1 tb Garlic clove minced
    1/2 c  Broccoli floweretts
      1 md Pepper green, diced
      3 ea Celery stalks, diced
     24 oz Tomato paste canned, low
           Salt
    1/4 ts Thyme, ground
      3 sm Tomatoes plum
      1 c  Rice white long-grain
           Uncooked
      3 c  Vegetable Broth (home made)
      1 c  Tomato Juice
      1 ea Bay leaf
      6 oz Monterey Jack or cheddar
     15 oz Kidney beans canned
 
  Heat oil in a 2 qt oven proof casserole dish, add onions and garlic
  and cook over low heat for 4 to 5 minutes. Stir in the broccoli and
  peppers; stir cook over moderate heat for 1 minute. Stir in the
  celery; stir cook for 1 minute. Stir in the tomato paste (already
  combined with the thyme), plum tomatoes and kidney beans. Stir in the
  rice. Pour in the stock and tomato juice. Add the bay leaf and bring
  mixture to a low boil. Cover tightly and place in a 350 degree oven
  for about 40 minutes until liquid is absorbed and rice is tender.
  Remove the bay leaf before serving. Serve sprinkled with grated
  cheddar cheese if desired.
  
  Source: The Vegetarian Time Magazine
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Recipe: Old World Lasagna
 Categories: Italian, Pasta, Vegetables, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      1 qt Spaghetti sauce
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/2 lb Lasagna noodles, uncooked
     16 oz Mozzarella Cheese
      2 c  Ricotta Cheese, cup
     16 oz Parmesan grated
 
  Use the spaghetti sauce recipe for sauce. Add oil to 3 quart boiling
  water. Add 12 pieces of Lasagna 2 pieces at a time to the boiling
  water. Cook uncovered for 15 minutes. Drain and rinse the lasagna in
  cold water and set aside. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Grease a
  13x9x2 dish. Put in layers starting with spaghetti sauce. Use 1/3
  sauce, then 1/3 noodles, then 1/3 ricotta, 1/3 mozzarella, and then
  1/3 of the parmesan. Repeat twice more ending up with the parmesan on
  top. Bake uncovered for 45 minutes. Let stand 15 minutes before
  cutting.
  
  Source: A box of lasagna noodles many years ago
  Submitted By HENRY REINTGES   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackened Seasoning
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 tb Sweet Paprika
  2 1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Onion Powder
      1 ts Garlic Powder
      1 ts Ground Red Pepper
           -(Preferably Cayenne)
    3/4 ts White Pepper
    3/4 ts Black Pepper
    1/2 ts Dried Thyme Leaves
    1/2 ts Dried Oregano Leaves
           Combine all of the
           -ingredients, blending well
 
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Chicken
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           I have an excellent chicken
           -recipe.  I use a cajun
           -spice put out by
           Tony Chachere.
      2 md Boneless, Skinless Chicken
           -Breasts
  1 1/2 tb Butter
    1/8 ts Adolph's Meat Tenderizer
           -(Adds Flavor, But Be
           -Careful
           As This Contains MSG)
    1/2 ea To 1Tbls    Cajun Spice
 
  Place butter in teflon pan, sprinkle Adolph's on chicken and place
  this in the pan.  Sprinkle spice on both sides.  Cook on med-low for
  10 min. After that turn heat to med to med-high.  Cook chicken on
  both sides. I move mine around a lot.  Don't get too much spice or
  Adolph's or it will taste too salty.  I tried this one day and my
  family loves it and it is simple to cook.  I make mashed potatoes and
  pour the left over butter on them.
  
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aceitunas Con Limon Y Tomillo (Lemon Thyme Green Olives)
 Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     14 oz Unpitted green olives
      1    Lemon -- slice thin
      2 tb Fresh thyme
    1/2 c  Olive oil
 
  Crush or cut slits in olives. Place in a jar with sliced lemon. Place
  thyme over olives and pour over olive oil. Let stand at room
  temperature for 24 hours.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: African Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Ethnic
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE WINGS----------------------------
      4    Garlic cloves
      2    Shallots
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Chinese 5 spice
      2 ts Paprika
      1 ts Dried rosemary -- crumbled
    1/2 ts Cayenne -- or to taste
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      4 lb Chicken wings; about 20-24
           Tips removed

MMMMM-----------------------FOR THE SAUCE----------------------------
    1/3 c  Natural style peanut butter
    1/4 c  Canned cream of coconut --
           Well stirred
      2    Garlic cloves -- chopped
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Red bell pepper -- chopped
    1/8 ts Dried hot red pepper flakes
           Or to taste
      1 ts Soy sauce
           Coriander sprigs -- for
           Garnish if desired
 
  THE WINGS: Prepare the chicken wings: Mince and mash the garlic and
  shallots to a paste with the salt. In a large bowl stir the paste
  together with the 5 spice powder, paprika, rosemary, cayenne, and the
  oil. Mix well. Add the chicken wings. Toss and stir Transfer the
  sauce to a serving bowl set on a platter. Arrange the wings around
  the bowl and garnish the platter with the coriander.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Avocado Piquant
 Categories: Fruit, Side dish, Appetizers
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb Catsup
      2 tb Worcestershire
      2 tb Vinegar
      2 tb Butter
      2 tb Sugar
      2    Avocado
 
  Bring to a boil in saucepan all ingredients except the avocado. Spoon
  into cavity and serve.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bouillabaisse Bites
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     24 md Shrimp -- peeled and
           Deveined
     24 md Sea scallops
      2 c  Tomato sauce
      1 cn Minced clams (6-1/2 oz)
      1 tb Pernod
     20    Milliliters
      1    Bay leaf
      1 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Salt*
    1/2 ts Freshly ground pepper
           Garlic -- minced
 
  pn Saffron Skewer shrimp and scallops on 8-inch bamboo skewers, using
  1 shrimp and 1 scallop per skewer; wrap tail of shrimp around
  scallop. Mix tomato sauce, clams, Pernod, garlic, bay leaf, basil,
  salt, pepper and saffron together in saucepan. Bring mixture to ge
  Arrange skewered fish in shallow baking dish. Drizzle sauce over
  skewers. Bake, uncovered, at 350 degress for 25 minutes. Makes 24
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cangrejitos (Filled Crescent Pastries)
 Categories: Appetizers, Caribbean
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar
      9 oz Cream cheese -- (3 -3 oz.
           Packages)
      1    Stick butter -- salted to
           Taste

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 c  Ham -- finely ground
           (or chorizo)

MMMMM-------------------FOR BRUSHING TURNOVERS------------------------
      1 lg Egg, beaten lightly with
           -1/4 tsp. water
 
  Sift the flour, then sift it again with the salt and sugar, and set
  aside. In a large bowl, using a hand or electric mixer, cream the
  cheese and butter together until well blended.  Add the flour mixture
  and mix with your fingers or a pastry blenderuntil smooth.  Cover and
  refrigerate at least 30 minutes. Preheat the oven to 400 and lightly
  flour your work surface.  Divide the dough into 4 balls and, working
  with one ball at a time, with a floured rolling pin roll out the
  dough 1/8 inch thick. Cut the dough into 3-inch squares, then cut
  them in half, int Place the pastries on an ungreased cookie sheet 2
  inches apart, brush with the egg wash, and bake until lightly
  browned, 15 to 20 minutes.  They can be made ahead of time
  andreheated in a 250 oven for 4 to 6 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : "Memories of a Cuban Kitchen" by Mary Urrutia
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Center Club Chicken Wings
 Categories: Asian, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Chicken wings
  1 1/4 c  Hoisin sauce
    3/4 c  Plum sauce
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
    1/3 c  Cider vinegar
    1/4 c  Dry sherry
    1/4 c  Honey
      6    Green onions -- minced
      6    Cloves garlic -- minced
 
  Cut off and discard wing tips.  Separate wing at joint. At the
  drumstick joint, separate bones with small knife and push meat to
  tip. Remove smaller bone and discard. Mix all other ingred in large
  bowl. Add chicken and coat well. After refrigerating coate Drain
  chicken, reserving liquid. Place chicken on rack and roast for 30
  min. Baste, turn wings and return to oven for an additional 30 min.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Fingers W/Dipping Sauce
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      4    Boneless skinless --
           Chicken
           Halves
      2 tb Plain lowfat yogurt
     15    Soda crackers -- crushed
      1 ts Dried thyme
    1/2 ts Dried marjoram
    1/4 ts Curry powder
           Salt to taste

MMMMM-----------------------DIPPING SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Plain lowfat yogurt
      2 tb Catsup
      2 tb Celery -- finely chopped
      2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Garlic, finely chopped --
           -optional
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
 
  Trim visible fat from chicken; cut each breast into 6 even strips.
  Coat chicken pieces with yogurt. Combine cracker crumbs, thyme,
  marjoram and curry. Roll chicken strips in crumbs. Place chicken in
  single layer on cake rack set in baking pan. Bake at 375~F for 25
  minutes or until crumbs are lightly browned and crisp. Remove from
  oven. Nutrition Analysis per serving: 67cal; 9gm pro; 3gm carb; 2gm
  fat; 7 Combine yogurt, catsup, celery, soy sauce, garlic (if desired)
  and pepper to taste. Serve as dip for chicken fingers. Nutrition
  Analysis per serving: 10 cal; 1gm pro; 2gm carb; trace fat; 103mg
  sod; 1mg chol. Serving Size: 1/12th of the recipe.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilled Chilied Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Jewish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb HOT CHILI POWDER
      2    WHOLE EGGS LIGHTLY BEATEN
      4 lb CHICKEN WINGS (15)
           OIL FOR FRYING
    1/2 c  BOILING WATER
      1 tb CUMIN
      2 tb KETCHUP
      2 tb HOT PAPRIKA
  1 1/2 tb HOT PEPPER SAUCE
      1 ts OREGANO
      1 ts SALT
    1/2 ts FRESH GROUND PEPPER
 
  MIX THE CHILI POWDER,CUMIN,HOT PAPRIKA,OREGANO,SALT AND PEPPER
  TOGETHER WITH THE BOILING WATER,AND STIR TO MAKE A CHILI PASTE. STIR
  IN TH KETCHUP AND PEPPER SAUCE.SET ASIDE TO COOL SLIGHTLY.PLACE THE
  EGGS IN A LARGE BOWL,AND STIR IN THE CHILI PASTE.MIX WE CUT THE
  TAPERED JOINT FROM THE WINGS,AND RESERVE FOR STOCK OR ANOTHER USE.PUT
  THE TRIMMED WINGS IN THE SPICE EGG MIXTURE.TOSS THROUGHLY.THE WINGS
  SHOULD SOAK IN THE MARINADE FOR SEVERAL HOURS IN THE REFRIGERATOR;THE
  LONGER THEY MARINATE,THE SPICER THEY WI HEAT AN INCH OF OIL IN A
  HEAVY SKILLET TO 375 DEGREES.(IT'S THE PROPER TEMPERATURE WHEN A WING
  TIP DIPPED IN THE OIL CAUSES AN IMMEDIATE BUBBLING) FRY THE WINGS IN
  BATCHES FOR ABOUT EIGHT MINUTES,FLIPPING ONCE DURING COOKING.BE SURE
  NOT TO CROWD THE PAN. DRAIN ON PAPER TOWELS.SERVE H OR CHILLED
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chunky Clam Rarebit
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Chopped green bell pepper
    1/2 c  Chopped mushrooms
      3 tb Flour
      1 cn (28 oz) Italian peeled --
           Tomatoes; crushed, w
      1 c  Milk
      2 c  Shredded Cheddar cheese --
           (about 8 ozs.)
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      2 cn (6-1/2 oz.) minced clams
 
  1. In a large saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Stir in green
  pepper and mushrooms and cook until softened but not browned, about 5
  minutes. 2. Stir in flour. Cook, stirring, 1 minute. Gradually add
  tomatoes and their liquid, stirring constantly. Add milk, cheese,
  mustard, Worcestershire, and clams with liquid and cook, stirring,
  until heated through and cheese has melted, about 5 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cinnamon Pecans
 Categories: Appetizers, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 20 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Egg White
      4 c  Pecan Halves
 
  Preheat oven to 325 Combine sugar, cinnamon and salt in small bowl.
  Whisk egg white in large bowl until frothy.  Add pecans to egg white
  and toss to coat.  Add sugar mixture and toss thoroughly. Spread
  pecans in a single layer on heavy large cookie sheet Cool. (Can be
  prepared 2 weeks ahead. Store in airtight container.)
  
  Recipe By     : Bon Appetit
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Conch Fritters
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 50 servings
 
      2 lb Conch -- finely chopped
      1 c  Lime juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1    Green bell pepper -- chop
           Fine
      1    Red bell pepper -- chop
           Fine
      1 lg Onion -- chopped fine
      4    Eggs -- beaten
      2 c  Flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Cajun seasoning -- can use
      2 ts For spicier
      6 ds Tabasco sauce
      3 ts Baking powder
      5 tb Margarine -- melted
           Vegetable oil for frying
 
  Have fish market put conch through tenderizer. Marinate conch in 1
  cup lime juice and 1/4 cup olive oil for at least 30 minutes; drain.
  Mix all ingredients together. Fry by tbls in HOT vegetable oil until
  golden, about 3-5 minutes. Serve with red cocktail sauce ort tartar
  sauce.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coquilles St. Jacques
 Categories: Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/4 c  White Wine
      1 pn Thyme
      4 tb Butter
    1/2 sm Onion
    1/2    Bay Leaf
      1    Parsley Sprig
    3/4 lb Bay Scallops
    1/4 lb Fresh Mushrooms -- chopped
      1 tb Lemon Juice
  1 1/2 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Heavy Cream
      2    Egg Yolks
      1    Parmesean
      2 sl Dried bread/crumbs
 
  Melt a small quantity of butter and stir with buttered bread crumbs.
  Drain and set aside.  In medium saucepan, add 1/4 cup water, wine,
  thyme, 1 tblsp butter, onion, bay leaf and parsley sprig.  Add
  scallops and simmer 2-3 minutes.  Strain broth and save, Blend well.
  Add scallops. Cook until thickened and smooth. Add mushrooms. Pile
  into oven bowls, top with buttered bread crumbs and good dash of
  parmesean. Broil until browned.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crab And Avocado Cocktail Bbs/Mexican
 Categories: Seafood, Appetizers
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           JAMES PRINCE
      1 c  Crab Meat -- Cooked
      2    Avocados -- Peeled &
           Chopped
      2    Jalapeno Chiles -- *
    1/4 c  Tomato; Chopped -- 1 small
    1/4 c  Lime Juice
      2 tb Olive Or Vegetable Oil
      2 tb Onion -- Chopped
      2 tb Cilantro; Fresh -- Snipped
      1    Clove Garlic -- Finely
           Chopped
    3/4 ts Salt
           Pepper -- Dash Of
  1 1/2 c  Lettuce -- Finely Chopped
           Lemon Or Lime Wedges
           (VRVF28A)
 
  *  Jalapeno Chiles should be seeded and finely chopped.
  
  Mix all ingredients except lettuce and lime wedges. Place 1/4 cup of
  lettuce on ead of 6 serving dishes. Divide the crabmeat mixture among
  the dishes.  Garnish with lime wedges.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crawfish Mousse
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Crawfish tails -- cooked
           And
           Chopped
      2 c  Sour cream
      1 lb Cream cheese
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Minced red bell pepper
    1/2 c  Minced green bell pepper
    1/2 c  Minced celery
    1/2 c  Minced onion
    1/2 c  Minced green onions
    1/4 c  Minced parsley
      5    Or 6 cloves garlic --
           Minced
    1/2 c  Chili sauce
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
           Tabasco to taste
      2 tb Gelatin
      6 tb Brandy
      4 tb Lemon juice
 
  In a mixer, cream sour cream, cream cheese, and mayonnaise. Add
  seasonings and minced vegetables. Soften gelatin in brandy. Very
  carefully heat to dissolve gelatin, add to crawfish mixture. Season
  to taste. Pour into a lightly oiled decorative springform mold. Chill
  a minimumof 4 hours before unmolding. Serve with crackers or toast.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Salsa
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips/spread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sour Cream
      1 c  Salsa
      1 pk Ranch Dressing Mix
 
  Combine all ingredients.  Chill for a couple of hours to let the
  flavors blend.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creole Crab Fingers
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Jumbo crab claws
      3    Eggs
      1 pt Milk
  1 1/2 c  Corn flour
      1 c  Flour
      1 ts Red pepper
      2 ts Salt
      1 tb Onion powder
  1 1/2 tb Garlic powder
      3 tb Paprika
    1/4 c  Chopped parsley
    1/4 c  Green onions -- chopped
           Fine
 
  Make egg wash with eggs and milk. Mix remaining ingredients except
  crab fingers. Put fingers in dry, then egg wash and then again in
  dry. Let rest for about 30 minutes or so. Fry to brown in hot oil.
  Serve with a horseradish sauce.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Debbie's Spiced Pecans
 Categories: Appetizers, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 c  Pecan halves
    1/4 c  Butter -- Melted
    1/2 ts Tabasco sauce
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Garlic Salt
 
  Preheat oven to 325F.  Mix all ingredients and spread on cookie
  sheet. Bake 20 - 30 minutes, stirring once or twice.  Drain on brown
  paper bag.
  
  Recipe By     : Debbie Sutton
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Easy Teriyaki Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Catsup
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Lemon juice
      2 lb Chicken wings
 
  Remove wing tips from chicken and cut apart at joint. Combine
  remaining ingredients.  Marinate chicken in shallow baking dish
  overnight, turning occasionally. Preheat oven to 375. Arrange chicken
  on rack in aluminum foil-lined shallow baking pan. Bake 40-45
  minutes, basting occasionally with marinade.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gary's Clam Dip
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      2 tb Onion -- Chopped
      3 tb Parsley -- Chopped
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
           Salt and pepper -- To taste
     12 ds Tabasco sauce
     16 oz Cream Cheese -- Room Temp.
      3 cn Clams, canned -- Minced
      1 ea Sheepherder Bread -- Round,
           Large
           (or sourdough bread round)
      1 ea French Bread -- Baguette
 
  Drain clams, reserving 1/2 C. of liquid.  With electric mixer (not
  food processor), mix together all ingredients except bread. Slice top
  off of bread round.  Hollow out bread.  Fill with dip and replace
  top.  Wrap tightly in foil.  Bake at 250 for 3 hours.
  
  Recipe By     : Gary Soto
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hawaiian Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Chicken wings
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Ginger -- ground
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 c  Onions -- chopped
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      6 oz Pineapple juice
 
  Remove wing tips from chicken and cut apart at joint. Combine
  remaining ingredients.  Marinate chicken wings for at least 24 hours.
  Preheat oven to 375.  Bake for 1 hour. Serve warm.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hawaiian Crab Cakes
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
  1 1/2 c  Onion -- finely chopped
      2    Garlic cloves -- minced
    3/4 c  Tomatoes -- chopped
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 lb Crab meat
    1/4 c  Flaked coconut
      1    Egg yolk -- beaten
    1/4 lb Butter
 
  Heat oil in skillet. Saute onions and garlic 5 minutes. Add the
  tomatoes, salt and pepper and cook over low heat 5 mins. Cool 10
  minutes. Mix crab coconut, and egg yolk. Shape into 12 patties for a
  meal or into smaller cakes or balls for appetizers. Saute in butter
  until lightly browned on both sides.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot 'n' Spicy Chicken Wings With Blue Cheese
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 24 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------------DIP---------------------------------
    1/2 c  Sour Cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      2 ts White Wine Vinegar
      1 tb Chopped Fresh Parsley
      1 tb Chopped Green Onions
    1/2 ts Minced Garlic
    1/2 ts Tabasco Pepper Sauce
      3 tb Crumbled Blue Cheese
           Salt & Pepper To Taste

MMMMM-----------------------CHICKEN WINGS----------------------------
     12    Chicken Wings
           Vegetable Oil For Frying
      4 tb Melted Butter Or Margarine
      1 ts Catsup
      1 ts Tabasco Pepper Sauce
           Celery Sticks
 
  In a bowl, beat together all of the dip ingredients until blended.
  Set aside. Remove the tips from the wings and discard. Separate the
  first and second joints of the wings with asharp knife. Pat the wings
  dry with paper towels.  In a heavy saucepan, heat Drain on paper
  towels. In a small bowl, mix the butter, catsup and Tabasco sauce.
  Toss the wings in the butter mixture to coat thoroughly.  Serve hot,
  and pass the dip and celerysticks..
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Fajita Wings With Guacamole
 Categories: Appetizers, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Honey
      2 tb Lime juice
      2 tb Chili powder
      2 tb Soy sauce
  2 1/2 lb Chicken wings -- shoulder
           Midsection only -- cut
           Apart
      1 ct (6 oz) frozen -- avocado dip
           Thawed;
      1 c  Homemade guacamole
 
  In a large plastic bag, mix honey, lime juice, chili powder, and soy
  sauce. Add wings; seal bag and mix to coat. Chill, turning
  occasionally, at least 1 hour or up to a day. Lift out wings and
  place in a single layer on racks in 2 broiler pans, each about Makes
  8 to 10 appetizer servings. Per serving: 170 calories (53% from fat),
  10 g fat (2.4 g saturated), 363 mg sodium, 29 mg cholesterol.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Stuffed Avocados
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Butter -- melted
      2 tb Flour
      1 c  Light cream (half & half)
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sacue
      2 tb Onion -- finely minced
      2 tb Celery -- finely minced
      2 c  Chicken -- cooked and cubed
      3    Ripe avocados -- peeled and
           In
    1/2 c  Cheddar cheese -- grated
           Water
           Half
 
  Place the melted butter and flour in a saucepan.  Cook over a high
  heat for 1 minute to lightly brown, stirring constantly. Stir in the
  cream. Continue cooking, stirring constantly, until thick. Turn the
  heat down and add the worcestershire sauce, onion, celery, and
  chicken. Heat thoroughly but, do not boil. Place the avocado halves
  in a baking dish. Fill with chicken mixture. Sprinkle cheese on top.
  Pour 1/4 inch of water in bottom of baking dish. Bake in a preheated
  350 degree oven for 15 to 20 minutes or until the avocados are hot
  and the cheese is melte Makes 6 servings.
  
  From: The Wild Wild West: Cuisine from the Land of Cactus & Cowboys
  Food & Wine RT [*] Category 2, Topic 22 Message 225 Mon Nov 30, 1992
  YLR.ROSE [Cafe Queen]        at 21:55 EST MM by QBTOMM and Sylvia
  Steiger, GEnie THE.STEIGERS, CI$ 71511,2253, GT Cookbook echo
  moderator, net/node 004/005
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Wings [chicken]
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter -- margarine melted
    1/4 c  Hot pepper sauce
      3 tb Vinegar
     24    Chicken drumetts
 
  . Preheat oven to 350. In small bowl,whisk together butter, pepper
  sauce and vinegar. Dip drumetts in butter mixture; arrange in single
  layer in large baking pan. Bake until chicken is browned, 30 to 40
  minutes. Sprinkle with paprika. Serve with salad dressing.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jamaican Jerk Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Ethnic
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------FOR THE MARINADE---------------------------
      1    Onion -- chopped
    2/3 c  Scallions -- chopped
      2    Garlic cloves
    1/2 ts Thyme -- crumbled
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Ground allspice
    1/4 ts Nutmeg -- grated
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 c  Jalapeno pepper -- minced
      1 ts Black pepper
      6 dr Tabasco sauce
      2 tb Soy sauce
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil

MMMMM----------------------ADD TO MARINADE---------------------------
     18    Chicken wings -- trimmed
 
  Marinade: In a food processor or blender, puree all ingredients
  except for the wings. In a large shallow dish arrange the wings in
  one layer and spoon the marinade over them, rubbing it in (use rubber
  gloves). Let them marinate, covered & chilled, turning them once, at
  least 1 hour, or preferably, overnight. Arrange the wings in one
  layer on an oiled rack set over a foil-lined roasting pan, spoon the
  marinade over them & bake in the upper third of a preheated 450F
  oven, 30-35 minutes,or until they are cooked through.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maurice's Spicy Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     40    Chicken drumettes
    3/4 c  Soy sauce
    2/3 c  Honey
      4 ts Vegetable oil
      3 tb Dry mustard
 
  Put drumettes into a plastic bag. Mix remaining ingredients together
  and pour into the bag. Close bag securely and shake until chicken is
  well coated. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours. Preheat oven to 375
  degrees. Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil and place rack on top
  of baking sheet. Remove chicken from bag and place on the rack. Bake
  for 30 minutes, until wings are crisp and golden.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 80 servings
 
     10 oz Hot Sauce -
    1/2 c  Margarine -- melted
    1/4 c  Catsup -
      1 ts Chili Powder -
      1 ts Ground Cumin seed -
    1/2 ts Garlic Powder -
      5 lb Large chicken wings -- split
           Or not, tips cut off
 
  1.Combine hot sauce margarine,catsup & spices and heat, stirring
  frequently.
  
  2. Fry wings at 365 until crispy, about 6-9 minutes depending on size
  and equipment used.( Check under ANCHOR BAR HOT WINGS for good
  handling procedure of Wings) 3. Drain well 4.Toss the wings in hot
  sauce mixture
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nan's Clams Casino
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 12 servings
 
     13 oz Minced clams -- (2 sm
           Cans)*
    1/2 c  Seasoned bread crumbs
  1 1/2 ts Garlic powder
           OR 2 garlic cloves --
           Minced
      4 tb Fresh onion -- finely diced
      3 ts Parsley -- chopped
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Oregano
           Parmesan cheese -- as
           Needed
 
  *(RESERVE JUICE of clams!!) Saute garlic, onion, parsley, oregano and
  breadcrumbs in olive oil about 2 minutes. When onion & garlic start to
  brown, add clams, juice and salt. Mix.Spoon into clams shells.
  (Mixture is very soupy until baked). Sprinkle with parmesan cheese
  and place on cookie sheet in 375 degree oven for 25 minutes. This
  recipe can be doubled or multiplied to make asmany as necessary for
  hors d'ouevres.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orignal Buffalo Wings
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 8 servings
 
           Oil for frying or baking
      2 lb CHICKEN WINGS, DISJOINTED,
           TIPS REMOVED
    1/4 c  BUTTER
    1/4 c  HOT PEPPER SAUCE
      1 tb VINEGAR
    1/2 c  BLUE CHEESE DRESSING;CHUNKY
      6    STALKS CELERY -- CUT INTO
           3" DIPPING STICKS
 
  IF DEEP FRYING, PLACE OIL IN A LARGE SKILLET AND HEAT TO 400 DEGREES.
  PLACE WINGS IN HOT OIL AND COOK 12 TO 14 MINUTES OR UNTIL GOLDEN
  BROWN. OR PREHEAT OVEN TO 450 AND PLACE 1/4 CUP OIL IN A 9 X 13
  BAKING PAN. PLACE CHICKEN IN PAN AND BAKE FOR 30 TO 35 M MEANWHILE,
  IN A MEDIUM SAUCEPAN, MELT BUTTER AND ADD HOT SAUCE AND VINEGAR. MIX
  WELL. SET ASIDE. WHEN WHINGS ARE COOKED, REMOVE FROM SKILLET OR OVEN,
  PLACE WINGS IN A PLASTIC CONTAINER AND ADD SAUCE. COVER AND SHAKE
  VIGOROUSLY UNTIL WINGS ARE COATED WELL. REMOVE WINGS TO A SERVING
  TRAY AND GARNISH WITH BLUE CHEESE DRESSING AND CELERY STICKS. *COOK'S
  NOTE* FOR A HOTTER SAUCE, ADD 1/2 TEASPOON OF CAYENNE PEPPER TO THE
  BUTTER, HOT SAUCE AND VINEGAR. FOR MILDER USE FAVORITE BARBECUE SAUCE
  INSTEAD OF HOT SAUCE.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oysters A La Bookbinder
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     12 ea Oysters
      1 ea Mushroom-large -- finely
           Chopp
      1 ts Onion-minced
      3 tb Butter
      1 ts Flour
    1/2 c  Milk-warm
    1/4 c  Oatmeal-cooked
           Salt & pepper
      1 tb Parsley-minced
      3 tb Parmesan cheese-grated
 
  Wash & shuck oysters,putting them on the half shell. Saute the
  mushroom & onion in 1 tbs. butter until soft but not browned. Add
  flour & stir to blend. Add milk & stir until thickened. Add oatmeal &
  stir well. Season to taste w/ salt & pepper. Stir in parsley. Place
  oysters under broiler for 4 min. Remove & Melt 2 tbs. butter &
  drizzle a few drops over oysters. Return to broiler & cook for 5 min.
  or until browned.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Puffed Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
     12    Chicken Wings

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      1 ts Garlic -- minced
      1 ts Gingerrroot -- minced
    1/2 c  Dry Sherry
      2 tb Sesame oil

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg -- lightly beaten
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  Add wings to marinade for at least one hour. Combine dry ingredients,
  stir in egg and milk. Pat wings dry. Dip in batter. Drip off excess.
  Heat oil 350. Fry few wings at a time, 3-4 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhode Island Clam Cakes
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Flour
      8 ts Baking Powder
      3 ts Salt
      1 ts Pepper
      4 ea Eggs
      2 c  Milk
      1 pt Clams, canned with liquid
      2 c  Lard, or more -- For deep
           Frying
 
  Mix all of above (except lard).  Deep fry at 375 by dropping from
  oiled spoon.  Salt and pepper after cooking.
  
  Recipe By     : Tim Quinn
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: San Antonio Style Chicken Wings
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizers
      Yield: 24 servings
 
     12    Chicken wings
      1 c  Pace picante sauce
    1/3 c  Catsup
    1/4 c  Honey
    1/4 ts Cumin -- ground
    2/3 c  Sour cream -- dairy
 
  Cut wings in half at joints; discard wing tips. Combine 1/3 cup of the
  picante sauce, catsup, honey and cumin; pour over chicken. Place in
  refrigerator; marinate at least 1 hour, turning once. Drain chicken,
  reserving marinade.Place on rack of foil-lined broiler pan. Bake at
  375F. for 30 minutes.  Brush chicken with reserved marinade; turn and
  bake, brushing generously with marinade every 10 minutes, until
  tender, about 30 minutes.* Place 6 inches from heat in preheated
  broiler; broil 2 to 3 minutes or until sauce loo Makes 24
  appetizers.*At this point, chicken may be refrigerated up to 24
  hours. To serve, place 6 inches from heat in preheated broiler; broil
  4 to 5 minutes. Turn; broil 4 to 5 minutes or until heated through.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Scallops A La Schaller
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Bacon -- cut in
      2 lb Small sea scallops
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/2 c  Dry vermouth
      2 tb Parsley -- chopped
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Onion powder
      1 ds Oregano
           Salad greens
 
  Wrap 1 bacon piece around each scallop; if necessary, secure with
  wooden toothpick.  Place wrapped scallops in baking dish. Combine
  olive oil, vermouth, parsley, garlic powder, pepper, onion powder and
  oregano in small bowl.  Pour over scallops.  Cover an Remove scallops
  from marinade. Arrange on broiler pan. Broil, 4 inches from heat, 7
  to 10 minutes or until bacon is brown. Turn over and brown other side
  for about 5 minutes. Remove wooden toothpicks. Arrange on platter
  lined with greens. Garnish as desired.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicey Chicken Wings
 Categories: Appetizers, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Ketchup
      2 tb Orange juice
      1 tb +1 t rc tub margarine
      1 tb Worcheshire sauce
      2 ts Honey
      3 dr Red pepper sauce
  1 1/2 lb Chicken wings
    1/4 ts Black pepper
      1 c  Diced celery
    1/2 c  Plain lowfat yogurt
    3/4 oz Crumbled blue cheese
      1 tb +1 tsp rc mayonnaise
 
  To prepare sauce, in medium bowl, combine all ingredients wxcept
  wings and black pepper. Micro on high 4 minutes, stirring once. With
  sharp knife, remove skin from wings. Place inan 11 x7" baking pan in
  a single layer; sprinkle with black pepperpepper. Spoon Pour half the
  sauce over the wings. Micro on High 6 minutes. Turn wings over;spoon
  remaining sauce over wings. Micro on high 6 min. or until juices run
  clear when skin is pricked with a fork. To prepare dip, combine all
  ingred. in small bowl. Each s 1/2M, 1 Fa, 2 1/4P, 1 V, 20 opt.
  calories/ 201 calories.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Cajun Style Buffalo Wings
 Categories: Crockpot, Appetizers
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken Wings*
      1    Bottle Kraft Spicy BBQ**
  1 1/2 ts Red Cayenne Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Black Pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic flakes -- minced
      1 ts Onion flakes -- minced
      3 tb Worcestershire Sauce
      2 tb Green Dragon or Jalapeno
           -sauce
      1 tb Tabasco Sauce
      1 tb Cajun Spice***
 
  *Chicken wings or small chicken legs; more wings or legs can be added
  if needed.
  
  **Kraft BBq or K.C. Style sauce.
  
  ***Cajun Spice or Capt. Link's Cajun seasoning.
  
  In a Crockpot; add chicken BBq Sauce, and all spices. Stir and heat
  on low for 4 hours. To serve, I suggest you pre-pare a Cajun Rice
  Recipe, and after the Buffalo Wings are cooked, pre-pare the Rice,
  pour the Rice into a container or casserole dish, spread out evenly.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Tuna Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 cn Tuna (13-oz)
  6 1/2 oz Jar or can jalapeno chiles
           Chopped
      1    Onion -- minced
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
           Chopped cilantro
           Tortilla chips (optional)
 
  Mix tuna with chopped jalapeno chiles and jalapeno liquid. Add onion
  to tuna mixture. Stir in mayonnaise until consistency is mushy.
  Sprinkle cilantro on top and serve with tortilla chips, if desired.
  Makes 1 1/2 cups
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sushi With Shrimp
 Categories: Appetizers, Seafood
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 lb Short-grain rice
      2 tb Mirin (sweet sake)
    1/4 c  Rice vinegar
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Salt
     24 lg Shrimp -- cooked
      2 ts Wasabi powder
      1    Sheet Nori
 
  Wash rice; drain 30 minutes; cook. Heat mirin, vinegar, sugar, salt,
  until boiling. Cool. Remove rice from heat and leave 10 minutes. Turn
  into large shallow dish; pour vinegar dressing over. Mix gently until
  rice is at room temp. Shape sushi into neat ov Makes 24.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Thai Stuffed Crab
 Categories: Thai, Appetizers
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Crab meat
    1/2 c  Ground pork
      1 c  Chopped shrimps
    2/3 tb Chopped garlic
      1 ts Ground white pepper
    1/2 tb Chpd cilantro roots (Subst.
      2 ts Chopped stems)
      3 tb Golden Mount or Maggi sauce
      1    Jumbo egg
      8    Clnd and dried crab shells
    1/4 c  Chopped cilantro leaves
      2 tb Red chilies -- slivered
           Oil for frying
 
  *Poo Jah DIRECTIONS: Combine crab meat, pork, shrimps, garlic, pepper,
  cilantro roots, and Golden Mount sauce well. Stuff in each crab shell
  and pack tightly. Sprinkle cilantro leaves and red chilies. Smooth
  the surface and press down securely. Bring a lot of water to a rapid
  boil in a steamer. Arrange in the stuffed crab shells. Place several
  layers of paper towels on top of the steamer, NOT the food and repla
  Cool. Beat the egg in a small bowl. In a large wok, heat lots of oil
  over medium-high heat. Dip the stuffed crab in the egg and fry meat
  side down until golden brown. Remove from oil and drain well. Cool
  slightly and serve immediately. Serve with Thai Sri
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Yellow And Red Bell Peppers Filled With Tuna
 Categories: Italian, Fish
      Yield: 16 servings
 
     10    Yellow bell peppers -- cut
           Lengthwise into thirds
     10    Red bell peppers -- cut
           Lengthwise into thirds
      1 c  Plus
      2 tb Olive oil
      5 tb Fresh lemon juice
      5    Garlic cloves -- pressed
           Salt and freshly
           Ground pepper
      3 cn Albacore tuna packed in
           Water -- drained
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      5 tb Drained capers
           Fresh parsley sprigs
           Imported black olives
           (such as Kalamata or
           Nicoise)
 
  Arrange pepper skin side up in broiler pan (in batches if necessary)
  and broil until blackened.  Wrap in paper bag and let stand 10
  minutes to steam.  Peel and pat dry. Mix olive oil, lemon juice and
  garlic in large bowl. Season with salt and pepper. Add Mix in enough
  reserved marinade to season to taste. Season with salt and pepper.
  Place 1 tablespoon tuna mixture on inside of each piece of pepper at
  one end. Roll up. Arrange seam side down on serving platter. Pour
  remaining marinade over rolls. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead. Cover
  and refrigerate.) Garnish with parsley sprigs and olives before
  serving. 16 appetizer servings.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Carrot Cheesecake
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Desserts
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM----------------CRUST:  1 1/4 C. GRAHAM WAFE---------------------
    1/3 c  Butter, melted
    1/4 ts Cinnamon
 
  In a medium bowl, combine graham wafer crumbs, butter and cinnamon.
  Press into the bottom of a 9" springform pan. Refrigerate. Filling: 4
  medium carrots, peeled and cut in 1" pieces 4 eggs 2 pkgs. (250 g.
  each) cream cheese, softened 3/4 c. packed brown sugar 1/4 c.
  all-purpose flour 1/2 tsp. cinnamon 1/2 tsp. nutmeg 1/2 tsp. vanilla
  Cook carrots; drain and puree in food processor or blender. Add eggs
  and beat well. Set aside. In a large bowl, using an electric mixer,
  beat cream cheese and brown sugar until smooth and creamy. Beat in
  flour, cinnamon, nutmeg, vanilla and carrot-egg mixture until smooth.
  Pour filling into prepared crust. Bake at 325 degrees F. for 60 to 65
  minutes or until edge is set but center is still soft. Remove from
  oven. Topping: 1 c. sour cream 2 T. granulated sugar 1/2 tsp. vanilla
  1/4 tsp. nutmeg Combine sour cream, granulated sugar and vanilla;
  carefully spread on top of hot cake. Sprinkle with nutmeg. Cool
  completely. Refrigerate 4 hours or until well chilled. Makes 12
  servings.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By NORM GEZIK  SUBJ CARROT CHEESE CAKE    On
    7-10-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Plank Grilled Salmon
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Seafood, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Salmon fillets - 6 oz each
      4 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Finely chopped shallots or
           -red onion
      1 ea Lemon, cut in half
           Coarse salt
           Coarsely crushed black
           -peppercorns
           Coarsely crushed pink
           -peppercorns (optional)
           Fresh dill sprigs
 
  The woodsy flavour that cedar imparts to salmon is nothing short of
  sensational.  To prepare 4 fillets, use one piece of well-soaked
  cedar, about 8x12x3/4 inch thick.
  1. Soak plank in water overnight.  Weight the plank to keep it
  submerged. 2. Preheat grill to high. 3. Rub 4 salmon fillets all over
  with olive oil. Top with shallots or onion and coarsely crushed black
  (and pink, if using) peppercorns. 4. Top each fillet with a few
  sprigs of fresh dill and squeeze lemon over all. 5. Place plank on
  grill and sprinkle lightly with coarse salt.  Heat with cover down
  for 2-3 minutes or until the top of the plank is nearly dry
  (indicating that it's very hot) Caution: Keep a spray bottle nearby
  to douse flames in the event the wood starts to burn. 6. Place salmon
  fillets on top of cedar.  If you have two burners on your grill, turn
  one off and place salmon on that side. Alternatively, if you only
  have one burner, turn heat to lowest setting. 7. Cook salmon with
  cover down for about 10 - 12 minutes, or just until cooked nearly all
  the way through. 8. Squeeze a little fresh lemon over salmon, and
  serve.
  
  This is a variation of a Native technique of cooking fish, adapted
  for city folk. Source: The Real Canadian Superstore
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   4 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 12mn Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Garlic, Broad Brean and Saffron Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  4 1/2 oz Long grain brown rice
  1 2/3 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
 +++++  oz Saffron strands
     20 lg Garlic cloves
  1 1/2 tb Olive oil
 2 3/16 lb Broad beans
  1 1/3 qt Chicken stock
 
  Typed for you by Kaz Dunkley.
  
  Preparation: Shell the broad beans
  
  Put the rice in a saucepan with the water, salt and saffron. Bring to
  the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 30 minutes or until all
  the water has been absorbed and the rice is tender.
  
  Meanwhile, preheat the oven to Gas Mark 5/190C/375F. Put the garlic
  cloves in a small roasting tin with the oil and roast in the oven for
  10-15 minutes or until they are soft and golden but not brown. Turn
  them once to make sure they do not brown underneath.
  
  Add the beans to the rice, pour on the stock and bring to the boil.
  Add the garlic cloves and their oil, reduce the heat and simmer for
  15 minutes. Remove from heat, cool a little then puree in a food
  processor or blender. Taste and season to taste, then serve
  immediately. Submitted By KAZ LANGRIDGE   On    7-02-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jus Senatus
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 6 SERVINGS--------------------------
           Romulan Lentil Soup
      1 c  Lentils
      1 c  Water
    1/4 lb Bacon; cut into small pieces
      2 c  Onion, chopped
      1 ea Clove of garlic
      2 c  Carrots, shredded
      1 c  Celery, shredded
     20 oz Water
     20 oz Beef broth
           Salt and pepper
 
  Put the lentils in the saucepan and add 1 cup of water. Bring to a
  boil, then simmer for about 5 minutes. Remove from the heat and let
  stand while you prepare the vegetables. Fry the bacon in a pot until
  it is browned. then add the onion and garlic and fry until the onions
  are golden. Add the broth, water, lentils. and the rest of the
  vegetables. Taste for seasoning and add salt and pepper if necessary.
  Simmer for about 30 minutes, or until the lentils are tender. FROM:
  JOANNE FERRY (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cyrano Jones Sandwiches
 Categories: Sandwich, Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Some food highlights from
           -"The Star Trek Bartender's
           -Guide And Punch
           Book" from 1976 [these come
           -verbatim with comments by
           -yours truly in
           Brackets]
           CYRANO JONES SANDWICHES
 
  Prepare graham crackers by separating each into halves. On each place
  four squares of chocolate bar. Toast marshmallows on open flame. If
  you're little, get an adult to help you with this. Now, quickly place
  each marshmallow on one of the chocolate-covere cracker halves and
  cover with other half. Squeeze the two halves together until the
  marshmallow is flat. Serve. [TCM Note: Okay, so this is just the same
  old standard treat of "'Smores". I never said they were _original_.
  <*grin*>]
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Romulan Revenge
 Categories: Dips/spread, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Spread peanut butter on
           -Ritz Crackers. Drain
           -liquid from can of sardines
           And cut sardines in half.
           -Place 1/2 sardine on top
           -of peanut butter on
           Cracker. Yum.
 
  [TCM Note: And I never said they were all _good_ either. In fact, this
  sounds suspiciously like a bar bet gone awry.]
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seetos Lagon
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------KLINGON SOUR POTATO SALAD----------------------
  2 1/2 lb Potatoes
      4 ea Green onions;chopped
    1/4 c  Parsley; chopped
    1/8 ts Dried basil
      1 ea Tb Margarine
      3 ea Eggs

MMMMM-----------------------SALAD DRESSING----------------------------
    1/4 c  Wine vinegar
      1 ea Tb Vinegar
    1/4 c  Salad oil
      2 ea Tb Salad oil
           -salt and pepper
    1/2 ts Mustard
 
  Scrub the potatoes and put them on to boil in a large saucepan with
  enough water to cover them. Bring to a boil, reduce the heat and
  simmer until they are tender, about 30 minutes or so. While they are
  cooking, mix the salad dressing and set aside. When the potatoes are
  tender, drain them and run cold water over them until they can just
  be handled. Drain them and peel them. Dice them into 1/2" pieces. Add
  the onions, parsley and salad dressing, along with a pinch of basil.
  Mix gently and set aside. In a frypan, melt the margarine; beat the
  eggs together wtih a fork and pour them into the pan. Cook until one
  side is lightly browned and the top has begun to set. Slide out onto
  a plate, flip back into the pan and cook the second side. Slice the
  omelet into thin strips and cut the strips into short lengths. Add
  the egg pieces to the salad and mix again, gently. Serve immediately,
  or keep warm in the oven (200f or less) until you are ready to serve.
  If you wish to serve it cold, chill for several hours in the
  refrigerator before serving. FROM: JOANNE FERRY (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Primary Hull Snax
 Categories: Breads, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Cut crust and sufficient
           -additional off slice of
           -bread to create
           Circular disk as large as
           -possible. Butter both
           -sides. Cut a two inch
           Circular hole in the center.
 
  In frying pan melt butter and spread around with spatular.Leaving pan
  on low heat, place bread in pan. Leave for about one minute.
  Carefully crack one egg ove the bread disk so that the yoke rests in
  the central hole. When egg/bread browns on bottom, trun over with
  spatula and fry top side until done. Add salt, pepper or seasonings
  to taste. Serve on small plate. [TCM Note: This one is actually good
  and looks neat if you're careful and have a good nonstick cooking
  surface so the egg and bread slide off nicely.]
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Klingon Feild Rations
 Categories: Snacks, Nuts/grains, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  Mix 1.5 cups popped popcorn with 1 cup of mixed nuts. Whip the whites
  of 2 eggs until stiff, gradually blending in 1 3/8 cups of
  confectioner's sugar. Fold this mixture into popcorn and nuts. Drop
  by teaspoon onto oiled cookie sheet. Bake at 350 degrees for 15
  minutes, or until brown. Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Romulan Lucernae
 Categories: Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM----------------------TANGERINE LAMPS---------------------------
      1 ea Tangerines***
           Olive oil
           Glass votive cups
 
  *** One tangerine per person and a couple extra for practice. Cut
  through the rind of the tangerine around the middle, perhaps a little
  closer to the stem end than to the bottom. Gently loosen the skin
  from the sections, and carefully remove the top (the half including
  the stem end). Gently remove the sections from the bottom half, being
  sure to leave some of the pithy center part attached to the bottom
  half of the shell. Press the pithy strands together to form a sort of
  wick about 1/4 to 1/2" long. Put about a spoonful of oil in the
  bottom half and swirl it around to coat the inside of the shell. With
  the whole inside of the shell oil-coated, the lamp will look better
  and last longer. Add or remove oil to leave a slight puddle in the
  bottom of the shell about 1/16" deep. Then light the wick. This will
  probably take several tries, before it will stay lit. Next, take the
  top half, and cut a 1" hole in the center so that the flame can get
  air when you set the top back on the bottom half. Oil the inside of
  the top half of the lamp, and then wipe it dry so that more light
  will be able to shine through. Place the lamp on top of the votive
  cup and it is ready. FROM: JOANNE FERRY (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Vix Vivax
 Categories: Breads, Fruit, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 4 loaves
 
MMMMM----------------ROMULAN RAISIN WALNUT BREAD---------------------
      4 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Butter
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 ea Tb Light molasses
      2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Sour cream
      2 ea Pk Dry yeast
     13 c  Flour (more or less)
      2 c  Golden raisins
      2 c  Walnuts; coarsely chopped
      1 ea Egg; for glaze
           ***This makes 4 loaves of
           -bread
 
  Scald the milk. Add the butter, sugar, molasses and salt. Let it cool
  for about 10 minutes and add the sour cream, beating with a wire
  whisk to mix it all thoroughly. Pour it into a large bowl. When the
  liquid is cool enough so that a drop on the inside of your wrist is
  not hot enough to hurt, add the yeast. (if you add yeast to the hot
  mixture, you will kill the yeast and the bread will not rise.) Add
  about 5 cups of flour, 1 cup at a time, and mix it well with the
  liquid, breaking up lumps as you mix. Add raisins and walnuts. Add
  flour, 1 cup at a time, until the dough is no longer very sticky; it
  should be right when you have added about 12 cups. Sprinkle out about
  1/4 to 1/2 cup flour onto a clean board or countertop. Dump the dough
  onto the floury place and scrape out the bowl onto the dough. Wash,
  dry and grease the bowl. Now, knead the dough for about 15 to 20
  minutes using up the last of the flour. It should feel stretchy and
  elastic. Put the dough into the greased bowl and grease the top.
  Cover it will a damp cloth and set it in a warm place to rise. It may
  take as much as 2 hours until it is double in bulk. When it has
  doubled in bulk, flour a place on the counter, dump it out and knead
  it again for about 5 minutes. Divide the dough into 4 equal parts and
  grease 4 bread pans. Shape the dough into loaves and put 1 in each
  pan. Cover the pans with a damp cloth and let the dough rise until
  about double in bulk, about 1 hour. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees,
  brush the tops of the loaves with beaten egg, and put them in the
  oven. Bake at 325 for 30 minutes and then at 300 degrees for another
  30 minutes. The loaves will sound "hollow" when tapped when they are
  done. Take them out of the oven as soon as they are done. Turn them
  out of the pan onto cake racks. The bread is best served warm, but it
  may be cooled and then frozen to save. FROM: JOANNE FERRY (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Criniti
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------ROMULAN SPICE COOKIES------------------------
      1 c  Butter
      2 c  Brown sugar
      2 ea Eggs
  2 2/3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Cloves
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Baking powder
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1 c  Raisins
    1/3 c  Milk
 
  In a large mixing bowl, cream the butter and brown sugar together.
  Add the eggs and stir vigorously until the mixture is well blended.
  In a small bowl, mix together all the dry ingredients except the
  raisins and walnuts. Then add the dry ingredients and the milk to the
  butter mixture, stir it in gently, and when it is all moistened, stir
  hard to mix it all together evenly. You should have a stiff batter.
  Fold in the raisins and nuts and mix them in well. Grease your cookie
  sheet, and preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Drop the dough onto the
  sheet by the spoonful. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the
  cookies just begin to brown at the edges and a toothpick comes out
  clean. FROM: JOANNE FERRY (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lakana
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------KLINGON CABBAGE SALAD------------------------
      3 c  Cabbage; shredded
      1 c  Carrots; shredded
    1/4 c  Green onions, thinly sliced
      6 ea Tb Sour cream
    1/4 c  Wine vinegar
      3 ea Tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Mustard
    1/2 ts Dried dill weed
 
  Combine cabbage, carrots, and green onions in a bowl. Set aside. In a
  small bowl mix the sour cream, vinegar, sugar, salt and mustard. Stir
  until well mixed. Sprinkle the dried dill over the vegetables, pour
  on the dressing and mix well. Chill before serving. FROM: JOANNE
  FERRY (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ooruni Kapiki
 Categories: Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM----------------KLINGON PORK AND SAUERKRAUT---------------------
      2 ea Tb Oil
      1 ea Onion; chopped
  2 1/2 lb Pork, lean
           -cut into bite sized cubes
      3 lb Sauerkraut (3 1lb cans)
      2 c  Sour cream
           Sweet Hungarian paprika
 
  Heat the oil in the skillet and fry the onion until golden. Then add
  the pork cubes, increase the heat and brown them lightly. Reduce the
  heat to simmering temperature. Drain the sauerkraut thoroughly and
  add it to the meat and onion. Simmer the meat and sauerkraut
  together, covered for about 45 minutes, or until the meat is tender.
  Then, stir in the sour cream, dust liberally with the Hungarian
  paprika, and serve immediately. Ooruni Kapiki may be served with
  mashed potatoes. FROM: JOANNE FERRY (CMSJ69B)
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On    7-09-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Potatoes Primavera
 Categories: Side dish, Potatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 lg Mushrooms, cleaned &
           -quartered
      2 md Zucchini, cut into 1" cubes
      2 md Red Bell Peppers, seeded --
           -cut 1" cubes
      2 md Idaho Potatoes, scrubbed --
           -cut 1" cubes
      1 md Chopped Onion -- coarsely
           -chopped
      5 ts Olive Oil
           Salt & Freshly Ground Pepper
           -to taste
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees.  In a large roasting pan, toss together
  all ingredients except salt & pepper.  Roast for about 45 minutes, or
  until vegetables are nicely browned and potatoes are tender, stirring
  occasionally.  Sprinkle with salt & pepper.  Serve hot or at room
  temperature.
  
  NUTRITION FACTS (per serving):  138 calories; 6 g fat (0.8 g
  saturated); 0 mg cholesterol; 10 mg sodium; 19.5 g carbos; 3.7 g
  fiber; 3.7 g protein; 756 mg potassium; 27 mg calcium.
  
  Recipe By     : Patricia Baird - The Pyramid Cookbook
  
  From: Jean Cash                       Date: 07-17-95 (14:16) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grapefruit Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pastry
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Jewel shortening
           Cold water
      2 c  Sifted flour
           Filling
    1/2 c  Sifted pastry flour
      1 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Boiling water
    1/3 c  Milk
      3    Egg yolks,beaten
    1/2 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Grapefruit juice
      1 ts Grated grapefruit rind
           Meringue
      3    Egg whites
      4 tb Sugar
 
  Make simple pie shell and bake.Combine flour,sugar and salt; stir in
  water and milk.Stir and cook over boiling water until mixture
  thickens and no raw flour flavour remains. Stir into egg yolks and
  return to double boiler; stir and cook until thick. Remove from heat
  and add butter,grapefruit juice and rind.Cool slightly; turn into
  baked pie shell.Cover with lightly piled meringue of the egg whites
  and sugar.
  
  Typed by G.Major              07\13\95 From Aunt B's Collection of
  Labels and Newspapers
  Submitted By GEORGINA MAJOR   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kolachkies
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Butter, softened
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      1    Egg, beaten
      2 cn Solo filling (apricot,
           -poppyseed, raspberry,
           -almond, etc.)
 
  SOURCE: Natl Cooking Echo 19 Jun 90
  
  Contributed to the echo by: Debra Heng Originally from: Mom's Polish
  Neighbor
  
  Well, I finally found that recipe I told you about, and another one
  that's slightly different. Neither is anything like the ones I saw
  posted on the echo the past few days. The first one is tried and true
  from my mom's Polish neighbor. The second is from the folks who make
  the Solo filling.
  
  MARIANNE'S KOLACKIES
  
  Cream butter and cream cheese together. Add egg, vanilla; then mix in
  the flour. Cover and chill for a few hours to overnight. Roll out on
  lightly floured board to 1/4" thickness and cut with round cookie
  cutters. Place them on a cookie sheet as you would cookies. Use thumb
  to make indentation in center of each. Fill with about 1 tsp of
  desired filling. Bake at 350 F until lightly golden, about 10-15
  minutes (guessing here, I just do it by sight).
  
  Makes enough for a whole house of hungry Polish people at Christmas or
  Easter time! For ordinary folks (as Justin Wilson would quip), I'd
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CORNBREAD DRESSING (NADA'S)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Casseroles
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      4 c  Biscuits, crumbled *
      8 c  Cornbread, 10" skillet *
           Crumbled
      4 c  Liquid, stock from giblets**
      1    Margarine, 1 stick
      1    Onion, sauteed
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper, black
      3 ts Seasoning, poultry
      1 ts Sage
           Onion powder to taste
           Celery seed to taste

MMMMM--------------------------BISCUITS-------------------------------
      1 c  Flour, all purpose
      1 c  Flour, self rising
      3 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Shortening
    3/4 c  Milk
      1 tb Vinegar, white
 
  Preheat oven to 325. Mix all of the ingredients thoroughly. Bake at
  325 for 50 minutes or until done to taste.
  
  *  Cornbread and Biscuits should be day old. ** Should be moist but
  not runny.
     Seasonings may be added or adjusted to taste.
  
  NOTE: About (1) rounds of 8" or (1) 10" round of cornbread make
  about 8 cups.
  
  BISCUITS: Heat oven to 450 (HOT). Add vinegar to milk and sat aside.
  Mix dry ingredients in mixing bowl. Cut in shortening with pastry
  blender until mixture looks like "meal". Stir in almost all of the
  milk. If dough does not seem pliable, add enough to make a soft,
  puffy dough easy to roll out. Round up on lightly floured
  cloth-covered board. Knead lightly about 6 times. Handle lightly.
  Roll dough to about " thick . Cut with floured biscuit cutter. Place
  on an ungreased baking sheet. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until golden
  brown. (2" cutter makes about 15 biscuits) Submitted By ROBERT
  BURNHAM   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CORNBREAD DRESSING (A)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Casseroles
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 c  Celery, chopped
      1 c  Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine
      6 c  Cornbread, day old, crumbled
      2 c  Bread, fresh crumbs
      1 tb Sage, dried
      1 tb Poultry seasoning
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
      1 c  Chicken broth *
 
  Heat oven to 400. In a skillet saute celery and onion in butter until
  tender. Place in a large bowl with cornbread, bread crumbs, sage, and
  poultry seasoning, mix well. Combine eggs and chicken broth; add to
  cornbread mixture, stirring gently to mix. Place in a 2 qt casserole
  dish, cover and bake at 400 for 20 minutes, uncover and bake 10
  minutes longer or until lightly browned.
  
  NOTE: Dressing may be baked uncovered at 325 for 50 minutes or until
  done to taste.
  
  * Dressing should be moist but not runny, add broth as required.
  Submitted By ROBERT BURNHAM   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pesto Salmon With Pan Roasted Potatoes For Two Micro
 Categories: Microwave, Vegetables, Seafood
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    2/3 lb Potatoes; 1"chunks
           -(2 medium)
      2 ea Salmon steaks
           -(6 to 8 ounces each)
      2 tb Prepared pesto
      1 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Garlic cloves; minced
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Heat oven to 400 degrees F.
  
  Place potatoes in shallow 1 quart microwave safe dish. Cover with
  plastic wrap, venting one corner. Microwave on HIGH 6 minutes until
  just tender.
  
  Spread top of each salmon steak with pesto, dividing equally. Place on
  rimmed baking sheet. Bake until salmon is opaque throughout, 15 to 20
  minutes.
  
  In medium nonstick skillet over high heat combine oil and garlic. Add
  poatoes. pan roast, tossing, 5 to 8 minutes, until golden brown.
  Season with salt and pepper. Serve salmon with potatoes.
  
  Makes 2 servings
  
  Nutritional Information Per Serving: (based on 6 oz salmon steaks)
  Calories: 360 Fat: 14 g Cholesterol: 35 mg Sodium: 1150 mg
  Carbohydrate: 29 g Fiber: 2 g Protein: 29 g
  
  Suggested menu Italian Bread Artichoke Hearts Vinaigrette Poached
  Pears
  
  NOTE: Microwave cooking times are based on a 700 watt microwave.
  Adjust cooking times to your own oven.
  
  Source: National Potato Promotion Board Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Zucchini Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      3    Eggs
      2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Oil
      2 c  Zucchini, peeled, grated and
           Drained
      3 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Soda
      1 c  Crushed pineapple, drained
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Pecans, chopped
 
  Beat eggs, sugar, vanilla and oil until fluffy.  Add the zucchini,
  flour, baking powder, salt and soda.  Mix well.  Stir in pineapple,
  raisins, and pecans and mix well.  Bake in greased and floured 9 x 13
  inch pan for 50 to 55 minutes at 325 degrees. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepsi Cola Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      3 tb Cocoa
      1 c  Pepsi Cola
      2    Sticks margarine
      2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Unsifted flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Soda
 
  Boil together cocoa, Pepsi Cola and margarine.  Put in a large mixing
  bowl the sugar, flour and salt.  Pour boiling Pepsi mix over and beat
  until smooth.  Beat in whole eggs and vanilla.  Remove bowl from
  mixer and by hand stir in buttermilk and soda.  Put in a greased 13 x
  9 inch pan and bake 35 to 45 minutes at 350 degrees.  When done, pour
  on hot Pepsi icing:
  
  Icing: 1 stick margarine 3 tb. cocoa 6 tb. Pepsi (1/3 cup) 1 lb.
  confectioners sugar 1 ts. vanilla
  
  Boil margarine, cocoa and Pepsi.  Beat into confectioners sugar until
  smooth.  Add vanilla. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-15-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mother's Port Wine Sauce
 Categories: Aust/german, Desserts, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      2 tb Corn startch
        ds Salt
      1 c  Boiling water
      1    Stick cinnamon (opt)
    1/2 c  Port wine
      1 tb Butter
           Juice of 1/2 lemon
      2    Or 3 lemonslices
           Several dashes nutmeg
           Few drops red cake coloring
 
    Mix sugar, starch, salt and water.  Cook and stir well.  When
  mixture thickens add butter, wine, lemon juice, nutmeg, lemon slices
  and cinnamon stick.  Stir well.
  
    This sauce may be served over custards, puddings, or plain cakes.
  It is better if you let it set for several hours.
  
  ~ Mrs. D. J. Hoester, Sr.
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jay's Jelly Gems
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Butter
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Egg yolks
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Almond flavoring
           Jelly, flavor optional
 
    Cream butter and sugar.  Add egg yolks, flour and flavoring.  Mix
  well. Form into small balls.  Place on greased cookie sheet.  Press
  thumb into each cookie.  Fill indentation with jelly.
  
  Bake in oven @ 400 until brown.
  
  ~ Mrs. M. W. Duderstadt
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apfel Schnee (Apple Snow) - for Custards
 Categories: Aust/german, Desserts, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 qt Milk
      6    Eggs
      4 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      6    Apples
 
  Let milk come to a boil.  Beat sugar and yolks of eggs well and stir
  into milk.  Add a pinch of salt and continue stirring to prevent
  curdling.
  
  When cool, add vanilla.  Before serving, beat the egg whites to a
  stiff froth with 1/2 cup sugar.  Fold in the grated apples.  Drop by
  spoonful on custard.
  
  ~ Mrs Victor Keidel - Fredericksburg, Tx typed & posted by teri
  chesser 7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Speculaci (Sugar Cookies) {overnight}
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
  4 1/2 c  Flour
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 lb Butter (NOT margarine)
      3    Eggs
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Cinnamon (optional)
 
  Cream butter and sugar.  Add beaten eggs.  Mix well.  Then add flour
  and baking powder.  Chill for an hour or so.  Roll out on flour and
  sugar board and cut with cookie cutters.  Let stand overnight.  Next
  day place colored sugar on cookies or plain sugar or none at all.
  Bake at 350. Be sure not to brown too fast.
  
  NOTE: Another way to use this dough: Cut into diamond shapes. Let
  stand overnight.  Next morning beat stiff 1 egg white and brush on
  each diamond. Then add finely chopped nuts.
  
  ~ Mrs. Merlee Petermann - Fredericksburg, Tx typed & posted by teri
  chesser 7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oma Petmecky's Molasses Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Shortening
      1    Egg
      3 ts Ginger
      1 c  Sorghum molasses
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts (opt)
      1 ts Soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Hot water
      3 c  Flour (to start with)

MMMMM---------------------------GLAZE--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Confectioners sugar
      2 ts Milk
      2 ts Any desired extract
 
  Cream sugar and shortening well.  Stir in egg.  Mix in molasses and
  salt. Dissolve soda in hot water.  Add ginger to flour.  Add flour
  and water alternately to mixture.  Add chopped nuts, then add enough
  flour until consistency to roll out (about 5 to 6 cups).  Decorate
  with nut meats, if desired after cutting out.  Bake at 350 for about
  10 to 12 minutes. Good with glaze.
  
  Mix glaze ingredients and glaze cookies.
  
  ~ Mrs. Richard Alberthal, Fredericksburg, Tx typed & posted by teri
  chesser 7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Chip Kisses - Forgotten
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Chocolate, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2    Egg whites
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 c  Chocolate chips
      1 c  Chopped nuts
 
     Beat egg whites until frothy.  Add sugar and beat until sugar is
  dissolved.  Add salt, vanilla; fold in chocolate chips and nuts.
     Preheat oven to 350.  Drop by teaspoon on brown paper on cookie
  sheet.
   Place in preheated 350 oven; shut door, turn off heat.  Do not open
  door until oven has cooled - preferably several hours.
  
  ~ Mrs. Bailey Hale & Mrs. Clinton Kramer, Fredericksburg, Tx. typed &
  posted by teri chesser   7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brot Pudding (Bread Pudding) - with Apples
 Categories: Aust/german, Desserts
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      4    OR 5 slices dry bread
      2    Apples
      1 c  Sugar
      2    Eggs
      2 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/4 ts Salt
 
    Break the bread in small pieces and layer it with apples.  Beat 2
  eggs and add sugar,milk, vanilla, and salt.  Pour this mixture over
  apples and bread.  Sprinkle top with sugar and cinnamon.  Bake at
  325 for 1 hour.
  
  Serve hot with wine sauce (see recipe) or cold with cream.
  
  ~ Mrs. Alfred Cameron, Fredericksburg, Tx typed & posted by teri
  chesser 7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wine Sauce
 Categories: Aust/german, Salsa/sauce, Desserts
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      1    Well-beaten egg
    3/4 c  Wine
      1 pn Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
 
    Mix and before serving set in a bowl of hot water until warm.  Do
  not cook.  Stir until well blended.  Especially good served over
  bread pudding or rice puddings.
  
  ~ Mrs. Victor Nixon, Fredericksburg, Tx typed & posted by teri
  chesser 7/95 Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger Snaps {Fredericksburg}
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Shortening
      1 c  Molasses
      1    Egg
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Soda
      3 ts Ginger
      4 c  Flour
 
     Cream shortening, sugar and ginger.  Add unbeaten egg and beat
  well. Add molasses and mix thoroughly.  Sift flour, soda and salt
  five times. Add to creamed mixture.  Form into little balls and bake
  in slow oven, 325 - 350 on greased cookie sheet, 12 to 15 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. Kurt Eckhardt, Fredericksburg, Tx typed & posted by teri
  chesser 7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Powder Puff Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 c  Flour; sifted
      1 ts Cream of tartar
    1/2 ts Baking soda
      1 c  Confectioners sugar
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
 
     Mix and sift together 2 cups sifted flour, 1 teaspoon cream of
  tartar, and 1/2 teaspoon baking soda.  Measure in bowl and blend 1 cup
  confectioners sugar; 1 cup butter; 1 egg; 1 teaspoon vanilla.  Add
  flour, mix until smooth.  Make in little balls, flatten by pressing
  crosswise on top with fork.  Bake in moderate oven 350 for 7 - 8
  minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. Henry P. Schmidt
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moma's Molasses Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 lb Homemade molasses (1 pint)
      2 c  Sugar
      1 c  Butter or margarine
      1 ts Soda dissolved in
      2 tb Warm water
  2 1/2 lb Flour (8 cups)
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Cloves
      1 ts Cardamon powder (opt)
      1 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Heat molasses, sugar, and sugar.  When cool, add soda dissolved in 2
  Tb. warm water.  Sift together flour and spices.  Add dry ingredients
  to cooled mixture and add pecans.
  
  Roll out very thin on board prepared with flour and sugar.  Cut in
  desired shape and place on greased cookie sheet.  Let stand over
  night in cool place.  Bake at 300 F only until slightly crisp but
  not brown.
  
  (If desired, cookies may be baked same day they are prepared.)
  
  ~ Mrs. J. Hardin Perry
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frucht Plaetzchen (Fruit Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
      1 c  EACH raisins, chopped dates,
           AND chopped pecans
      1 ts Soda dissolved in
      2 ts Sour cream
    1/2 ts EACH cloves, cinnamon, all-
           Spice and nutmeg
      2 c  Flour
    1/2    Wine glass of wine (1/4 cup)
    1/2 pk Chopped candied cherries
 
  Cream sugar and butter.  Add soda dissolved in sour cream; add fruit.
  Sift flour 3 times with spices, then add alternately with win.  Bake
  at 350 about 15 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. Harold Leyendecker
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lebkuchen Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    1/2 c  Honey
    1/2 c  Molasses
    3/4 c  Packed brown sugar
      1    Egg
      3 c  To 3-1/2 C. flour
    1/2 ts Baking powder & baking soda
      1 ts EACH cinnamon, allspice,
           Nutmeg, AND cardamon
           BOILED ICING
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Confectioners sugar
 
  Mix honey, molasses and brown sugar; bring to a boil.  Cool
  thoroughly. Meanwhile combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, and
  spices. Add egg and flour mix to cooled mixture.  Cool for an hour or
  so and roll out on floured board.
  
  Cut into desired shapes.  Let stand overnight.  Bake each pan by
  itself at 350.  Then quickly remove from baking sheet and ice.  Let
  them stand to mellow about 2 weeks.
  
  BOILED ICING: Boil sugar and water until first indication of a thread
  appears (230).  Remove from heat.  Stir in confectioners sugar and
  brush hot icing thinly over cookies.  If it should get a little hard
  or sugary add a little warm water.
  
  ~ Mrs. Merlee Petermann
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tante's Nuss Plaetzchen (Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 144 sm.squares
 
      1 c  Margarine
      1 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs (reserve 1 egg white
           -- for topping)
  2 1/2 c  Flour (or more, depending
           -- on size of eggs
      1 ts Baking powder
      2 c  Finely ground pecans, SAVING
    1/4 c  -- for topping
           Grated rind of large lemon
 
     Cream margarine; add sugar gradually; beat in eggs.  Sift baking
  powder with flour and add to mixture.  Add pecans and fold in lemon
  rind.
  
     Roll very thin on lightly floured board.  Spread with beaten egg
  white and sprinkle pecans on top.  Cut into 1 1/4-inch squares.  Bake
  on greased cookie sheet only until lightly browned at 275.
  
  Makes 144 small cookie squares.
  
  ~ Jan Cox
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baby Peas, Florentine Style
 Categories: Vegetables, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 pk (10-oz.) Frozen petite peas;
           -thawed OR: 4 lbs.
           -(unshelled weight) early
           -peas, shelled
    1/4 c  Fresh parsley; minced
      2 tb Soy bacon chips; softened by
           -soaking in hot water,
           -covered, 10 minutes, then
           -drained
    1/4 c  Garlic guilt-free bread
           -spread (see sep. recipe)
        x  Freshly ground black pepper
 
  In a large, heavy skillet, cook the peas with about one-third cup
  water over medium heat, covered, for 5 minutes (for frozen; 10
  minutes for fresh), or just until tender and still bright green.
  
  Drain off any remaining water.  Stir in the parsley, soy bacon chips
  and the spread.  Toss well with salt to taste and a few twists of the
  pepper mill.  Serve immediately.
  
  Nutritional analysis per serving:  54 calories, 4g protein, 0g fat, 9g
  carbohydrate.
  
  Source:  "The (Almost) No Fat Holiday Cookbook" by Bryanna Clark
  Grogan (Book Publishing Co., 1995, $12.95), as seen in the Corydon
  Ireland column in THE OLYMPIAN, 7/12/95.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guilt-Free Bread Spread
 Categories: Dips/spread
      Yield: 1 cups
 
      1 c  Cold water
      2 ea Cloves peeled garlic
      2 tb Cornstarch (other starches
           -don't work as well)
    2/3 c  Reduced fat, medium firm,
           -regular tofu
      4 ts Plain, nondairy beverage
           -powder (available in
           -natural foods stores)
      1 ts Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Nutritional yeast flakes
    1/2 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Dried herb of choice
    1/8 ts Paprika
    1/8 ts Turmeric
 
  In a small saucepan, mix together the water and cornstarch.  Stir the
  mixture over high heat constantly until it is thickened and clear.
  Place it in the blender or food processor with the other ingredients
  and blend until very smooth.
  
  Place in an airtight container and refrigerate.  Keeps only about one
  week. Melts nicely over vegetables, too.
  
  The spread by itself, per 1-tablespoon serving:  7 calories, 1g
  protein, 0g fat, 1g carbohydrates.
  
  Source:  "The (Almost) No Fat Holiday Cookbook" by Bryanna Clark
  Grogan (Book Publishing Co., 1995, $12.95), as seen in the Corydon
  Ireland column in THE OLYMPIAN, 7/12/95.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polenta with Cauliflower, Tomatoes and Hot Peppers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      6 ea Garlic cloves
    1/4 ts Crushed red pepper flakes
  1 1/2 c  Finely chopped canned
           -tomatoes, with juice
      1 md (2 lbs.) Cauliflower, cut
           -into small florets
      4 c  Vegetable stock
    1/4 ts Salt
  1 1/4 c  Cornmeal
      1 tb Unsalted butter
    1/3 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Minced fresh parsley
 
  Heat the oil in a large skillet over medium heat.  Add the garlic and
  pepper flakes and saute' for 2 minutes.  Stir in the tomatoes and
  simmer for 5 minutes.  Mix in the cauliflower and toss to coat
  thoroughly with the sauce.  Cover the pan and cook 5 minutes.  Remove
  the cover, then continue to cook cauliflower about 5 more minutes.
  
  Meanwhile bring the vegetable stock and salt to a boil. Very slowly
  drizzle in the cornmeal, whisking continuously with a wire whisk.
  Immediately reduce the heat to low, continue whisking the polenta
  until it is thick like mashed potatoes, about 5 minutes.  Whisk in
  the butter and Parmesan cheese.
  
  Stir the parsley into the cauliflower mixture.  Serve the polenta on
  the center of each plate with a mound of cauliflower on top of it.
  
  Nutritional analysis per serving:  310.7 calories; 9.3g total fat
  (3.6g saturated); 9.3g protein; 45.4g carbohydrates; 13.5 mg
  cholesterol; 505.7mg sodium.
  
  Source:  "Main Course Vegetarian Pleasures," as seen in the food
  pages of THE OLYMPIAN, 7/12/95.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Antipasto Salad I
 Categories: Salads, Pasta, Appetizers, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM-------------------------VEGETABLES------------------------------
      1 sm Cauliflower, cut into small
           --  small flowerettes
      3 lg Carrots, thinly sliced
      1 ea Green bell pepper, diced
      1 c  Black olives
  2 1/2 c  Pasta, rotini

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
  1 1/4 c  Oil, vegetable or corn
    3/4 c  Cider vinegar
      2 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 tb Sugar
           Salt & pepper
 
  VEGETABLES: In large bowl, toss together cauliflower, carrots, green
  pepper and olives. Cook rotini in large pot of boiling salted water
  till tender but firm about 8 to 10 minutes, drain and rinse in cold
  water.
  
  DRESSING: Combine oil, vinegar, garlic and sugar, adding salt and
  pepper to taste; mix well. Pour all but 1/3 cup dressing over salad,
  tossing to mix, reserve remaining dressing. Cover and refrigerate
  overnight. Just before serving, taste and readjust seasonings and add
  remaining dressing if necessary.
  
  Carol Ferguson, "The Canadian Living Cookbook"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chilie Tomato Salad
 Categories: Salads, Indian, Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      6 sm Tomatoes
    1/2 bn Parsley, chopped
    1/2 ea Hot green chili, chopped
  1 1/2 ts Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 pn Salt & pepper
      1 pn Cayenne
 
  Quarter the tomatoes.  Mix parsley & chili with the tomatoes & chill.
  Combine the remaining ingredients & set aside to rest.  Just before
  serving, mix the salad dressing with the salad.
  
  Adapted from Ismail Merchant's "Indian Cuisine"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shepherd's Salad
 Categories: Salads, Turkish, Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lg Ripe tomatoes, diced
      2 sm Cucumbers, sliced
      1 sm Onion, diced
      3 ea Green onions, minced
      1 lg Green bell pepper, diced
      1 ea Hot green chili, minced
      1 c  Chopped fresh parsley
      1 tb Vinegar
           Salt
           Oil & lemon dressing
 
  Toss all the ingredients together in a bowl.  Add the dressing &
  vinegar & mix well.
  
  Ayla Esen Algar, "The Complete Book of Turkish Cooking"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salade a la Caraibe
 Categories: Side dish, Caribbean, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  White cabbage, shredded
      1 c  Cucumber, grated
      1 ea Red bell pepper, sliced in
           -- circles
      1 ea Mango, peeled, stoned, slice
      5 ea Scallions, chopped
      1 ea Avocado, peeled & sliced
      1 ea Garlic clove, crushed
           Juice of 2 lemons
      5 tb Olive oil
      1 ea Handful watercress
           Salt & pepper
 
  First, arrange the cabbage, cucumber, bell pepper, mango & scallions
  in a salad bowl.  Now put in half the avocado slices.  Then blend the
  garlic with the lime or lemon juice, olive oil & salt & pepper.  Pour
  half the dressing over the vegetables & mango & toss.
  
  Now arrabge the watercress & remaining avocado slices on top &
  drizzle the rest of the dressing over before serving.
  
  Troth Wells, "The World in Your Kitchen"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zucchine a Fiammifero (Matchstick Zucchini Salad)
 Categories: Salads, Italian, Appetizers, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      8 sm Zucchini, lightly steamed
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Garlic clove, minced
  1 1/2 tb Rosemary, minced
  1 1/2 tb Sage leaves, minced
      1 tb Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Salt
           Black pepper
 
  Let the steamed zucchini cool.  Warm 1 tb olive oil in a small saute
  pan over very low heat & add the garlic.  Let it sweat so that the
  flavour infuses the oil.  Add the rosemary & sage & let them wilt in
  the oil for a minute or so.
  
  Cut the cooled zucchini into strips the size of kitchen matchsticks &
  place them in the salad bowl.  Whisk together the lemon juice, 1/4 c
  olive oil, salt, pepper & garlic-herb infused oil.  Toss carefully,
  being extremely careful not damage the fragile zucchini pieces. Serve
  at room temperature.
  
  Carol Field, "Italy in Small Bites"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wine Sauce {fredericksburg}
 Categories: Aust/german, Salsa/sauce, Desserts
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Butter
      1    Well-beaten egg
    3/4 c  Wine
      1 pn Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Lemon extract
 
    Mix and before serving set in a bowl of hot water until warm.  Do
  not cook.  Stir until well blended.  Especially good served over
  bread pudding or rice puddings.
  
  ~ Mrs. Victor Nixon, Fredericksburg, Tx typed & posted by teri
  chesser 7/95 Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sugar classifications and names
 Categories: Information
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           English castor sugar is the
           -equivalent of USA
           -superfine sugar. English
           Icing sugar is the
           -equivalent of powdered
           -sugar or 10x sugar (used to
           Frost or "ice" cakes)
 
  In England I used to put granulated sugar in the blender and blend
  for a couple of seconds, no too long or it will turn into powdered
  sugar. Actually, in the USA the regular granulated sugar is finer
  than the British granulated sugar, so you could probably just use the
  regular sugar with no detriment to the recipe. In fact a lot of
  recipes calling for castor sugar can just as easily be made with
  granulated sugar. Hope this helps. If you need any further assistance
  converting British ingredients to US ingredients, do not hesitate to
  ask:-) Shared by: Sylvia Mease
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curry Information
 Categories: Information, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           This Article is taken from
           -The Herbalist, newsletter
           -of the
           Botanic Medicine Society.
           -COPYRIGHT Dec 1988.
           CURRIES
 
  We consider curries native to India and do not realize how many
  different types there are. There seems to be many misconceptions
  about curries in general. Curry is a fashion of cooking: a process
  whereby meats, fish, vegetables or even fruit are cooked in varying
  combinations of ground herbs and spices, (known as curry pastes), to
  produce a stew like dish. All dishes that are hot and spicy are not
  curries, nor are all curries fiery hot. Curry powder is an amalgam of
  some "Indian" spices best applied to the flavorings of curry dips and
  dishes where a hint of curry influence is desired. In a Thai curry,
  the proportion of solids to liquid is small. As they are always eaten
  over large mounds of steamed rice, just a few solids suffice and the
  flavour of the spicy, highly flavored gravy is extended by the bland
  rice. Curry pastes should be a marvelous, aromatic mixture of freshly
  ground herbs and spices. When preparing a curry paste, it is
  preferable to first use a mortar and pestle with the hard fibrous
  ingredients rather than including them with other ingredients in a
  food processor or blender. The pounding of the pestle crushes the
  husks and fibers releasing the oils and juices, whereas the processor
  and blender merely cut the spices. For the modern kitchen cook with
  no time to spare, a food processor in conjunction with an electric
  spice or coffee type grinder can be used. This does not however
  eliminate the requirement for a mortar and pestle. For mashing moist
  herbs like lemon grass, garlic and shallots there is no substitute.
  However, the whole dried spices (chilies, cloves), give out their
  best aroma when pulverized by a good grinder. When you are preparing
  a paste, single out the hard and dried spices and pound or grind them
  first before proceeding further. RED CURRY PASTE. 14 medium, dried
  red chilies, seeded or 1 tbs. ground red chili powder (cayenne). 2
  shallots, minced. 1 tsp. caraway seeds or 1 tsp. ground caraway. 1
  tbs. whole coriander seeds or 1 tbs. ground. 8 pieces galangal root
  (Laos), chopped or powdered. 2 tbs coriander roots, minced. 1 tsp,
  salt. 1 lime peel, finely chopped. 1 stalk lemon grass, minced. 1
  tsp. whole black peppercorns or 1 tsp. freshly ground black pepper.
  1/2 tsp. kaffir lime powder (pew makrut) or substitute 1 bay leaf. 1
  tbs. garlic, minced. 4 tbs. vegetable oil. Method. 1. Place the whole
  dried spices (chilies, caraway, coriander, galangal root and
  peppercorns) in an electric spice grinder or mortar and grind or
  pound to a powder. Omit this step if ground spices are used. Empty
  this powder into the food processor and add the remaining
  ingredients, including the oil, and process or pound to a smooth,
  even paste. Now that you've got this part together here comes the
  recipe for the meal! THAI FRIED CURRIED RICE  Serves 6 3 tbs.
  safflower oil. 2 tbs. red curry paste. 8 oz. broccoli, steamed. 1 cup
  cauliflower, steamed. 2 lbs. cooked long grain rice (2 cups). 2 tbs.
  finely chopped shallots. 2 red chilies, seeded and finely chopped. 2
  medium onions, finely chopped. 1 tbs. lemon or lime juice. 1 tbs.
  soya sauce. Method 1. Heat the oil in a wok or large frying pan and
  stir the curry paste for 3 minutes. Add the steamed vegetables and
  stir fry until well heated through. Add the rice, mix well and
  continue to stir fry until heated through. Transfer to a serving
  dish. 2. Sprinkle shallots over the top with chilies. 3. Sprinkle
  with chopped onions, lemon juice and soya sauce before serving.
  Shared by: Jim Anderson, Oct/94.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curries, history and text
 Categories: Information, Curries
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           No Ingredients Found
 
  This Article is taken from The Herbalist, newsletter of the Botanic
  Medicine Society. COPYRIGHT Dec 1988.
  
  We consider curries native to India and do not realize how many
  different types there are. There seems to be many misconceptions
  about curries in general. Curry is a fashion of cooking: a process
  whereby meats, fish, vegetables or even fruit are cooked in varying
  combinations of ground herbs and spices, (known as curry pastes), to
  produce a stew like dish. All dishes that are hot and spicy are not
  curries, nor are all curries fiery hot. Curry powder is an amalgam of
  some "Indian" spices best applied to the flavorings of curry dips and
  dishes where a hint of curry influence is desired. In a Thai curry,
  the proportion of solids to liquid is small. As they are always eaten
  over large mounds of steamed rice, just a few solids suffice and the
  flavour of the spicy, highly flavored gravy is extended by the bland
  rice. Curry pastes should be a marvelous, aromatic mixture of freshly
  ground herbs and spices. When preparing a curry paste, it is
  preferable to first use a mortar and pestle with the hard fibrous
  ingredients rather than including them with other ingredients in a
  food processor or blender. The pounding of the pestle crushes the
  husks and fibers releasing the oils and juices, whereas the processor
  and blender merely cut the spices. For the modern kitchen cook with
  no time to spare, a food processor in conjunction with an electric
  spice or coffee type grinder can be used. This does not however
  eliminate the requirement for a mortar and pestle. For mashing moist
  herbs like lemon grass, garlic and shallots there is no substitute.
  However, the whole dried spices (chilies, cloves), give out their
  best aroma when pulverized by a good grinder. When you are preparing
  a paste, single out the hard and dried spices and pound or grind them
  first before proceeding further. Shared by: Jim Anderson
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mediteranean-Style Burgers
 Categories: Meats
      Yield: 8 burgers
 
      2 lb Lean ground beef
     10 oz Spinach, frozen chopped-
           -thawed and drained well
      2 cl Garlic; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Grated Parmesan cheese
      1 c  Prepared spaghetti sauce
    1/2 c  Packaged Italian-seasoned
           -bread crumbs
 
    Preheat the broiler or prepare the grill so the coals are hot.
    Combine the beef, spinach, garlic, Parmesan cheese, spaghetti sauce
  and bread crumbs in a large bowl until well mixed.  Divide the
  mixture into 8 equal portions, and shape into 8 burger patties.
    Broil or grill the burgers 4 inches from heat for 6 minutes on each
  side or until cooked through.
    Makes 8 burgers at 78 cents each.  Prep:  15 minutes Broil or
  grill: 12 minutes.
    Per burger:  333 calories, 30 g protein, 19 g fat, 10 g
  carbohydrate, 510 mg sodium, 90 mg cholesterol.
    Source:  Family Circle 6/27/95
    Typos by Elizabeth Wood.
  Submitted By ELIZABETH WOOD   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Dumplings
 Categories: Breads, Oldies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      3    Eggs, beaten
    1/4 c  Milk
 
  Recipe from 1904.
  Mix all ingredients well.  POur out onto well floured board.  With
  rolling pin, roll out 1/2 batter at a time.  Cut into 1 inch squares.
  Drop one at a time into 2 quarts of boiling chicken broth in a 4
  quart Dutch oven. Cook 20 minutes.
  
  Origin: Women's Circle, for cooks on the go. Shared by: Sharon
  Stevens, Jan/94
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nine Day Chunk Pickles
 Categories: Can/preserv, Pickles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      7 lb Cukes
      3 lb Sugar (1 lb = 2-1/4 cups)
      1 qt White vinegar
      3 qt Water
      1 tb Alum
 
  %%%%%  GHERKINS  %%%%%
  
  Pick out the smallest cucumber that you can find.  Follow same recipe
  as for the 9 day chunk pickle, but leave cucumbers whole.
  
  %%%%%  NINE DAY CHUNK PICKLES  %%%%%
  
  cinnamon stick allspice (whole) celery seed green food coloring, if
  desired large plastic bucket
  
  Soak the cucumbers (whole) in brine for three days (1 cup salt to 1
  gallon of water)
  
  3 RD DAY: Drain and cover with fresh water 4 TH DAY: Drain and cover
  with fresh water 5 TH DAY: Drain, wipe dry, and cut into 1 inch
  chunks. Simmer in 1 quart vinegar and 3 quarts water with the 1 tbsp
  alum added. Let stand over night in this mixture. 6 TH DAY: Drain
  cucumbers. Mix together1-1/2 quarts vinegar and 1-1/2 quarts water.
  Bring to boil. While boiling, add cinnamon sticks, whole allspice,
  celery seed and 2-1/4 cups of white sugar. Pour over the drained
  cucumber chunks and let stand over night. 7 TH DAY: Drain off syrup,
  reserving.  Bring reserved syrup to a boil and add another 2-1/4 cups
  of sugar to mixture.  Boil until sugar is completely dissolved. Pour
  over drained cucumbers. 8 TH DAY: Let sit for 24 hours. 9 TH DAY:
  Drain syrup, reserving.  Bring reserved syrup to a boil and add the
  last 2-1/4 cups of white sugar.  Boil until sugar is dissolved. Green
  food coloring can be added at this point if desired.
  
  Pack pickles into clean, sterilized jars. Pour hot syrup over pickles,
  leaving 1 inch head space.  Seal with clean, new, hot lids.
  
  Process in boiling water bath 15 minutes for pints and 20 minutes for
  quarts.
  
  This is the absolute best pickle I have ever made, or eaten.  They are
  sweet but tangy, and the cucumbers stay nice and crisp.  Best all
  round sweet pickle recipe EVER.
  
  Origin: Sharon Stevens, from unknown source Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
  Jan/95.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: All-Purpose Barbecue Rub
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Paprika
      2 tb Ground cumin
      2 tb Mild chili powder
      2 tb Ground black pepper
      1 ts Cayenne pepper
    1/2 ts Ground cloves
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Chris Schlesinger and John Willoughby, coauthors of several
  cookbooks, including Big Flavors of the Hot Sun (Morrow, 1994).
  
  This rub, adapted from Big Flavors of the Hot Sun (Morrow, 1994), is a
  little sweet, a little hot, with just a hint of clove. It can be used
  on just about anything that you plan to barbecue, that is, to cook
  over low, indirect heat for a long period of time. For large red-meat
  roasts, such as leg of lamb or standing rib, increase the cayenne
  pepper from one teaspoon to one tablespoon and substitute one
  teaspoon cinnamon for the ground cloves.
  
  Mix all ingredients in small bowl.
  
  Source: Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Rub for Steaks and Chops
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 2 /3
 
    1/4 c  Black peppercorns
    1/4 c  White peppercorns
      2 tb Coriander seeds
      2 tb Cumin seeds
  1 1/2 ts Hot red pepper flakes
  1 1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Chris Schlesinger and John Willoughby, coauthors of several
  cookbooks, including Big Flavors of the Hot Sun (Morrow, 1994).
  
  Season beef steaks and lamb chops generously with this pungent rub.
  
  1. Toast peppercorns, coriander, and cumin over medium heat in small
  skillet, shaking pan occasionally to prevent burning, until first
  wisps of smoke appear, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cool to room
  temperature, then mix with pepper flakes and cinnamon.
  
  2. Grind to powder in spice grinder or with mortar and pestle. Source:
  Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Rub for Pork
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Fennel seeds
    1/4 c  Cumin seeds
    1/4 c  Coriander seeds
      1 tb Cinnamon
      2 tb Ground mustard
      2 tb Brown sugar
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Chris Schlesinger and John Willoughby, coauthors of several
  cookbooks, including Big Flavors of the Hot Sun (Morrow, 1994).
  
  For large roasts like a fresh ham or pork shoulder, you may want to
  add cayenne pepper or hot red red pepper flakes to the mix.
  
  1. Toast fennel, cumin, and coriander over medium heat in small
  skillet, shaking pan occasionally to prevent burning, until first
  wisps of smoke appear, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cool to room
  temperature, then mix with remaining ingredients.
  
  2. Grind to powder in spice grinder or with mortar and pestle.
  
  Source: Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Rub for Oily Fish
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Bbq/grill, Fish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  Fennel seeds
    1/4 c  Crushed coriander seeds
    1/4 c  White peppercorns
     10    Whole cloves
      6    Whole star anise
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Chris Schlesinger and John Willoughby, coauthors of several
  cookbooks, including Big Flavors of the Hot Sun (Morrow, 1994).
  
  Rub this aromatic mixture onto salmon, mackerel, or bluefish fillets.
  
  1. Toast fennel, coriander, and peppercorns over medium heat in small
  skillet, shaking occasionally to prevent burning, until first wisps of
  smoke appear, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cool to room
  temperature, then mix with remaining ingredients.
  
  2. Grind to powder in spice grinder or with mortar and pestle. Source:
  Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Rub for Chicken
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 tb Ground cardamom
      3 tb Ground ginger
      2 tb Ground turmeric
      2 tb Ground cumin
      2 tb Ground coriander
      1 tb Ground allspice
      3 tb Ground black pepper
      2 tb Cayenne pepper
      1 ts Ground cloves
      3 tb Ground fenugreek (optional)
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Chris Schlesinger and John Willoughby, coauthors of several
  cookbooks, including Big Flavors of the Hot Sun (Morrow, 1994).
  
  Mix all ingredients in small bowl.
  
  Source: Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Pork Chops with Fennel-Mustard Rub
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice, Condiments, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Inch-thick center loin or
           -center rib pork chops
           -(about 3 pounds)
      2 tb Spice Rub for Pork (see
           -Spice Rub for Pork recipe)
    3/4 ts Salt
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Cheryl Alters Jamison and Bill Jamison, authors of Smoke &
  Spice (Harvard Common Press, 1994), a guide to cooking with smoke.
  
  1. Rub each pork chop with 1 teaspoon spice rub, then sprinkle with
  salt. Let rubbed chops stand, loosely covered, in refrigerator for 2
  to 3 hours. (Can be sealed in a plastic bag and refrigerated for 2 to
  4 days.)
  
  2. Following instructions for grill or smoker setup (see "How To
  Smoke-Cook with a Kettle-Style Grill" or "How To Smoke-Cook with a
  Water Smoker," page 19), soak wood chunks and set up grill or smoker.
  
  3. Smoke pork chops until chops are firm but not hard, about 1 1/2
  hours. Serve.
  
  Source: Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Salmon with Coriander-Pepper Rub
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Center-cut salmon fillets
           (6 ounces each)
  1 1/2 tb Spice Rub for Oily Fish (see
           -Spice Rub for Oily Fish
           -recipe)
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Cheryl Alters Jamison and Bill Jamison, authors of Smoke &
  Spice (Harvard Common Press, 1994), a guide to cooking with smoke.
  
  1. Rub each salmon fillet with 3/4 teaspoon spice rub, then sprinkle
  with salt. Let rubbed salmon stand, loosely covered, at room
  temperature for 30 minutes. (Can be covered and refrigerated
  overnight if fish is fresh.)
  
  2. Following instructions for grill or smoker setup (see "How To
  Smoke-Cook with a Kettle-Style Grill" or "How To Smoke-Cook with a
  Water Smoker," page 19), soak wood chunks and set up grill or smoker.
  
  3. Smoke salmon until just opaque, about 1 1/2 hours. Serve. Source:
  Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Smoked Turkey Breast with Ginger-Cardamom Rub
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1    Turkey breast (about 5
           -pounds)
      3 tb Spice Rub for Chicken (see
           -Spice Rub for Chicken
           -recipe)
      1 ts Salt
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  Article by Cheryl Alters Jamison and Bill Jamison, authors of Smoke &
  Spice (Harvard Common Press, 1994), a guide to cooking with smoke.
  
  1. Rub turkey breast all over with the spice rub, then sprinkle with
  salt. Cover and refrigerate rubbed turkey breast for 2 to 3 hours.
  (Can be covered and refrigerated overnight.)
  
  2. Following instructions for grill or smoker setup (see "How To
  Smoke-Cook with a Kettle-Style Grill" or "How To Smoke-Cook with a
  Water Smoker," page 19), soak wood chunks and set up grill or smoker.
  
  3. Smoke turkey breast until meat thermometer registers 165, about 6
  to 7 hours. Remove from grill or smoker and let rest at least 15
  minutes. Carve and serve. (Can be cooled to room temperature, wrapped
  in plastic, and refrigerated up to 3 days.)
  
  Source: Cook's Illustrated, July/August 1995.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Petite White Loaf
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      1 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Bread flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
      2 ts Butter or oil (optional)
    3/4 ts Active dry or quick-rise
           -yeast
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  This makes a perfect little loaf, 4-3/4 inches square and almost 5
  inches high. When you've mastered this loaf, double the ingredients
  for a good Basic White Bread. It tastes great hot with butter and
  jam, and it toasts well, too, if you happen to have any left over.
  
  Measure the ingredients into the container for the bread machine in
  the order given. (Reverse the order in machines which call for adding
  the liquids last of all.) Select the basic or rapid bread cycle and
  the medium setting for the crust. Press the start button or program
  the machine for delayed start if desired, and press start.
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Milk Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads, Beverages
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
  2 1/2 c  Bread flour
    1/4 c  Nonfat dry milk
      1 tb Butter or oil
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Active dry or quick-rise
           -yeast
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  This is a basic loaf of bread that weighs about 1-1/4 pounds, and
  works out well in all of the machines I tested. To make a tasty
  buttermilk bread, use buttermilk powder in place of the nonfat dry
  milk.
  
  Measure the ingredients into the container of the bread machine in the
  order given. (Reverse the order in machines which call for adding the
  liquids last of all.)
  
  Program the machine for Basic White Bread, light crust and press
  start. Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Wheat Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Nuts/grains, Breads, Syrups
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/2 c  Whole wheat graham flour
      2 c  Bread flour
      1 tb Honey
      1 tb Melted butter or oil
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Active dry or quick-rise
           -yeast
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  Honey whole wheat bread is a favorite of ours. I tried the bread with
  a higher percentage of whole wheat flour and did not have consistent
  results among all of the machines. Graham flour has some of the wheat
  bran in it, as opposed to plain whole wheat flour.
  
  Measure the ingredients into the container of the bread machine in the
  order given. (Reverse the order in machines which call for adding the
  liquids last of all.)
  
  Program the machine for Wheat bread if your machine offers that
  choice, otherwise select Basic Bread, medium crust and press start.
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swedish Limpa Baked in the Bread Machine
 Categories: Breadmaker, Alcohol, Breads, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Dark beer, at room
           -temperature
    1/4 c  Dark corn syrup
      1 tb Butter, at room temperature
      1 c  Light rye flour
      2 c  Bread flour
           Grated rind of 1 orange
      2 ts Lightly crushed caraway seed
      1 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Active dry or quick rise
           -yeast
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  This spicy Swedish rye bread is a perfect one to bake in the bread
  machine. Set the timer so that it will be hot when your dinner is
  ready.
  
  Measure all of the ingredients in the order given in to the bread pan.
  
  Select either basic bread or wheat bread setting and medium crust.
  Program the machine, if desired, for delayed baking (follow
  directions that come with the machine). Press start.
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sun Dried Tomato and Pesto Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Salads, Herbs/spice, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      1 lg Egg
      3 c  Bread flour
    1/3 c  Prepared pesto sauce
    1/3 c  Coarsely chopped
           -reconstituted sun dried
           -tomatoes
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Coarsely ground black or
           -mixed color peppercorns
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Yeast
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  This bread has a wonderful flavor with the aroma of basil and a bite
  of pepper. It's perfect with an antipasto smorgasbord, chilled or hot
  soup, or a pasta salad. To reconstitute sun dried tomatoes simply
  soak them in warm water for 10 minutes.
  
  Measure the ingredients into the container of the bread machine in the
  order given. (Reverse the order in machines which call for adding the
  liquids last of all.)
  
  Program the machine for the basic or regular cycle and press start.
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cinnamon Raisin Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads, Herbs/spice, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      1    Egg, slightly beaten, or 1/4
           -cup additional water
           If using delay start
      3 c  Bread flour
    1/4 c  Nonfat dry milk
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Brown sugar
      2 tb Butter, at room temperature
  1 1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Active dry or quick rise
           -yeast
    3/4 c  Golden or dark raisins
    1/4 c  Walnuts (optional)
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  For those who love the sweetness of raisins in bread and the aroma of
  raisins, this is a perfect loaf to try. If you program this bread for
  breakfast, go ahead and add the raisins and walnuts on top of the
  yeast, but expect the raisins to be mashed into the bread; even so it
  is tasty!
  
  Measure the ingredients except the raisins and nuts into the bread
  pan in the order given. (Reverse the order in machines which call for
  adding the liquids last of all.)
  
  Program the machine for Sweet Bread, if your machine has the option,
  or French Bread, so that it has a longer baking cycle and press
  start. After 17 minutes, add the raisins and nuts, if used. Do not
  stop the machine to do this; it should be in the middle of a kneading
  process at this point. (See headnote if you wish to risk mashed
  raisins.)
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Multigrain and Seed Pumpernickel
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads, Nuts/grains, Syrups
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Boiling water
    1/4 c  Cracked wheat or bulgur
    1/4 c  Millet
      1 tb Lemon juice
  1 1/2 c  Stone ground whole wheat
           -flour
      1 c  Rolled outs
      1 c  Bread flour
      1 tb Gluten flour (optional)
    1/2 ts Sugar
      2 tb Each sunflower seeds and
           -sesame seeds
      2 tb Honey
      1 tb Canola oil
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Active dry or quick-rise
           -yeast
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  This is for those who love a chewy, grainy, close and even textured
  bread, even though it turns out with an irregular and "funny" top. It
  is a recipe that I adapted from Jane Brody's Good Food Gourmet.
  Gluten is optional but will improve the texture of the bread. You can
  find it at most whole foods or natural foods stores.
  
  Combine the water, wheat and millet in the bread pan. Let stand for 30
  minutes until the mixture has cooled to lukewarm. Add the remaining
  ingredients in order, ending with the dry yeast on top. For machines
  that reverse the order, combine the water, wheat and millet in a bowl
  and let cool for 30 minutes. Measure remaining ingredients in reverse
  order into the bread pan and pour the wheat mixture over the top.
  
  Program the machine to wheat bread, or basic bread. Press start.
  
  In about 1-1/2 hours, your bread machine will produce this dough all
  ready for shaping, rising and baking. The original recipe produced
  three loaves. I have successfully made this dough in the small as
  well as the larger bread machine baking pans. To produce a baked
  loaf, use a machine with a pan capacity of at least 12 cups and
  reduce the amount of yeast to 1-1/2 teaspoonful.
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Finnish Pulla Dough from the Bread Machine
 Categories: Breadmaker, Nuts/grains, Breads, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Undiluted evaporated milk,
           -at room temperature
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten, at
           -room temperature
      3 c  Bead flour
    1/4 c  (1/2 stick) butter, cut up,
           -at room temperature
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Freshly crushed cardamom
           -seed
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 pk Active dry yeast or
           -rapid-rise yeast
           For the Glaze:
      1    Egg, beaten with 2
           -tablespoons milk
      3    To 4 tablespoons sliced
           -almonds or pearl sugar
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  MAKES 1 LOAF
  
  Measure all of the ingredients, except those for the glaze, into the
  container of bread machine in the order given. (Reverse the order in
  machines which call for adding the liquids last of all.)
  
  Set the machine to the "dough" cycle. Press start.
  
  When the dough is complete, remove from the pan and turn out onto a
  lightly oiled work surface. Cut into 3 parts and roll each part into
  strands about 20 inches long.
  
  Braid the strands and place on a greased or parchment covered baking
  sheet. Cover and let rise until puffy, about 30 to 35 minutes.
  
  Preheat the oven to 375-F. Brush the braid with the egg beaten with
  the milk and sprinkle with the almonds and/or pearl sugar. Bake for
  20 to 23 minutes or until a skewer inserted into the loaf comes out
  clean and dry. Remove from the pan and cool on a wire rack.
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Julekake Dough from the Bread Machine
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads, Herbs/spice, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     18    Minutes to prevent its being
           -mashed by the dough blade.
      1 c  Milk, scalded
      5 tb Butter, cut up
      1 lg Egg, lightly beaten
      3 c  Bread flour
    1/4 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Freshly ground cardamom
      1 pk Or 1 tablespoon active dry
           -or rapid-rise yeast
    1/2 c  Candied red and green
           -cherries
    1/4 c  Golden or dark raisins
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  If you traditionally make Julekake for special occasions, your bread
  machine can make the dough with a minimum of mess and counterspace
  involved. Fruit is added after the machine has mixed the dough for 15
  to
  
  Pour the milk into the bread pan; add butter and stir until melted.
  Add the egg. Add the flour, sugar, salt, cardamom and yeast.
  
  Set the machine to the "dough" cycle and press start. After 15 to 18
  minutes of mixing, add the cherries and raisins.
  
  In about 1-1/2 hours the machine will indicate the dough is ready.
  
  Remove dough from the machine. Shape into a round ball. Place on a
  lightly greased cookie sheet. Cover and let rise in a warm place
  until almost doubled in size, 30 to 45 minutes.
  
  Preheat oven to 350-F. Uncover dough and bake 30 to 35 minutes until
  golden brown and a wooden skewer inserted into the center of the loaf
  comes out clean and dry. Cool loaf on a rack. Frost, if desired.
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swedish Tea Ring
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads, Fruit, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Warm milk
      1    Egg, slightly beaten
      3 c  Bread flour
    1/3 c  Sugar
      4 tb Butter, cut up
      1 ts Salt
      1 pk Active dry or rapid-rise
           -yeast
           FILLING:
      3    To 4 tablespoons soft butter
    1/2 c  Chopped candied cherries
    1/2 c  Golden or dark raisins
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts or pecans
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING
  
  "Bread Machines" article by Beatrice Ojakangas; author of Great
  Holiday Baking Book and the forthcoming Light Muffins (Clarkson N.
  Potter).
  
  I like to make this sweet coffeebread for coffee parties. With the
  bread machine mixing and kneading the dough for me, there is a lot
  less mess in the kitchen, and the dough comes out at the perfect
  temperature for quick rising.
  
  DOUGH:
  
  Measure the dough ingredients into the container of the bread machine
  in the order given. (Reverse the order in machines which call for
  adding the liquids last of all).
  
  Set the machine to the "dough" cycle and press start.
  
  About 1-1/2 hours later when dough is ready, coat a work surface
  lightly with nonstick cooking spray.
  
  Turn dough out onto the surface and pat and roll out to about 16 x 20
  inches. Spread with the butter and sprinkle with the cherries,
  raisins and nuts. Mix the sugar and cinnamon and sprinkle over.
  
  Roll the dough up to enclose the filling, starting from the 20-inch
  side. Seal the roll. Place on a lightly greased baking pan and pinch
  the ends together to make a wreath shape. With a pair of scissors
  make cuts almost all the way through the roll from the outside toward
  the center every 1/2 inch. Pull the cut dough circles outward and lay
  them down with a cut side up.
  
  Let rise in a warm place for about 45 minutes until puffy. Preheat
  the oven to 375-F. Bake the tea ring for 20 to 25 minutes until
  golden. Remove from the oven and cool on a rack. Frost with a
  powdered sugar and milk icing, if desired. Serve warm.
  
  Source: Good Taste (July 1995).
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kentucky Bourbon Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 lb (3 sticks) butter
      2 c  White sugar
  2 1/4 c  Light brown sugar, firmly
           -packed
      6    Eggs
  5 1/2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 ts Mace
      2 c  Bourbon whiskey (alcohol
           -cooks out when
           -baked--flavor remains.)
  3 1/2 c  (1 lb) pecan meats
 
  Cream butter until soft in your largest mixing bowl.  Combine white
  and brown sugar thoroughly. Gradually work half the sugar mixture
  into  butter, keeping it as smooth as possible. In a separate bowl
  beat eggs  until light and fluffy.  Then gradually beat in remaining
  sugar until  you have a smooth, creamy mixture. Stir into butter
  mixture thoroughly. Sift flour, salt and mace together. Add flour
  combination and the whiskey to the batter--alternating them and
  beginning and ending with  the flour.  Break pecans into pieces and
  stir then into the batter.  Pour into a well-greased 10 inch tube pan
  (batter should almost fill the  pan) and bake in a preheated 300 F.
  oven for 1 1/2 to 1 3/4 hours OR until the cake shrinks slightly from
  pan. Allow cake to cool in the pan for about 15 minutes, then turn it
  out onto a cake rack, and cool completely. Bourbon cake improves with
  age. It should be well-wrapped in foil and stored in the
  refrigerator. DO NOT FREEZE.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Minnesota Wild Rice Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles, Rice, Game
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Wild rice
    1/4 c  Butter
      3 tb Chopped onion
      3 tb Chopped green pepper
    1/2 c  Slivered blanched almonds
      3 c  Hot chicken broth
 
  Wash rice and drain well.  Melt butter in skillet, add onion, green
  pepper, rice and almonds.  Saute over low heat, stirring constantly,
  until rice begins to turn light yellow.  Turn into a casserole; add
  hot chicken broth. Cover, and bake in preheated slow oven (325F) for
  1-1/2 hours or until rice is tender and all liquid is absorbed.
  Makes 4
  
  Origin: Women's Day Encyclopedia of Cookery, Vol 1, Minnesota Section.
  Shared by: Sharon Stevens, Feb/94
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice Casserole
 Categories: Rice, Game, Casseroles, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Washed wild rice
      2 c  Boiling water
    1/2 c  Long grain rice
      1 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
    1/2 c  Finely chopped celery
      1 c  Sliced mushrooms
    1/3 c  Sliced almonds
      1 c  Chopped water chestnuts
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
 
  In a 2 quart saucepan, bring 2 cups of water to a boil.  Stir wild
  rice into boiling water, cooking on low for 20 minutes.  Return to
  boiling state, stir in long grain rice.  Simmer for 20 minutes.  In a
  frying pan, melt butter and saute onion, celery, mushrooms, almonds
  and water chestnuts, until slightly browned, about 5 minutes.  In a 2
  quart greased casserole, combine the vegetables, rice and soy sauce.
  Bake, uncovered, at 350 F for 20 minutes.  Serves 6.
  
  Origin:  Homestyles, Canadian Classics Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutty Wild Rice Salad
 Categories: Salads, Rice, Game, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Wild rice
    1/3 c  Minced red bell pepper
      2 tb Minced scallions
    1/4 c  Minced parsley
    3/4 c  Seedless grapes, cut in half
    3/4 c  Pecans, toasted
 
  Makes 4-1/2 cups
  
  Bring 4 cups of wter and 1 tsp salt to a boil.  Add rice and lower
  heat. cover and simmer for 50 minutes or until rice is tender.  Drain
  well and let cool.  In medium sized bowl, put cooked rice and
  remaining ingredients. Add dressing and mix gently.  Use Orange
  Drambuie dressing.
  
  Origin: Journal American Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice and Mushrooms
 Categories: Canadian, Rice, Game, Vegetables, Dips/spread
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Wild rice
  1 1/3 c  Water -- cold
      1 ts Chicken bouillon
      2    Bacon slices
    1/2 c  Mushrooms -- sliced
      2 tb Green onion
 
  Thyme -- dried Parsley -- snipped
  
  Pour cold water over rice in strainer and lift rice with fingers (to
  remove any impurities). Combine rice and 1 1/3 cups water and
  bouillon. Bring to a boil, reduce heat. Cover and simmer 60 minutes.
  
  * Meanwhile cook  bacon partially and add mushrooms, green onion and
  thyme. Cook till bacon is crisp and mushrooms soft. Drain off fat.
  Add to cooked rice. Season  with pepper. Sprinkle with chopped
  parsley.
  
  *Time consuming and expensive. Be prepared to give wild rice as much
  cooking time as possible, occasionally it will require a bit more
  time as it absorbs water more slowly than regular rice.
  
  Origin: Canadian Government Publication Shared by: Marjorie Scofield,
  Oct/94.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Company Wild Rice and Chestnut Stuffing.
 Categories: Holiday, Dress/stuff, Rice, Nuts/grains, Game
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Chestnuts, cut an "X" on the
           -flat side
  1 1/2 qt Water
      2 tb Buttor or vegetable oil
      2    Shallots, peeled, ends
           -removed, chopped
    1/2 c  Chopped celry
      3 ts Fresh thyme , washed, dried
           -and chopped or....
      1 ts Dried
      1 c  Cooked wihte rice
      1 c  Cooked wild rice
      1    Granny Smith Apple, peeled,
           -cored and diced
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  "Although it may seem corny" says Leslie Arwin, "Our holiday season
  seems to revolve around chestnuts."  Her father would bring in an
  armload of snow-coated logs and build a fire.  As her mother browned
  onions and celery for her savory wild-rice stuffing in the kitchen,
  her father would slith the chestnuts and shake them over the embers
  in a wire bassket until they were cooked.  Too impatient to let them
  cool, Arwin and her sister burned their fingers shelling the steaming
  nuts. "We'd eat half right away and save the other half for my
  mother's stuffing" recalls Arwin, an Ann Arbor family practice
  physician, artist and the mother of two teenagers. Both of her
  parents, who owned Detroit's Arwin Gallery on Washington Boulevard,
  died in 1981.  Arwin inherited the wire basket. "Now my fireplace is
  a gas log" she says "But it still works well for roasting chestnuts.
  
  Salt and Pepper to taste Optional Dash of cognac or sherry.
  
  In a large saucepan of small soup pot, place chestnuts and add water.
  Over high heat, bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low and simmer for 20
  to 25 minutes.  Remove from heat and drain into a colander.  Set
  aside until cool enough to touch.
  
  Meanwhile, in a large skillet heat butter or oil, Saute shallots and
  celery. Sprinkle with Thyme.
  
  After about five minutes remove from heat.  Add white rice, wild rice,
  diced apple, parsley, salt and pepper.  Set aside.
  
  When chestnuts are cool enough to touch, remove shell and skin and
  chop coarsely.  Add to stuffing.  Toss until evenly combined.  Place
  in a 1 1/2 to 2 quart casserole.  At serving time, cover and
  microwave on high, about five minutes or until heated through.  Pass
  stuffing with cognac or sherry to be sprinkled on if desired.
  From Leslie Arwin, Ann Arbor, Mi.  Via WXYZ-TV show COMPANY and the
  11/16/1994 edition of the Detroit Free Press. Tested in their kitchen.
  
  Nutrition detalls per serving......
  
  Calories    249      Percent of calories from fat    24%  (lo-fat)
  
  Fat: 7 gm    Protein: 3 gm     Carbohydrate: 44 gm Cholesterol: ZERO
  Sodium: 202 mg
  
  Diabetic exchanges:  1/4 Vegetable, 2 1/2 Bread, 1/4 Fruit and 1/4
  fat.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice And Cabbage Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Rice, Vegetables, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Vegetable stock
      2 c  Wild rice
      2 ts Caraway seeds
      4 ts Fennel seeds
      2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2    Head cabbage, chopped
      2 ts Salt
 
  1.  Bring 12 cups of the stock to boil in a saucepan over medium-high
  heat. Add the wild rice, caraway seeds, fennel seeds, and pepper. Mix
  well and bring back to a boil. Reduce heat to low and cook, covered
  until the rice kernels burst and are tender, about 45 minutes. 2.
  Combine the remaining 2 cups of stock, cabbage, and salt in a large
  saucepan. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to
  low and simmer, covered, for 10 minutes. Add the cooked rice and mix
  well.
  
  Makes 4 cups From the book: "Cook It Light" by Jeanne Jones
  
  AR/95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Pasta Pie
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2    Onion, finely chopped
      1    (28-ounce) can tomatoes with
           -juice, coarsely chopped
      1    (1-1/4 oz) package taco mix
           -seasoning
      1    (15-16-ounce) can black
           -beans, rinsed and drained
      4 c  Cooked ziti or penne pasta
           -(about 1 cup dried pasta)
      2 ts Olive oil
      1 c  Part-skim ricotta
      2    (8-ounce) chicken boneless,
           -skinless breast halves, cut
           -in 1/2-inch
           Pieces
      1 c  Shredded Cheddar or
           -Mexi-blend cheese
 
  From Sun-Sentinel Food Section, Thursday, July 20, 1995 "Meals in
  Minutes"
  
  Heat oven to 425 degrees.  Grease a 7-by-11-inch baking dish.
  
  In a medium nonreactive bowl, mix onions, tomatoes, taco mix and black
  beans.  Toss pasta with olive oil.
  
  Spread 1 cup tomato mixture on bottom of baking dish.  Add cooked
  pasta. Dot with ricotta and then spread with a knife.  Stir chicken
  pieces into remaining tomato mixture and spoon over ricotta.
  Sprinkle with shredded cheese.  Bake 25 to 30 minutes.  Serve
  immediately. Makes 6 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kimberly's Cafe's Peach Delight Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    (16 oz) can sliced peaches
           -in light syrup
           Water
      1    (1-pound,2-1/4 oz) package
           -Betty Crocker Super Moist
           -Yellow Cake Mix
           (pudding in the mix)
    1/2    (8-ounce) container frozen
           -non-dairy whipped topping,
           -thawed
      1    (6-ounce) container Yoplait
           -Original Harvest Peach
           -yogurt
 
  Recipe from Kimberly's Cafe, Wilton Manors, FL
  
  Heat oven to 350 degrees.  Generously grease and flour 2 (9-inch)
  round (1-1/2 inch deep) cake pans.
  
  Drain peaches, reserving the syrup.  Add enough water to the syrup to
  measure 1-1/4 cups liquid.
  
  Prepare the cake mix according to package directions, substituting the
  peach syrup mixture for the water.
  
  Divide the batter as evenly as possible between the two prepared
  pans. Bake for 24 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in center
  comes out clean. Place pans on wire racks and cool cakes in pans for
  10 minutes. Invert the pans onto the wire racks and cool cake layers
  completely.
  
  Meanwhile, cut the peach slices crosswise into 3/8-inch pieces.  Dry
  well on paper towels.  Mix the whipped topping thoroughly with the
  yogurt and fold in the peaches.
  
  Place one cake layer, top side down, on a serving plate.  Cover with
  about half the whipped topping mixture.  Top with the other cake
  layer, top side up, and spoon remaining topping mixture over the
  cake. Refrigerate at least 2 hours or until completely chilled.
  Makes 12
  
  From: Sun-Sentinel Food Section, Thursday, July 20, 1995  "You Asked
  For It".
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nut Masala
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Indian, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1 ts Cardamon seeds
      1 tb Poppy seeds
      1 ts Black peppercorns
      2    Garlic cloves, crushed
      1    Inch piece fresh gingerroot,
           -grated
      2 oz Blanched almonds or unsalted
           -cashew nuts, chopped
    1/4 c  Boiling water
 
  Heat oil in a heavy skillet, add spices and cook over medium heat 5
  to 10 minutes, until golden brown, stirring constantly. Add garlic
  and gingerroot and cook 2 minutes more, then cool.
  
  Put spice mixture in a blender or food processor fitted with the metal
  blade. Add almonds or cashew nuts and water; grind to a smooth paste.
  Cover tightly and keep in a cool place for up to 1 month.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [The Book of Curries & Indian Foods by
  Linda Fraser]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Moghul Masala
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Indian, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Inch cinnamon sticks,
           -crushed
      1 tb Whole cloves
      1 tb Black peppercorns
      1 ts Grated nutmeg
 
  Seeds from 2-oz. (1/4 cup) green cardamom pods
  
  Grind spices to a fine powder in a coffee grinder or with a pestle and
  mortar. Store in a small, airtight container for up to 2 months.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [The Book of Curries & Indian Foods by
  Linda Fraser]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Garam Marsala
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Indian, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Plus 1 tsp cardamom seeds
      2    Inch cinnamon sticks,
           -crushed
      2 ts Whole cloves
      1 tb Plus 1 tsp black peppercorns
      3 tb Cumin seeds
      3 tb Coriander seeds
 
  Put all spices in a heavy skillet and dry roast over medium heat 5 to
  10 minutes, until browned, stirring constantly. Cool completely, then
  grind to a fine powder in a coffee grinder or with a pestle and
  mortar. Store in an airtight container up to 2 months.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [The Book of Curries & Indian Foods by
  Linda Fraser]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tandoori Masala
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Indian, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Cumin seeds
      1 tb Coriander seeds
      1 tb Red (cayenne) pepper
           Few drops of red food
           -coloring
 
  Grind cumin and coriander seeds to a fine powder in a coffee grinder
  or with a pestle and mortar. Stir in cayenne and food coloring and
  mix well. Store in a small airtight jar up to 2 months.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [The Book of Curries & Indian Foods by
  Linda Fraser]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Spice Mix
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Indian, Curries
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Cumin seeds
      8    Dried red chilies
      1 tb Black peppercorns
      1 tb Cardamom seeds
      1    Inch cinnamon sticks,
           -crushed
      1 tb Plus 1 tsp black mustard
           -seeds
      1 tb Fenugreek seeds
 
  Put all spices in a heavy skillet and dry roast over medium heat 5 to
  10 minutes, until browned, stirring constantly. Cool completely, then
  grind to a fine powder in a coffee grinder or with a pestle and
  mortar. Store in an airtight container up to 2 months.
  
  From: Steve Herrick Source: [The Book of Curries & Indian Foods by
  Linda Fraser]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Indian Nan Bread
 Categories: Breads, Indian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 ts Yeast
      1 tb Sugar
      4 oz Warm milk
      1 lb Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 tb Plain yogurt
      1 oz Melted butter
 
  Stir the yeast and sugar into the milk and leave covered in a warm
  place for 10-15 minutes. Stir the flour, salt and baking powder
  together, leaving a well in the centre. Add the yogurt and butter and
  mix. Gradually add in the yeast mixture, adding more milk if
  necessary. Cover and set aside for 4-5 hrs. Knead well for 2 minutes.
  Then, divide the dough into approx. 20 balls, and roll each out on a
  floured surface. Brush each with melted butter. Place on baking
  sheets and bake at 375 degrees for 3-4 minutes on each side, or until
  brown specks appear.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chile Dusted Duck with South of the Border Stuffing
 Categories: Poultry, Hot/spicy, Chilies
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5    Jalapeno chiles, stems and
           -seeds removed, chopped
      1 c  Diced onion
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
      2 c  Peeled and chopped Granny
           -Smith apples
      2 c  1/2-inch bread cubes
    1/2 c  Pinon nuts
    1/3 c  Chopped fresh cilantro
 
  posted by Perry Lowell, Mar. '93
  
  Roast duck with stuffing is as easy to prepare as a turkey or a
  chicken, though it is doubtful that the Conquistadors at the first
  Thanksgiving took the time to stuff the ducks before roasting.  In
  these days of lean and no fat meals, many people refuse to consider
  duck becuase it is perceived as being extremely fatty.  Several
  simple steps, however, can greatly reduce the fat content.  First, if
  the skin is pricked before cooking, much of the fat will drain off.
  Secondly, removing the skin before serving will lower the fat content
  even further.
  
  (1) 4-1/2 to 5 pound duck, remove giblets and neck from inside wash
  and pat dry ground red chile powder
  
  Sprinkle the inside cavity of the duck with salt.
  
  Saute the chiles and onion in the margarine until soft.
  
  Combine the mixture with the apples, bread cubes, nuts, and cilantro,
  and toss gently to mix. Fill the neck and body cavities loosely with
  stuffing. Skewer the neck shut and cover the opening of the body
  cavity with aluminum foil and tie the legs together. To be safe, do
  not stuff until you are ready to cook.
  
  Place the duck on a rack in a shallow roasting pan.  With sharp fork,
  prick the skin at 1-inch intervals, being careful not to prick the
  meat or it will dry out. This is to allow the duck to continuously
  self-baste so you can put it in the oven and forget it.
  
  Dust the duck with the chile powder.  Bake in slow oven, 325 degrees
  F., about 3 hours or to an internal temperature of 160 degrees F.
  
  Heat Scale:  Mild Info: from December 1992 "Chile Pepper Spicy World
  Cuisine" magazine
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duck a l'Orange
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------*INGREDIENTS*----------------------------
      2    Ducks
      6    Bacon slices
      1 cn Frozen orange juice - (6
           -oz.) thawed, undiluted
      1    Garlic clove - minced
    3/4 ts Mustard
    1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Water
 
  Wipe ducks dry inside and out, season with salt and pepper, and place
  in roasting pan close together, breast sides up.  Cover with strips
  of bacon. Roast at 400 degrees for 25 minutes or until done to taste.
  Meanwhile, heat to boiling in small saucepan the orange juice,
  garlic, mustard, ginger and salt.  Remove from heat and during the
  last 10 minutes of roasting, remove bacon from birds and brush them
  with the mixture. Mix cornstarch with 1/4 cup of the water and add to
  remaining orange sauce. Pour in remaining water and stir over low
  heat until sauce thickens. Place ducks on heated platter, slice and
  serve with the orange sauce. November, 1990 - Louisiana
  Conservationist Calendar
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Smoked Duck
 Categories: Asian, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------****** INGREDIENTS ******----------------------
      1    (4- to 5-pound) frozen
           -duckling, thawed
    1/4 c  Kikkoman Lite Soy Sauce
      1 ts Liquid smoke seasoning
    1/2 ts Fennel seed, well crushed
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/8 ts Ground cloves
 
  Remove and discard giblets and neck from duckling cavity.  Wash
  duckling; drain and gently pat dry with paper towels.
  
  Combine lite soy sauce, liquid smoke, fennel, pepper and cloves.
  Brush body cavity with sauce mixture.
  
  Place duckling, breast-side up, on rack in roasting pan.  Roast at
  425 F 1 hour.  REDUCE OVEN TEMPERATURE TO 350 F.  Continue roasting
  45 minutes, or until tender.  Brush skin of duckling several times
  with sauce mixture during last 30 minutes of cooking time.
  
  Let stand 15 minutes before carving.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
  
  [From Kikkoman Oriental Cooking & More, Jan. 1992]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duck in Avocado
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables, Main dish, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3    Ripe, but firm, avocados
      1 qt Water
           Juice of 1 lemon
 
  The breast and thigh meat from a whole roasted duckling 6 medium-sized
  oranges, peeled and segmented Lettuce leaves 1/4 cup chopped pecans or
  toasted sliced almonds 6 tbsp. mayonnaise 2 tbsp. frozen undiluted
  orange juice, defrosted Parsley sprigs Orange wedges (optional)
  
  1.  Peel the avocados, cut them in half, and immediately dip them in
  the water with the lemon juice added to keep them from discoloring.
  
  2.  Be sure the duck meat is skinless and boneless.  Cut it into
  bite-sized pieces.
  
  3.  Mix the duck meat with the orange segments.  Divide into six
  portions. Fill the avocado halves, which have been placed on a
  platter lined with crisp lettuce leaves, with the portions of meat
  and oranges.
  
  4.  Mix the concentrated juice with the mayonnaise and spoon this
  over each stuffed avocado.  Top each with the nuts.  Decorate with
  parsley sprigs and orange wedges.
  
  CHEF'S SECRET:  Always peel the avocado first and then cut it in
  half. This is important, because if avocados are ripe enough to be
  eaten, the halves would be mashed during the peeling process.
  
  If you leave the pits in after halving the avocados and dipping them
  in the lemon water, you can wrap the avocados in plastic wrap and
  keep them all day in the refrigerator.  They won't discolor.
  
  You can give this dish an oriental flavor by mixing 1 tbsp. soy sauce
  into the 6 tbsp. mayonnaise, replacing the orange with canned
  tangerine segments, and grinding some roasted sesame seeds over the
  dish. (The sesame seeds are available in very bandy little plastic
  throw-away grinders in grocery stores carrying oriental foods.)
  
  When using the canned tangerine segments, you can greatly improve the
  taste by pouring off the canned syrup, rinsing the segments quickly
  in cold water, then transferring them to a plastic container.
  Squeeze the juice of 1 lemon over them and, if you like, add 1 or 2
  tbsp. brandy and enough water to cover.  Chill in the refrigerator
  overnight.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
  
  From "The Chef's Secret Cookbook", Louis Szathmary, Quadrangle Books,
  Chicago.  1972.
  
  Posted by Stephen Ceideberg; March 14 1993.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Joan Benoit Samuelson's Unbeatable Pizza
 Categories: Pizza, Pizza
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    BOBOLI crust (12")
      1    Tomato,cut into eighths
      1 c  Broccoli flowerets
    1/2 c  Red onion rings
           Dried basil leaves
      2 c  KRAFT Mozzarella Cheese
 
  1. Heat oven to 350'F.~ 2. Place crust on cookie sheet.~ 3. Top with
  vegetables.~ 4. Bake 10-15 minutes or until cheese is melted and
  topping is thoroughly heated.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rock Springs Sweet Onion Pizza
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Vegetables, Pizza
      Yield: 6 servings
 
   1991    Blue Ribbon Winner
      1 c  Yellow cornmeal
  1 1/3 c  Cold water, divided into two
           -2/3 cups of water
    1/4 c  Plus 2 tablespoons grated
           -Parmesan cheese
      2 tb Olive oil
      3 md Size sweet onions, thinly
           -sliced
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      1 sm Green pepper, sliced 1/4
           -inch wide
      1 tb Each dried basil and oregano
    1/4 ts Black pepper
    2/3 c  Cooked and drained dark red
           -kidney beans
      2 c  Shredded mozzarella cheese
           -(8 ounces)
      1 c  Pizza sauce
 
  From Cathy Dorsey, New River AZ
  
  Method: 1. Heat oven to 375 2. In small bowl mix cornmeal with 2/3
  cup cold water. in a small saucepan bring the remaining 2/3 cup of
  water to a boil. Gradually add the cornmeal mixture to the boiling
  water. Lower heat and whisk constantly with a fork until thick.
  Remove from heat and stir in 2 tablespoons of Parmesan cheese. 3.
  When cool enough to handle, wet hands and pat cornmeal mixture evenly
  into a 12 inch pizza pan or lightly greased baking sheet. 4. Bake
  cornmeal crust, uncovered for 15 minutes or until it is just golden.
  5. Meanwhile, in a skillet over medium-low heat, heat olive oil; add
  onion, garlic and green peppers. Cook uncovered for three minutes.
  Add basil, oregano, and black pepper.  Stir, reduce heat to low, and
  cook, covered, for five minutes.  Stir in the beans and set aside. 6.
  Remove the crust from the oven, sprinkle with half of the mozzarella
  cheese and half of the remaining Parmesan cheese.  Spoon the bean
  mixture on top. Pour the pizza sauce evenly over it and scatter the
  remaining cheese on top. 7. Bake uncovered for 10-15 minutes or until
  cheese is melted. 8. Cut into wedges and serve.
  
  Source: Rock Springs Sweet Onion Festival Cook Book 1992
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOUTHWEST PIZZA
 Categories: Pizza, Main dish, Cheese/eggs, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Cornmeal
      1    - 10 oz can Pillsbury all
           -ready pizza crust
    1/2 c  Tomato sauce
    1/2 ts Chili powder
    1/2 c  EACH:diced green and red
           -bell pepper
      1    4 oz can green
           -chilies,drained
      1    8 oz pkg. shredded Colby and
           -Monterey Jack cheese
    1/2 c  Chopped cilantro
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees.Sprinkle cornmeal onto bottom of a
  greased 10 x 15" jelly roll pan.Spread dough into pan.Bake  5
  minutes.Remove from oven.Spread with combined tomato sauce and chili
  powder;top with bell peppers,chilies and cheese tossed with
  cilantro.Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until crust is golden brown. Makes
  6 to 8 servings.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salad Bar Pizza
 Categories: Pizza, Vegetables, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      2    Prepared 9-inch deep-dish
           -whole-wheat crusts
      1 lb Cut-up fresh vegetables
           -(broccoli buds,
           Cauliflower florets, red and
           -yellow bell pepper
           Rings, sliced red onion,
           -julienne carrots)
      2 ts Olive oil
    1/4 c  Water
      3 lg Cloves garlic, minced
      2 c  Plain tomato sauce
           Salt and coarse-ground black
           -pepper
      1 tb Fresh basil leaves (or 1
           -teaspoon dried)
      1 tb Fresh oregano leaves (or 1
           -teaspoon dried)
      2 c  Shredded skim-milk
           -mozzarella cheese
      4 tb Grated Parmesan cheese
 
  Preaheat oven to 425F.  Have crusts ready to fill.  Combine the
  vegetables with the oil, water, and garlic in a nonstick skillet over
  medium-low heat. Cook, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until water
  evaporates, about 5 minutes.  Spoon tomato sauce over crusts.
  Arrange vegetables evenly over sauce.  Season to taste with salt and
  pepper and sprinkle with herbs. Top with the cheeses.  Bake on bottom
  shelf of oven for 20 to 25 minutes.
  
  Makes two 9-inch deep-dish pizzas.
  
  Nutrients (per quarter of a pizza): Calories 277 Protein 14.2 grams
  Fat 6.5 grams      Cholesterol 15.0 mg Fiber 4.1 grams Sodium 1130 mg
  
  [ MODERN MATURITY: Feb/March 1990 ]
  
  Posted By: Fred Peters
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Tomato, Basil, and Cheese Pizza
 Categories: Pizza, Cheese/eggs, Tomatoes
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      1    (12-inch) Basic Pizza Crust
           -(see previous post for
           -recipe)
      2 ts Olive oil
    1/2 c  Grated fresh Parmesan
           -cheese, divided
      3 lg Ripe unpeeled tomatoes, cut
           -into 1/4-inch slices (about
           -1 1/2 pounds)
      6    Cloves garlic, thinly sliced
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Chopped fresh basil
 
  Fresh Tomato, Basil, and Cheese Pizza
  
  Brush crust with olive oil.  Sprinkle with 1/4 cup cheese, leaving a
  1/2 inch border.  Arrange tomatoes over cheese, over-lapping.  Top
  with garlic, remaining 1/4 cup cheese, salt, and pepper.  Bake at 500
  deg.F for 12 minutes on bottom rack of oven.  Remove pizza to a
  cutting board; to with basil.  Let stand 5 minutes.  Yield: 6
  servings (about 189 calories per wedge).
  
  Protein 7.2, Fat 4.6, Carbohydrate 30.1, Cholesterol 5.3, Iron 2.1,
  Sodium 280, Calcium 111
  
  From: Cooking Light Magazine, Sept./Oct. 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Primavera
 Categories: Pizza, Cheese/eggs, Vegetables
      Yield: 5 servings
 
      2 c  Fresh broccoli flowerets
      1 c  (1 1/2-inch) julienne-cut
           -carrot
    1/2 c  Fresh snow peas, halved
           -crosswise
    1/2 c  (1 1/2-inch) julienne-cut
           -zucchini
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 c  Evaporated skimmed milk
    1/2 c  (2 ounces grated fresh
           -Parmesan cheese, divided
    1/4 c  Chablis or other dry white
           -wine
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/3 c  Sliced green onions
      2 tb Chopped fresh basil
    1/2 c  (2 ounces) shredded
           -provolone cheese
      1    (12-inch) Basic Pizza Crust
           -(see previous post)
 
  Pizza Primavera
  
  From Cooking Light Magazine Sept. Oct. 1991
  
  Cook broccoli and carrot in boiling water 2 minutes.  Add snow peas
  and zucchini; cook 1 minute. Drain and rinse under cold running
  water; set aside.
  
  Combine cornstarch and milk in a large saucepan; stir well.  Bring to
  a boil, and cook 2 minutes or until thickened, stirring constantly.
  Remove from heat; stir in 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese and next 4
  ingredients. Add broccoli mixture, onions and basil, tossing gently;
  set aside.
  
  Sprinkle provolone cheese over prepared crust, leaving a 1/2-inch
  border. Spoon vegetable mixture on top of cheese.  Sprinkle with
  remaining 1/4 cup Parmesan cheese.  Bake at 500 deg.F for 12 minutes
  on bottom rack of oven.
  
  Remove pizza to a cutting board; let stand 5 minutes.  Yield: 6
  servings (about 269 calories per wedge).
  
  Protein 14.4, Fat 6.5, Carbohydrate 36.9, Cholesterol 16, Iron 2.5,
  Sodium 472, Calcium 360
  
  Take care, Kyosho
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC PIZZA DOUGH - Country Living
 Categories: Breads, Pizza
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  To 2 1/2 C unsifted all
           -purpose flour
      1 pk Rapid-rising dry yeast
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Very warm water (120' to
    130    F)
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Honey
 
  Yield: 1 pizza
  
  1. In large bowl, combine 2 C flour, the yeast, and salt. In 1-C
  measuring cup, combine water, oil, and honey; stir into flour mixture
  until soft dough forms.
  
  2. Turn dough out onto floured surface. Knead dough, adding some of
  remaining flour, if necessary, until dough is very elastic-10 to 15
  minutes (dough should be soft, do not add too much flour).
  
  3. Wash, dry, and lightly oil mixing bowl. Place dough in oiled bowl,
  turning to bring oiled side up. Cover with clean cloth; let dough
  rise in warm place, away from drafts, until double in size-30 to 45
  minutes. Shape and bake following specific pizza recipes.
  
  DOUGH VARIATIONS Whole Wheat: Prepare dough as above but reduce
  all-purpose flour to 1 C and add 1 C whole-wheat flour.
  
  Cornmeal: Prepare dough as above but reduce all-purpose flour to 1
  1/2 C and add 1/2 C  cornmeal.
  
  Parmesan: Prepare dough as above but add 1/4 C  grated Parmesan
  cheese. Semolina: Prepare dough as above but reduce flour to 1 1/2 C
  and add 1/2 C semolina flour to the dough.
  
  Using Active Dry Yeast: Replace 1 pk rapid-rising dry yeast with 1 pk
  active dry yeast. In large bowl, sprinkle yeast over warm water (11O'
  to 115'F) and let sit 5 minutes. Add remaining ingredients, knead,
  and set aside as above. Rising time should change from 30 minutes to
  50 to 60 minutes or until double in size.
  
  Overnight: Prepare dough as above, but do not allow to rise. Loosely
  wrap and refrigerate dough immediately. Next day, unwrap dough and
  cover with clean cloth. Let warm to room temperature and shape
  following recipe directions. This method is best using active dry
  yeast rather than the rapid-rising variety.
  
  MAKES ONE 14-INCH OR TWO 9-INCH ROUND PIZZAS Country Living/October/90
  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: THREE PEPPER PIZZA
 Categories: Pizza, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  EACH of red,yellow and green
           -peppers,cut into 1/2"
           -pieces
      2 tb Garlic olive oil,plus more
           -as needed
      8    Mushrooms,sliced
           Pizza dough with oregano
           Oil and cornmeal for pan
      1 c  Mozzarella cheese,grated
    3/4 c  Pizza sauce with oregano
    1/3 c  Black olives,sliced
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese,freshly
           -grated
 
  In a medium saucepan over low heat,slowly cook peppers in the oil
  until half done,about 10 minutes.Drain peppers on paper towels and
  reserve the oil. In a bowl,lightly toss the sliced mushrooms with 1
  tsp. of oil until coated.Set aside. Preheat oven to 425 degrees.Roll
  out the prepared pizza dough on a floured surface.Lightly grease the
  pizza pan with a little oil and sprinkle with cornmeal.Place the
  dough in the pizza pan and trim edges.Bake for 10 minutes.Remove from
  oven and lightly brush the crust with a little more oil.(This helps
  stop topping from leaking and causing a soggy crust.)Sprinkle with
  half of the mozzarella and all the sauce.Top with peppers,mushrooms
  and olives.Sprinkle with remaining mozzarella and top with freshly
  grated Parmesan.Bake on oven's bottom rack for 20 minutes.
  
  Variation: This is the most "Italian" of the pizzas I've done so you
  might want to add 1 or 2 Italian sausages (this flavored with
  fennel), which have been sauteed,drained on paper towels and
  crumbled(you should have 1/2 cup to 1 cup).Strew over pizza along
  with the peppers.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Onion Herb Pizza
 Categories: Pizza, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------*DOUGH*-------------------------------
      1 pk Dry yeast
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Sugar
  3 1/2 c  Flour
      3 tb Olive oil

MMMMM-------------------------*FILLING*------------------------------
      4 ea Large onions, sliced
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 c  Olive oil
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
      2 ts Rosemary
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese
 
  *DOUGH*
  
  Proof yeast, warm water and sugar. Put 1 3/4 cup of flour in
  processor, start, add 3 tbls olive oil, add yeast mixture, add
  remaining 1 3/4 cup flour.  Continue processing to make a soft
  pliable dough. Spread on oiled pan, prick well.
  
  Saute onions in olive oil until brown but not burned.  Add garlic. Add
  vinegar, rosemary and parmesan cheese. Spread mixture over dough.
  
  Bake at 350 F 15 minutes or until crust is browned.
  
  From the recipe files of Sheila Exner - October 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CARROT CAKE
 Categories: Vegetables, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  All purpose flour
      2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Dark brown sugar
      1 c  White sugar
  1 1/2 c  Salted butter (softened)
      3 lg Eggs
      2 ts Vanilla
      1 lb Carrots (grated)
    1/2 c  Crushed pineapple (drained)
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Chopped walnuts
 
  You need:
  
  Heres what you do:
  
  1. Combine flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and sugars.  Add
  butter, one egg, and vanilla.  After combined, beat on med. speed for
  two minutes.  ( It's gonna be as thick as cookie dough!)
  
  2. Add remaining eggs, beating for 30 seconds after the addition of
  each one.
  
  3. Add carrots, pineapple, raisins, and walnuts.
  
  4. Bake in two greased and floured 9" layer pans for about 60-70
  minutes.
  
  5. Cool in pans for ten minutes and then remove and allow to cool
  completely.
  
  6.  Frost with your favorite CREAM CHEESE FROSTING.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crawfish Pie
 Categories: Main dish, Cajun/creol, Pie/tart
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ea Onion - Diced
      1 lb Crawfish Tails - Coarsely
           -Chopped
    1/4 c  Green Onion; Minced
    1/4 c  Parsley - Minced
      2 ea Garlic - Cloves
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 ea Bell Pepper - Diced
    1/2 c  Bread Crumbs - Seasoned
      2 ea Celery Stalks - Diced
    1/2 ts Red Pepper
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 ea Egg
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Tomato Sauce
      1 c  Milk
      1 ea 10" Pie Plate (Double Crust)
 
  Saute onions, garlic, bell pepper and celery in butter until limp. Add
  tomato sauce, crawfish and parsley.  Cook slowly for 10 minutes. Turn
  off heat.  Add bread crumbs, salt, pepper, egg and milk then mix
  well. Bake 35 to 40 minutes in 350 degree oven.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Triple-Duty Marinade
 Categories: Meats, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lg Garlic clove, chopped
      6 tb Dry white wine
      2 tb Raspberry vinegar
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Green peppercorn mustard
           -or Dijon mustard
    1/2 c  Canola oil; or other
           -flavorless vegetable oil
 
  This recipe makes enough marinade for 2 large flank steaks, at least
  1 1/2 pounds each.
  
  Score one steak on both sides.  Put it in a shallow glass or ceramic
  dish. (Wrap and refrigerate the other steak for the next two meals.)
  Sprinkle the steak with garlic.  Whisk in the oil.  Pour the marinade
  over the steak, turning to coat.  Marinate at least 6 hours, covered
  and refrigerated.  When the meat is ready for cooking, reuse the
  marinade with halved portions of the second steak.
  
  NOTE:  You may substitute a simpler marinade made by whisking together
  canola oil and red wine vinegar in 3-to-1 proportions.  Sprinkle the
  meat with chopped garlic, then pour the whisked mixture over it.
  
  From USA Weekend magazine, September 17-19, 1993. From the Column *The
  Weekend Cook* by Lee Bailey.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Adobo (Mexican Smoked Chile Marinade)
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Chilies, Meats, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3    Oranges
      1    Lime
      2    To 3 canned chipotle chilies
           -or to taste
      3    Cloves garlic (1 T)
      2 ts Dried oregano
    1/2 ts Cumin seed
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      2 tb Wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  This spicy marinade owes its unusual flavor to the chipotle, a smoked
  jalapeno chile.  Chipotles are usually sold canned in tomato paste.
  Look for them at Mexican and Latin American markets.  Adobo marinade
  goes particularly well with pork.
  
  Juice the oranges and lime.  Finely chop chilies and garlic.  Place
  citrus juices, chilies, garlic, oregano, cumin, black pepper, vinegar
  and salt in blender and puree until smooth.
  
  Makes enough marinade for 1 1/2 to 2 pounds meat or chicken.
  
  Source: FOODday, July 9, '91 From: Valerie Whittle
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spice Rubs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Article by Chris Schlesinger
           And John Willoughby,
           Coauthors of several
           Cookbooks, including Big
           Flavors of the Hot Sun
           (Morrow, 1994).
 
  Make-ahead spice blends provide deep flavor with practically no
  effort.
  
  BY CHRIS SCHLESINGER AND JOHN WILLOUGHBY
  
  Rubbed onto the outside of foods, spice blends will encourage the
  formation of a deeply browned crust filled with complex, concentrated
  flavors. They are also a healthful alternative to traditional sauces
  since they contain no fat at all.
  
  Spice rubs can be used with virtually any type of food, and in
  general you can mix and match rubs and foods with abandon. However,
  there are a couple of general guidelines to follow when choosing a
  spice mix for a particular food. First, you must take into account
  the size of the food item to be cooked and make the rub stronger or
  lighter accordingly. For example, a rub designed for the outside of a
  whole chicken should be more potent than one for a relatively thin
  chicken breast or thigh. Second, you need to match strength to
  strength in terms of taste, that is, use earthier spices for meat,
  lighter ones for fish and chicken. Also, keep in mind that spices
  like cumin and coriander are good "bulk" spices for rubs, while
  aromatic spices like cloves and cinnamon need to be used lightly.
  
  Spice rubs actually function as a kind of dry marinade. As such, they
  have several advantages over their traditional wet counterparts.
  
  Since they are composed almost solely of spices, they provide stronger
  flavors than marinades, which typically comprise oil and an acidic
  liquid with some spices added to the mix. Rubs also stick better to
  the surface of foods than marinades, which again gives them an edge
  when it comes to intensifying flavor.
  
  The technique involved in using spice rubs could not be simpler. Just
  take small handfuls of the spice mix that you have chosen and rub it
  over the entire surface of the food to be cooked, using a bit of
  pressure to make sure the spices actually adhere to the food. No need
  for brushes, either- bare hands are the best way to apply these
  mixtures. You can put the rubs on food several hours before you begin
  to cook, or five minutes before, and the effect will be about the
  same.
  
  You will notice that most of these rubs do not contain salt. However,
  you should sprinkle the food liberally with salt before applying the
  rubs. Contrary to the common wisdom that allowing meat to sit with
  salt on it causes the juices to leak out, this process actually adds
  a deeper flavor to the meat.
  
  All the rubs below will keep for about six weeks if they are tightly
  covered and stored in a cool, dark place.
  
  From : Sallie Krebs, Thu 06 Jul 95 04:00, Area: COOKING Source: Cook's
  Illustrated, July/August 1995.
  
  From: Sallie Krebs                    Date: 07-18-95 (22:56) (14)
  (E)Homecooki
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maryland Crab Imperial
 Categories: Seafood
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Backfin crab meat
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Minced onion, instant
  1 1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Margarine or butter
      1 tb Flour
    1/2 c  Milk
           Few dashes pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
           Paprika for sprinkling
 
  Remove shells from crabmeat. In medium pan, melt butter, mix in flour,
  stirring until smooth. Slowly add milk, stirring constantly, to keep
  mixture free of lumps. Cook over medium heat until mixture comes to a
  boil and thickens. Mix in Worcestershire sauce. Cool. Fade in lemon
  mayonnaise, lemon juice, salt and pepper. In another pan, heat butter
  until lightly browned. Add crabmeat and toss lightly. Combine with
  sauce mixture. Put mixture into individual shells, sprinkle with
  paprika and bake at 450 degrees 10 to 15 minutes.
  From: Sandee Eveland                  Date: 07-18-95 (11:46) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Krispies Treats
 Categories: Kids, Snacks
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      3 tb Margarine
     10 oz Marshmallows
      6 c  Rice Krispies*
           Vegetable cooking spray
 
  Melt margarine in large saucepan over low heat.  Add marshmallows and
  stir until completely melted.  Remove from heat.  Add Rice Krispies
  and stir until well coated.  Using buttered spatula, press mixture
  evenly into 13 x 9 pan coated with Pam.  Cut into 24 squares.  160
  calories and 2 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : Kelloggs box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (13:49) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peanutty Picnic Packer
 Categories: Kids, Snacks
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1    Recipe
           Rice Krispies* Treats
 
  Prepare Rice Krispies Treats recipe, adding 1/4 cup peanut butter to
  melted marshmallows just before adding cereal.  Using, buttered
  spatula, press mixture into pan.  190 calories and 6 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : Kelloggs box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (13:49) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cereal Fun Bars
 Categories: Kids, Snacks
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1    Recipe
           Rice Krispies* treats
 
  Prepare recipe.  Press into 9 x 9 pan sprayed with Pam.  Cut into 2
  3/4 by 2" pieces when cool.  Place wooden stick into the end of each
  piece to make fun bars.  Decorate as desired with frosting and
  candies.  160 calories and 3 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : Kelloggs box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (13:50) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cereal Cups
 Categories: Kids, Snacks
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      1    Recipe
           Rice Krispies* Treats
 
  Prepare recipe.  Divide and shape warm mixture evenly into 16- 2 1/2"
  muffin pan cups sprayed with Pam.  Let cereal cups cool until firm.
  Remove from pan and fill with your favorite candies, rainbow sherbet
  or non-fat frozen yogurt.
  
  Recipe By     : Kelloggs box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (13:50) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flavored Marshmallow Snacks
 Categories: Kids, Snacks
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1    Recipe
      1 c  Miniature marshmallows
           (colored)
           Rice Krispies* Treats
 
  Prepare Rice Krispies Treats recipe.  Gently add colored marshmallows
  and stir until well coated.  Using buttered spatuala press mixture
  into 13 x 9 pan.  Cut into 24 squares.  160 calories and 3 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : Kelloggs box
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (13:51) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Abm Beignets
 Categories: Breakfast, Desserts, Breadmaker
      Yield: 24 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      1    Egg
      2 tb Oil
      3 tb Nonfat dry milk powder
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Salt
  3 1/2 c  Bread flour
  2 1/2 ts Yeast
    1/2 c  Powdered sugar
 
  Place all ingredients except sugar in machine.  Program for knead and
  first rise and press start.  The dough will be sticky at first but
  will hold its shape.  After the final cycle, it will be workable.
  When dough is finished, turn the dough out onto a floured surface and
  let it rest for 10 minutes.  Roll the dough to a generous 1/4" thick
  and cut it into 2" squares.  Cover the squares with a clean towel and
  let rise for 30 minutes. Add the powdered sugar to a medium size
  clean paper bag.  Lay out paper towels to drain to donuts.  Heat 1 to
  1 1/2 " of oil to 375.  Do not add too many add once or it may cool
  the oil too much.  Gently brush the uncooked squares to remove any
  extra flour.  Side them into the heated oil. When they pop to the
  surface, spoon the hot oil over them constantly until they are
  puffed. Turn the squares and cook until they are a light golden color
  on both sides.  It should take 1 to 2 minutes.  Cut the first couple
  of squares in half to be sure there is not sticky uncooked dough
  inside. Remove from hot oil with slotted spoon and drain on paper
  towels. While warm, drop them, 3 or 4 at a time, into the bag with
  powdered sugar and shake until they are well coated.  Serve
  immediately.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:14) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate And Cherry Loaf
 Categories: Breadmaker, Desserts, Breads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/3 c  Light cream
      2 tb Light cream
      2    Eggs
    3/4 ts Orange rind -- grated
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3 c  Bread flour
  2 1/2 ts Yeast
           Prepared cherry mixture
    3/4 c  Semisweet chocolate --
           Chopped
 
  To prepare cherry mixture, soak 3/4 cup (4 oz) in 1/4 cup orange juice
  overnight.  Place all the ingredients except cherry mixture and
  chocolate in the machine, program for basic white bread and press
  start.  After 33 minutes have elapsed, add the cherries with any
  remaining liquid and the chocolate.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:14) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Poppy Seed Sweet Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Desserts, Breads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8 oz Lemon yogurt, lowfat
      2 tb Oil
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Lemon rind -- finely minced
      1 ts Salt
      3 tb Sugar
      4 tb Buttermilk, dried
  3 1/3 c  Bread flour
      3 tb Poppy seeds
      1 tb Yeast
 
  Place all ingredients in the machine.  Program for sweet bread or
  basic white bread and push start.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:15) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Molasses Doughnuts
 Categories: Breadmaker, Desserts
      Yield: 16 servings
 
      3 tb Shortening
      3    Eggs
    1/2 c  Molasses
    1/2 c  Water
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Baking powder
      4 tb Buttermilk, dried
      1 ts Ginger
      2 ts Cinnamon
  3 3/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Yeast
    1/2 c  Granulated sugar or powdered
           Sugar
 
  All ingredients must be at room temperature.  Place the first 11
  ingredients in the machine.  Program for knead and first rise and
  press start.  The dough will be just a little sticky; a tiny amount
  will stick to your finger.  It does hold some shape while kneading.
  Flour your work surface and rolling pin.  When the cycle is complete,
  turn the dough out onto the floured surface and let it sit for 10
  minutes.  Roll the dough to 1/3" thick.  Use enough flour to keep the
  dough from sticking.  Cut doughnuts with cutter.  Place the doughnuts
  on a greased baking sheet and cover with a clean towel.  Let rise for
  1 hour, or until doubled in bulk. Heat  1 1/2 to 2" of oil in
  saucepan or deep fryer.   Use a thermometer to help keep the
  temperature constant.  Fry 2 to 3 doughnuts at a time.  Fry them for
  2 to 3 minutes, turning frequently and spooning the hot oil over
  them.  Remove with slotted spoon and drain on paper towels.  Check
  the first few for doneness.  Shake the warm doughnuts, 3 or 4 at a
  time, in a sturdy paper bag with sugar in it.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:15) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pecan Coffee Cake
 Categories: Breadmaker, Desserts
      Yield: 10 servings
 
  1 1/2    Sticks unsalted butter -- at
           Room temp.
      3    Extra large
      3    Extra large
      2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      6 tb Unsalted butter -- cut into
      1    " chunks
  1 1/2 c  Dark brown sugar
    1/3 c  Corn syrup
      3 tb Molasses
    1/4 c  Heavy cream
      2 c  Pecan halves -- toasted
           Eggs
           Egg yolks
 
  Place all dough ingredients in the machine.  Program for knead and
  first rise and press start.  At the end of the final cycle, transfer
  the dough to a well-oiled bowl, cover it with plastic and refrigerate
  for 2 hours. Generously butter a 12 cup bundt pan.  Place the butter,
  sugar, corn syrup and molasses in a 2 quart saucepan set over medium
  heat.  Allow the mixture to come to a boil.  Cook 2 minutes at full
  boil.  Remove from the heat and add the cream.  Stir in combine and
  then immediately stir in the pecans. Continue to mix until all the
  pecans are covered.  Pour a third of the filling into the prepared
  pan and set aside the rest to cool while you prepare the dough.  On a
  lightly floured work surface, roll the dough into a 20 x 9 inch
  rectangle.  Place the prepared pan nearby.  Pour the rest of the
  filling down the length of the dough and use a metal spatula to
  quickly spread it to within 2" of the edges.  Flip one long side of
  the dough over the middle, then the other, to form a long roll.
  Quickly lift the roll and place it in the pan so that the ends
  overlap slightly.  Cover the pan with lightly oiled plastic wrap and
  allow the dough to rise in warm place until doubled in bulk.  Preheat
  the oven to 375 with the rack in the center position.  Bake for 20
  minutes and then reduce the heat to 350 and bake it another 20 to 25
  minutes.  If the top is getting too brown, cover it loosely with
  foil.  Put a cake rack over a large plate. Remove cake from oven and
  turn over onto the rack.  Scoop up any filling that drips off and
  place it back on cake.  Once filling has cooled, remove the cake to a
  serving plate.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:16) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pina Colada Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Desserts, Breads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Egg
      1 ts Coconut extract
    1/4    Stick unsalted butter --
           Softened
    3/4 c  Coconut milk
      2 tb Coconut milk (if needed)
      3 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ascorbic acid
  2 1/2 c  Bread flour
      1 tb Yeast
      1 c  Coconut, flaked &
           Unsweetened
    1/2 c  Dried pineapple -- chopped
 
  Place all ingredients except coconut and pineapple in the machine.
  Program for sweet or raisin bread.  Add the coconut and pineapple
  when the Hitachi timer reads 3:44.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:16) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pineapple Sweet Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Desserts, Breads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/4 c  Warm water
    1/4    Stick unsalted butter -- cut
           Into pieces
      2    Eggs
    1/4 c  Sour cream
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Bread flour
      1 tb Yeast
      4 oz Dried pineapple -- chopped
 
  Place all the ingredients except dried pineapple in the machine,
  program for white bread and push start.  Add the dried pineapple when
  the timer on Hitachi reads 3:41.  The finished bread is featherly
  light with a solid texture.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:17) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Raised Doughnuts
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breakfast
      Yield: 18 servings
 
    1/2 c  Warm water
      3    Eggs
      3 tb Unsalted butter -- softened
      2 tb Nonfat dry milk
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Mace
      1 tb Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Flour
      1 tb Yeast
 
  Place all the ingredients in the machine, program for knead and first
  rise and press start.  At the end of the final cycle, transfer the
  dough to a lightly oiled bowl, cover it with plastic wrap and place
  in a warm, draft-free place, and allow to rise for an additional 30
  minutes. You can also do this step in the machine by punching the
  dough down, closing the machine, and letting the dough rise for 30
  minutes.  Place the dough on a lightly floured surface and cut it in
  half to make it more manageable. Let the dough rest for 10 minutes.
  Roll it out to 1/3" thick. Flour a doughnut cutter and cut out
  doughnuts. Lift each doughnut, pat it to remove excess flour, and
  place it on a lightly oiled or sprayed baking sheet. Cover the
  doughnuts with a clean towel and let rise until doubled in bulk,
  about 1 hour.  Put 1/2 cup powdered sugar in sturdy paper bag and
  spread out paper towels near frying pan. Heat 2" oil in a medium
  saucepan or deep fryer to 375.  Slide 2 or 3 doughnuts at a time into
  the hot oil. Turn them frequently and spoon the hot oil over them
  until they are well puffed. Drain the doughnuts on paper towels and
  shake them with the sugar in the bag while they are still warm.
  
  Recipe By     : Desserts from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:18) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sam's Pizza
 Categories: Breadmaker, Italian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/3 c  Water (only if needed)
      3 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 tb Cornmeal
      1 c  Whole-wheat flour
      2 c  Flour
      1 tb Yeast
      1 c  Pizza sauce
      1 c  Mozzarella cheese -- grated
 
  Place all dough ingredients in the machine and program for dough and
  first rise.  At the end of final cycle remove the dough to a lightly
  oiled work space, cover it with a clean towel, and let rest 10
  minutes.  Preheat oven to 475.  Roll the dough out to 14" circle on
  pan or pizza peel.  Spread the sauce in a thin layer over the dough.
  Sprinkle on the cheese.  Slide into oven and bake for 15 to 17
  minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:18) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mystic Pizza
 Categories: Breadmaker, Italian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      3 tb Water
      1 ts Olive oil
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Yeast

MMMMM-------------------------TOPPINGS:------------------------------
      2 tb Olive oil
           Salt to taste
           Pepper
  1 1/2 c  Pizza sauce
  1 1/2 c  Mozzarella cheese -- grated
 
  Place all dough ingredients in machine and program for knead and first
  rise.  Press start.  When dough is finished, transfer to floured work
  surface and let it rest for 5 minutes.  Preheat the oven to 400. Roll
  dough to 11" circle and transfer to baking sheet or pizza peel. Brush
  the olive oil over the surface of the dough and then shake on salt
  and pepper. Spread sauce over the surface and top with mozzarella.
  Bake the pizza for 20 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc From Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:19) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Pizza
 Categories: Breadmaker, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      3 tb Water (only if needed)
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Cornmeal
      3 c  Flour
      2 ts Yeast

MMMMM-------------------------TOPPINGS:------------------------------
      3 tb Olive oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- minced
    1/2 c  Mixed fresh herbs (basil,
           Thyme, oregano)
    1/2 c  Fontina cheese -- shredded
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
      6    Sun-dried tomatoes,
           Oil-packed -- in 1/4's
 
  Place dough ingredients in machine and program for knead and first
  rise. Press start.  Check after 5 minutes and add extra water if
  needed, 1 tbsp at a time.  Preheat grill.  When dough has finished,
  transfer the dough to a lightly oiled work surface and use your hands
  to push and flatten the dough into a rough 10 to 12" circle.  Lay the
  dough on the grill and let it cook for 1 minute, or until it puffs
  slightly and the underside stiffens and grill marks appear.  Use a
  wide spatula  or tongs to turn it over and place it on the side of
  the grill (off the direct heat).  Quickly brush the top with half the
  oil and distribute the garlic, herbs and cheeses over the top.  Add
  the sun-dried tomatoes and finally drizzle on the remaining oil.
  Slide the pizza back to the middle of the grill and continue cooking
  while you rotate it to assure even cooking.  Cook about 5 to 6
  minutes. Serve immediately.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:19) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A Trio Of Pizzas
 Categories: Breadmaker, Italian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------PESTO DOUGH-----------------------------
      2 tb Pesto sauce
  1 1/4 c  Water (or more if needed)
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Yeast

MMMMM-------------------SUN-DRIED TOMATO DOUGH------------------------
      5    Sun-dried tomatoes,
           Oil-packed -- cut into
           Thirds
      2 tb Sun-dried tomato paste
  1 1/4 c  Water (or more)
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Yeast

MMMMM------------------------GARLIC DOUGH-----------------------------
      2 tb Garlic paste
  1 1/4 c  Water (or more)
    1/3 c  Olive oil
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPINGS-------------------------------
           Pizza sauce
    1/2 c  Parmigiano-reggiano cheese
           Grated
 
  Place dough ingredients in machine and program for knead and first
  rise. Press start.  Dough will be soft at first but become firmer.
  Preheat the oven to 500 with the rack in the center position.  Turn
  17 x 11 pan upside down.  Spray with Pam.  Cut dough in half and
  cover remaining half with a clean towel.  Place the other half on the
  prepared pan and use rolling pin to roll the dough evenly to the
  edge.  Have a friend hold the pan or place a wet towel underneath.
  Spread with sauce and sprinkle with cheese.  Bake for 8 to 10 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:20) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Mozzarella, Plum Tomato And Basil Pizzettes
 Categories: Breadmaker, Italian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Water
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 pn Pepper
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 lb Mozzarella cheese
      4 lg Plum tomatoes
      3 tb Olive oil
      1    Clove garlic -- minced
           Olive oil for brushing
           Salt and pepper
    1/3 c  Basil leaves -- chopped
 
  Place dough ingredients in pan and program for knead and first rise.
  Prepare toppings while dough is rising. At the end of cycle, transfer
  dough to a lightly floured work surface, cover with a clean towel and
  let rest for 5 minutes.  Preheat the oven to 450 with the rack in the
  center position.  Lightly flour 2 baking sheets and set them aside.
  Slice mozzarella into thin slices and drain on paper towels if
  needed. Slice the tomatoes into thin slices and set aside.  Mix
  together the 3 tbsp olive oil and mixed garlic.  Cut the dough into 4
  pieces and on a lightly oiled surface, roll each piece out to a 7"
  circle.  Transfer the circles to the prepared baking sheets.  Brush
  the surface of each with the garlic and oil mixture.  In a spiral,
  starting 3/4" in from the edge, alternate the cheese and tomato
  slices.  Place a slice of cheese and a slice of tomato in the center.
  Brush the top of the cheese and a slice of the tomato in the center.
  Brush the top of the cheese and tomatoes with olive oil. Sprinkle
  with salt and pepper and bake for 12 minutes.  The cheese will be
  slightly runny.  Remove from the oven and immediately sprinkle on the
  freshly chopped basil and serve immediately.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:20) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Greek Style Pizzettes
 Categories: Breadmaker, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      1 ts Honey
    1/2 ts Lemon rind -- grated
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Salt
  2 3/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/4    Stick unsalted butter
    1/4 lb Spinach leaves -- rinsed and
           Dried
     14    Kalamata olives -- pitted &
           Cut in half
    1/2 c  Feta cheese -- crumbled
      2 tb Parsley -- chopped
           Salt and pepper
      3 tb Olive oil
 
  Place all ingredients in machine and program for knead and first rise.
  Press start.  After the first 5 minutes of kneading the dough will be
  firm and pull away from the sides of the machine.  While the dough is
  rising you can prepare the toppings.  In a saute pan, heat the butter
  over low heat and cook the spinach long enough for it to wilt, about
  2 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the garlic.  Set
  the mixture aside while you assemble the pizzettes.  Preheat the oven
  to 425 with the rack in the center position.  Lightly flour 2 baking
  sheets and set them aside. When the dough is completed, transfer to a
  lightly floured surface, cover it with a clean towel and let it rest
  for 5 minutes. Divide the dough into 4 even pieces and roll each
  piece out to a 6" circle. Transfer the circles to the prepared baking
  sheet.  Distribute the spinach over the circles followed by the
  olives and feta cheese. Sprinkle on the chopped parsley, salt and
  pepper.  Drizzle a small amount of olive oil over the top of each.
  Bake for 20 minutes, or until the crust is deep golden brown and the
  top is starting to brown.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:21) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salsa Pizza With Black Bean Crust
 Categories: Breadmaker, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    2/3 c  Water
      1 tb Honey
      1    Extra large
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Refried beans
      2 ts Chili powder
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
      1 tb Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 c  Salsa
      1 c  Cheddar cheese or monterey
           Jack -- shredded
           Egg
 
  Place all ingredients in machine and program for knead and first rise.
  Press start.  The dough will be quite moist but should form a ball.
  At the end of the final cycle, punch down the dough and place it on a
  lightly floured work surface to rest for 5 minutes.  Preheat the oven
  to 475.  On a lightly floured, roll the dough out to a 17 x 11
  rectangle or fit it to your jellyroll pan.  Lightly oil the pan and
  place the dough into the pan, stretching it to the edges.  Spread the
  dough with the salsa and sprinkle with the cheese.  Place the pizza
  in a warm place to rise for 30 minutes, then bake it for 17 to 20
  minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:21) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Pizzettes
 Categories: Breadmaker, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      2 tb Sour cream
    1/4 c  Crushed red pepper
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      2 tb Cornmeal
  1 1/2 ts Yeast

MMMMM---------------------------SALSA--------------------------------
      4    Plum tomatoes
    1/2 c  Salsa
      1    Clove garlic -- minced
    1/3 c  Red onion -- chopped
      1 tb Cilantro -- chopped
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2    Avocado -- thinly sliced
      1 c  Sour cream
    1/3 lb Monterey jack cheese --
           Grated
    1/8 c  Jalapeno peppers -- sliced
 
  Place all the ingredients in the machine and program for knead and
  first rise.  Press start.  The dough will be firm and pull away from
  the sides of the bowl.  While the dough is rising you can prepare the
  topping.  In mixing bowl blend together all salsa ingredients.
  Refrigerate until needed.  Preheat the oven to 400 with teh rack in
  the center position. Lightly dust 2 baking sheets with cornmeal and
  set aside.  When the dough cycle is completed, transfer the dough to
  a lightly floured work surface, cover it with a clean towel and let
  it rest for 5 minutes.  Divide the dough into 4 equal pieces and roll
  out each piece to an 8" circle. Transfer the circles to the prepared
  baking sheet.  Spread the salsa on each circle. Lay on the avocado
  slices and then spoon on the sour cream. Sprinkle with the cheese and
  top with the peppers if desired.  Bake for 20 minutes until the
  topping is bubbly.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:25) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rosemary Mustard Focaccia
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Water (only if needed)
    1/4 c  Rosemary leaves
    1/3 c  Grainy mustard
    1/4 c  Olive oil
      2 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Cornmeal
      2 c  Flour
      1 c  Whole-wheat flour
      1 tb Yeast
 
  Place all ingredients in the machine, program for knead and first
  rise. Press start.  Add just enough extra water until the dough forms
  a relaxed dough.  At the end of the final cycle, shape the dough into
  a 10" disk and place it either on a pizza peel or baking sheet that
  has been sprinkled with cornmeal.  Cover the dough with a clean cloth
  and allow to rise in a warm place until doubled in bulk.  Preheat the
  oven to 450 with the rack or pizza stone in center position.  Just
  before baking, use your fingertips to make 1/2" dimples in the top of
  the dough.  Slide the pan into the oven and bake for 17 to 20
  minutes.  Cool the focaccia slightly before cutting into wedges.  Or
  cool it completely, slice it in half horizontally, fill it with
  cheese and/or meat, then cut it into wedges to make sandwiches.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:25) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Rosemary Onion Focaccia
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Water
    1/3 c  Olive oil
    1/3 c  Rosemary leaves
      2 ts Salt
      3 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
      1 tb Yeast
      1 lg Spanish onions -- cooked
           In:
      2 tb Olive oil

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 tb Olive oil
           Coarse salt
           Ground pepper
 
  Place all ingredients except cooked onion in the machine, program for
  knead and first rise.  Press start.  Strain onions and return liquid.
  At end of final knead, add the onion (without liquid) to the machine.
  Restart and knead only until the onion is roughly mixed in.  The
  dough will be wet and onion will remain in clumps, sticking out of
  the dough. Turn the dough out on a well-floured board and knead
  briefly by hand to form a ball. Oil a pizza pan or baking sheet.
  Place the dough on the prepared pan and pat into a 12" disk.  Coat
  the top of the dough with the onion juices. Cover with plastic wrap
  and let it rise either at room tempature until doubled in bulk, or in
  the refrigerator overnight.  A long cold rise in the refrigerator
  will result in a more flavorful bread with a heartier interior.
  Preheat the oven to 450 with the rack in the center position. Just
  before baking the dough, use your fingertips to gently make
  indentations in the surface.  Drizzle on the oil and then sprinkle
  with salt and pepper.  Bake for 10 minutes, then reduce to oven to
  350 and bake for another 12 to 15 minutes, or until the focaccia is
  golden brown. Serve hot or at room temperature.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (16:27) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Irish Pie
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Pastry, Scot/irish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 oz LIME JELLO
      6 oz CREAM CHEESE
      1    Graham cracker pie crust, 9
           Inch
  1 1/2 c  BOILING WATER
      8 oz Cool Whip+ -- THAWED
 
  DISSOLVE JELLO IN BOILING WATER, STIRRING TILL CLEAR.  REFRIGERATE
  TILL SET BUT NOT TOO FIRM.  BREAK UP IN 2 QT BOWL AND BEAT WITH MIXER
  ON MEDIUM SPEED, TILL SMOOTH, BEATING IN THE CREAM CHEESE TILL
  CREAMY.  ON LOW SPEED FOLD IN COOL WHIP AND TURN INTO PREPARED PIE
  SHELL.  CHILL SEVERAL HOURS.
  
  Recipe By     : Gloria Pitzer
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-19-95 (22:46) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Helen's Apricot Delight
 Categories: Candies, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 c  (scant) apricot paste* (or
           Try apricot leather)
      1 c  Boiling water
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      1    Box Sure Jell
    1/2 c  Chopped walnuts
      2 tb (scant) powdered sugar for
           Coating
 
  *Apricot paste is a thicker, softer version of apricot leather,
  available at middle eastern groceries.  Tear or cut the paste into
  small pieces and place in bowl or cup. Pour the boiling water over it
  and set it aside to dissolve. If it hasn't completely dissolved by
  the time the water has cooled, help it along with a hand blender or
  use a regular ble nder. Spray a non-stick brownie pan with Pam and
  set aside, preferably on a marble slab or other good heat sink. I use
  d a 7 1/2 by 11 pan and got 3/8 inch thick candy. A smaller pan would
  give thicker candy. Measure the sugar into a large saucepan. Add the
  apricot mixture and the pectin powder. Stir over high heat till th e
  mixture reaches the soft ball stage. Remove from heat. Stir in
  walnuts. Pour mixture into prepared pan. If walnuts ar en't evenly
  distributed, adjust this quickly with the spoon. Let the candy cool
  while you and your spouse lick the spoo n and scrape the pan. Once
  you've scraped and licked as much as you want, set the pan and spoon
  to soak in hot, soapy w ater. Pour powdered sugar over top of cooled
  candy. Tap to evenly coat the top, then tip the loose sugar into a
  small, shallo w bowl. Dip the end of a sharp spatula in the sugar and
  use it to cut the candy into 1" squares, with a straight, chop ping
  motion. Dip the spatula back into the sugar any time it threatens to
  stick. Using clean fingers pull out the cand ies one by one and flop
  them about in the sugar to coat all sides. Place coated candies in a
  cookie tin for your sister , lined with wax paper. Separate layers
  with additional paper. Make a second batch for your husband and
  yourself (at l east that's how I did it). Makes 32 pieces.
  
  From: Helen Fleischer
  
  From: Pat Stockett                    Date: 07-19-95 (06:34) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roasted Duck (Kathy Pitts)
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Here's the duck roasting
           Method that was given to me
           Many years
           Ago by an elderly gentleman
           Who had worked as "duck
           Chef" for a major
           Restaurant in Los Angeles.
           The results are as you
           Describe -- a fairly
           Fat-free duck with a dark
           Brown, crispy skin.
 
  Rinse the duck inside and out. Trim off the first joint of the wing,
  and pull off all visible fat from both the neck cavity and body
  cavity of the bird.  Rub the inside of the duck with a cut lemon.  If
  you like, stick a couple of pieces of celery and a cut orange inside
  the body cavity of the duck (it gives a nice flavor).
  
  Truss the duck for roasting.  Now comes the fun part:  with an
  icepick or carving fork, stab the H**l out of the duck, particularly
  on the lower portion of the breast, and along the thighs.  Rub the
  duck skin with a cut lemon.
  
  Place the duck on a rack in a fairly deep roasting pan (you'll need
  it to catch the fat).  Preheat your oven to 450 degrees.  Place the
  duck in the oven, and roast for exactly 15 minutes.  Pull the duck
  out, and stab it again.  Reduce the oven heat to 350, and return the
  duck to the oven. Roast until the duck reaches an internal
  temperature of 180 degrees, continuing to prick the skin of the duck
  maybe every 20 minutes. DO NOT BASTE. As the fat from the duck
  accumulates in the bottom of the pan, drain it out, to prevent it
  from coming over the top of the roasting rack and touching the duck.
  This entire process will take about an hour and a half. From: Pat
  Stockett                    Date: 07-19-95 (06:38) (19) (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Flank Steak (Fcb)
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Flank steak 1.5 lb
           Fresh tomato salsa (see
           Recipe)
      1 c  Dry red wine
    3/4 c  Balsamic vinegar
      2 tb Olive oil
      4 tb Coarsely chopped italian
           Parsley
      2 lg Cloves finely minced garlic
      1 ts Coarse black pepper
 
  Place flank steak in glass dish. Combine marinade ingredients in a
  bowl and pour over steak. Cover and marinate for 4 hours at room
  temperature, turning meat twice; or cover and refrigerate overnight.
  Cook 3-4 inches over hot coals until juicy and pink inside, 3-4
  minutes per side. Baste with remaining marinade while steak is
  cooking. Remove from grill. Let rest for 5 minutes, then slice thinly
  on the diagonal. Arrange on a serving platter, topped with fresh
  tomato salsa. Keywords: Balsamic Source: Fred's Cookbook
  
  From: Robert Miles                    Date: 07-19-95 (23:03) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bourbon Marinade
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Alcohol
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Bourbon, 1/4 cup soy sauce,
    1/4 c  Firmly packed light brown
           Sugar, 1 large onion,
           Chopped, 3 tablespoons
           Dijon-style mustard, 1
        ts Worcestershire sauce
 
  In a ceramic or glass dish combine the bourbon, the soy sauce, the
  sugar, the onion, the mustard, and the Worcestershire sauce. Use the
  marinade to marinate pork, beef, or chicken in the refrigerator
  overnight and to baste it as it is grilled. Source: JULY
  1983/GOURMET, p.136
  
  From: Robert Miles                    Date: 07-19-95 (23:04) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apricot Kolachkes
 Categories: Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Jar apricot preserves (12
           Ounces)
    1/2 c  Finely chopped walnuts OR
           Pecans
    1/4 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ground cloves
      1 c  Butter or margarine,
           Softened
      8 oz Cream cheese (1 package),
           Softened
      2 tb Sugar
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      1 lg Egg, lightly beaten
      1 tb Water
           Sifted powdered sugar
 
  Combine the preserves, chopped nuts, cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves in a
  small bowl.  Set aside
  
  Beat the butter and cream cheese together at medium speed with an
  electric mixer until creamy.  Add the sugar, beating well.  Add the
  flour and mix at low speed until well blended.
  
  Divide the dough into three equal parts.  Roll each portion on a
  lightly floured surface to a thickness of 1/8 inch.  Cut with a
  3-inch round cutter.  Spoon 1/2 tesapoon of the apricot filling
  mixture onto the center of each round.  Combine the water and egg;
  brush on the edges. Fold the opposite sides to the center, slightly
  overlapping the edges. Pinch to seal.  Place on lightly greased
  baking sheets.
  
  Bake at 350F for 12 minutes or until golden.  Remove to wire racks and
  cool.  Sprinkle with powdered sugar.
  
  Makes 5 dozen.
  
  [JoAnn Ritmiller; Baltimore, Maryland] [Come for Cookies and
  Coffee....After Christmas] [Southern Living; November 1994]
  
  Posted by Fred Peters.
  From: Robert Miles                    Date: 07-19-95 (17:15) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Duck & Andouille Sauce Piquant
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Olive oil (for roux)
      3 c  Onions, chopped
      3 c  Geen onions, chopped
      1 x  Water
      3 c  Chablis wine
     11 c  Tomato sauce
      6 ts Louisiana hot sauce
      1 lb Andouille, sliced 1/4" thick
      3 c  Plain flour (for roux)
      1 c  Bell pepper, chopped
      2 c  Parsley, chopped
      2 tb Garlic, finely chopped
    1/2 ts Dried mint, crushed
      3 tb Lea & Perrins
      5 ts Salt
  2 1/2 lb Wild duck breasts
 
  Brown off duck breasts in some olive oil. Make a roux with oil and
  flour (see Justin's recipe posted earlier). Add onions, bell pepper,
  green onions, and parsley to roux.  Stir and cook. Add one cup water
  and garlic. Cook.  Add wine and some more water. Add other seasonings
  and tomato sauce. Mix well. Add andouille (or smoked sausage) and
  duck breasts. Stir. Simmer on low heat for 3 to 4 hours.  Stir
  occasionally. Add more salt and cayenne to your taste. Makes about 3
  gallons, so this is for alot of people. Serve over spaghetti or rice.
  From Justin Wilson's "Outdoor Cooking With Inside Help"
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Haggis 1
 Categories: Sausage, Scot/irish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------BARB DAY - GWHP32A--------------------------
           Stomach bag and pluck (heart
           Liver and lights of a sheep
           (You can substitute a
           Selection of organ meats)
      2    Onions; peeled
      2 c  Irish Pinhead oatmeal
  1 2/3 c  Suet
           Salt & pepper
           Trussing needle and fine
           String
 
  Thoroughly wash the stomach bag in cold water.  Turn it inside out and
  scald it, then scrape the surface with a knife. Soak it in cold salted
  water overnight.  Next day remove the bag from the water and leave it
  on one side while preparing the filling.  Wash the pluck.  Put it
  into a pan, with the windpipe hanging over the side into a bowl, to
  let out any impurities. Cover the pluck with cold water, add 1
  teaspoon of salt and bring the water to a boil. Skim the surface,
  then simmer for 1 1/2 to 2 hours.  Meanwhile parboil the onions,
  drain, reserving the ligquid, and chop them roughly. Also tpast the
  pinhead oatmeal until golden brown. Drain the pluck when ready and
  cut away the windpipe and any excess gristle. Mince half the liver
  with all the heart and lights, then stir in the shredded suet, the
  toasted oatmeal and the onions. Season well with salt and pepper.
  Moisten with as much of the onion or pluck water as necessary to make
  the mixture soft. With the rough surface of the bag outside fill it
  just over half full, the oatmeal will swell during cooking, and sew
  the ends together with the trussing needle and fine string. Prick the
  bag in places with the needlw.  Place the haggis on and enamel plate
  and put it into a pan of boiling water.  Cover the pan and cook for
  about 3 hours, adding more boiling water when necessary to keep the
  haggis covered. Serve with the traditional accompaniment of
  Tatties-an'Neeps. (Mashed potatoes and mashed turnips.)
  
  This is typically served on Burns' Night, January 25, when Scotland
  celebrates the birth of their greatest poet, Robert Burns, who was
  born in Ayrshire on that date in 1759. During the celebration, Burns
  poems are read, and the haggis is addressed by a member of the party,
  ceremonially, in the for of verses from Burns' poem, "Address to a
  Haggis" A typical meal for Burn's night would include, Cock-a-Leekie,
  Haggis with Tattie-an'-neeps, Roastit Beef, Tipsy Laird, and Dunlop
  Cheese.
  
  Source:  A Feast of Scotland, by Janet Warren
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caramel Frosting^
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Cream
      1 tb Butter
    1/3 ts Vanilla
 
  In a saucepan, mix brown sugar, cream and butter. boil until ball
  forms in ice cold water. Remove from fire and add vanilla. Beat until
  to right consistency to spread. From Mrs. Dalley.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cruellers^
 Categories: Desserts, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 ts Baking soda in
      4 tb Milk
    1/2 pt Flour
      4 tb Butter, melted
      4    Eggs
      6 tb (heaping) sugar
           Flour
 
  Put soda in milk into flour, add melted butter and stir to mix. Beat
  eggs with sugar; work them into the rest of the ingredients. Add
  enough flour to make a stiff dough that can be rolled out. Roll, cut
  and fry in hot lard; flavor with a little grated nutmeg.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Johnny Cake 2 ^
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Melted cracklings or fat
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Salt
      2 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Baking soda
      2 c  Corn meal
 
  Beat eggs well and add salt, buttermilk and soda. Mix only to
  moisten; do no over beat. Pour into greased baking tin and bake at
  400 degrees for 20-25 minutes.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cup Custard^
 Categories: Puddings, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Egg
      1 tb Sugar
        dr Or two of flavoring or
           Spice
           Speck of salt
    1/2 c  Milk
 
  Beat lightly together all ingredients. Pour into greased custard cups
  and cook slowly with cups set in pan of water until set. This doesn't
  make a lot so you may want to double or even triple the recipe.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whipped Cream Dessert^
 Categories: Desserts, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 pt Whipping cream, beat stiff
    1/2 c  Pineapple, cubed
           Few marshmallows, chopped
           Fine
           Few black walnuts, chopped
 
  Mix all ingredients together and serve in dessert or parfait glasses.
  Serve with nut wafers. This delicious dessert is very fine and does
  not take long to prepare. Enough for 6 people - it's very rich.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caramel Pudding^
 Categories: Puddings, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Brown sugar
      3 c  Water
      3 ts (rounded) cornstarch
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Put sugar and water in a saucepan and bring to a boil. Dissolve
  cornstarch in a little cold water, add to syrup and boil about 5
  minutes. Stir occasionally. Take from fire and add nuts and vanilla.
  Pour into small bowls, cool. Serve with whipped cream.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb Dessert^
 Categories: Desserts, Oldies, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Rhubarb, washed and cut into
           Pieces
      1 c  Sugar
      1    Egg
      2 tb Flour

MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
      1 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Milk
        pn Salt
      2 tb Butter
      1 ts (heaping) baking powder
 
  Mix together sugar, egg and flour. Add to rhubarb and put in a baking
  dish. Then make a batter of the flour, milk, salt, butter and baking
  powder. Put this on top of the rhubarb mixture and bake until done.
  Serve with cream, either plain or whipped. This dish can be made with
  apples too if you don't have any rhubarb.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By CAROLYN SHAW   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pigs In A Poke
 Categories: Meats, Cheese/eggs, Pastry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      8    Hot dogs, partially split
      8 sl Cheddar cheese that are the
           -size of 1" strips
      8 oz Refrigerator Crescent Rolls
 
  Fill each hot dog with a cheese strip.  Separate crescent dough into 8
  triangles.  Place hot dog on wide end of triagle, and roll up.  Place
  on greased cookie sheet, cheese side up.  Bake at 375 degrees for 15
  minutes or until rolls are golden brown.  Makes 8 servings.
  
  Source:  S.H.A.R.E. Colorado June/July 1995
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cucumber/Tomato Soup Salad
 Categories: Vegetables, Soup/stew, Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
 10 3/4 oz Cream of Tomato Soup
      2 pk Gelatin
      1 c  Cottage cheese, drained
    1/2 c  Celery, diced
    1/2 c  Cucumbers, diced
           Mayonnaise (optional)
 
  Sprinkle gelatin over soup and let stand 5 minutes.  Add other
  ingredients and pour into molds.  Chill until set.  Serve with
  dollops of mayonnaise, if desired.
  
  Source:  S.H.A.R.E.  Colorado  June/July 1995
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Spinach Salad
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables, Salads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    3/4 lb Chicken Breast Planks
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Soy sauce
      1 bn Fresh spinach
           Boiling water
     16 oz Canned mandarin oranges
           Salad Dressing (your choice)
 
  Combine Chicken breast planks with Worcestershire sauce and soy sauce.
  Saute in small amount of butter or margarine until chicken is tender
  and done. Set aside.
  
  Place spinach leaves in a colander.  Pour boiling water over leaves.
  Drain and set aside to cool.
  
  Place a piece of chicken and a mandarin orange slice at the end of a
  spinach leaf.  Roll up and secure with a toothpick.  Refrigerate at
  least one hour.  Serve with salad dressing of your choice.
  
  Source:  S.H.A.R.E. Colorado May/June 1995
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesy Chicken Legs
 Categories: Poultry, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
      1 tb Dried minced parsley
      1 ts Italian seasoning
           Salt & Pepper to taste
      4    Chicken legs
           Melted Butter or Margarine
 
  Combine parmesan cheese, parsley, Italian seasoning, salt and pepper.
  Dip chicken in melted butter, then in cheese mixture.  Place in
  shallow baking dish.  Drizzle margarine or butter over chicken.  Bake
  at 375 degrees for about 25 minutes or until chicken is done.
  
  Source:  S.H.A.R.E. Colorado May/June 1995
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Scampi
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Chicken legs
     16 oz Chicken broth
    1/4 c  Margarine or butter
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2 c  Finely chopped onion
      1 tb Minced garlic
           Juice of one lemon
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1    Fresh tomato, chopped
           Buttered noodles or cooked
           -rice
 
  Cook chicken legs in broth until done.  Add water to cover, if
  necessary. Remove chicken, cool.  Skin and remove bones.  Cut into
  1/2" pieces.
  
  Heat butter and oil in a skillet.  Add onion, garlic, lemon juice,
  salt and pepper.  Saute until tender.  Add chicken pieces and tomato
  pieces and heat thorougly, stirring constantly.  Serve over buttered
  noodles or rice.
  
  Makes 4-6 servings.
  
  Source:  S.H.A.R.E. Colorado May/June 1995
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Match Attach
 Categories: Sandwich, Meats
      Yield: 1 sandwich
 
      2    All beef patties
           Special Sauce (see below)
           Lettuce
           Cheese
           Onions
           Pickles
           Sesame Seed Bun

MMMMM-----------------------SPECIAL SAUCE----------------------------
      1 c  Miracle Whip Salad Dressing
    1/3 c  Creamy French Dressing
    1/4 c  Sweet pickle relish
      1 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Dry minced onion
 
  Sear the patties in a bit of oil on a hot griddle, both sides to
  medium well.  Place patties each on bottom halves of buns.  To each
  of these add a few tablespoons of Special Sauce, then lettuce,
  Cheese, Onions, pickle, and assemble 1 atop the other, placing top of
  sesame seed bun on top of this. Serve at once to anyone having a Big
  Match Attach.
  
  SPECIAL SAUCE: Stir all ingredients to gether with spoon as listed.
  Makes 2 cups sauce. Keeps up to a week if refrigerated & well
  covered. Do not freeze it.
  
  Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburgers At Home
 Categories: Meats, Sandwich
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
           Hamburger (1/4 pound per
           -person
      1 tb Oil
 
  Use only ground round.  Allow 1/4 lb. per person.  Shape that much
  into 2 thin patties (& I** use the lid to an 8 oz. margarine cup in
  which to shape the patties). Press hamburger into lid evenly.  Makes
  it very flat & uniform in size.  It drops right out when you bend the
  lid a bit. Place each patty on a accomodating sqaure of waxed paper,
  stacking these in a coffee can, with a tight fitting lid.  Preeze
  them this way to use within 3 months, removing only as many patties
  as you need at a time. Lightly oil a flat grill, the kind you would
  ordinarily use for making pancakes. I have one that I use for nothing
  else BUT hamburgers, which I spray in Pam when I've washed it each
  time it is used, and store it in a plastic bag until I use it again.
  Get the grill HOT and sear each patty quickly in about 1 Tablespoon
  oil -- turning only once to sear the other side. Then depending on
  the degree of doneness, adjust heat to medium-low for additional
  cooking.  Do not use a skillet with collared sides or you'll trap in
  vapors, moisture and you will be "frying" the hamburgers rather than
  searing them, thus making the tough!
  
  ** The "I" in this recipe refers to Gloria Pitzer.
  
  Source: Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Cream Cheese Appetizer
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 pk Crescent rolls,refrigerated
           -(4-ounce pkg)
      8 oz Cream cheese
    1/2 ts Dill weed
      1    Egg yolk; beaten
 
    Unroll dough on lightly floured surface; press together seams to
  form 12x4 inch rectangle.  Sprinkle top of cream cheese with half of
  dill; lightly press dill into cream cheese.  Place cream cheese, dill
  side down, in center of dough.  Sprinkle cream cheese with remaining
  dill. Enclose cream cheese in dough by bringing sides of dough
  together, pressing edges to seal.  Place on lightly greased cookie
  sheet; brush with egg yolk. Bake at 350 F., 15 to 18 minutes or until
  lightly browned. Serve with assorted crackers and apple slices.  8
  servings
    Variations:
    Substitute combined 1/2 ts dried rosemary leaves, crushed, and 1/2
  ts paprika for dill weed. Source: Philadelphia Brand Cream Cheese
  Cookbook. Typos by Elizabeth Wood.
  Submitted By ELIZABETH WOOD   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Penne With Goat Cheese & Sun-Dried Tomatoes
 Categories: Pasta, Salads, Cheese/eggs, Tomatoes
      Yield: 4 to 6 svgs
 
    1/4 c  Sun-dried tomatoes
      1 ea (3-oz.) Log goat cheese
      2 ea Cloves garlic; minced
    1/2 ts Freshly ground black pepper
      2 c  Arugula or watercress, stems
           -removed
      1 lb Penne pasta
      2 tb Toasted pine nuts (optional)
 
  PREP TIME:  10 minutes
  
  COOKING TIME:  10 minutes
  
  1.  Pour 1/2 cup of boiling water over sun-dried tomatoes in a small
  bowl. Cover and let stand 15 minutes until tomatoes soften.  Drain
  tomatoes, reserving soaking liquid.
  
  2.  Chop tomatoes and combine with crumbled goat cheese, garlic and
  pepper in a food processor or blender.  Puree 30 seconds then add
  liquid from tomatoes.  Puree another 30 seconds.
  
  3.  Cook penne according to package directions.  Rinse and drain
  well. Toss with sauce, arugula and pine nuts.
  
  PER SERVING: : 427 calories; 6g fat; 13% fat calories; 10mg
  cholesterol; 4.7g fiber.
  
  Source:  Kathryn Arnold in "Delicious! Your Magazine of Natural
  Living" (natural foods store give-away), July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta Nicoise
 Categories: Seafood, Pasta, Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 lb Green beans; fresh, sliced
           -diagonally into 1-inch
           -pieces & lightly steamed
    1/4 c  (pitted) Kalamata olives
    1/4 c  Red onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Flat leaf parsley; minced
      1 tb Capers (optional)
     16 ea Cherry tomatoes; halved
      1 ea Clove garlic; minced
      2 tb Olive oil
      3 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Dijon mustard
      1 tb Fresh oregano; minced
      2 cn (6.5-oz.) cans water-packed
           -tuna; drained and flaked
      1 lb Rotini (corkscrew pasta)
 
  PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 1 hour to marinate
  
  COOKING TIME:  10 minutes
  1.  Combine green beans, olives, onion, parsley, capers and tomatoes
  in a large bowl.  Combine garlic, olive oil, vinegar, mustard and
  oregano in a small jar and shake well.  Pour dressing over vegetables
  and toss well. Let marinate in refrigerator 1 hour.
  
  2.  Cook rotini according to package directions.  Rinse and drain
  well. Toss warm pasta with tuna and marinated vegetables.  Serve
  immediately.
  
  PER SERVING:  384 calories; 8g fat; 19% fat calories; 22mg
  cholesterol; 4g fiber.
  
  Source:  Kathryn Arnold in "Delicious! Your Magazine of Natural
  Living," (natural foods store give-away) July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Allan's B.B.Q. Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 ketchup, 1
 
      1    Chili sauce
    1/3 c  Prepared Mustard
      1 tb Dry mustard
  1 1/2 c  Brown sugar
  1 1/2 c  Wine vinegar
      1 c  Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Thick steak sauce
    1/2 c  Worchestershire sauce
      1 cn Beer
      1 tb Pepper
      2 tb Oil
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Garlic Powder
 
  Instructions:
  
  Mix together well and put into jars.
  
  Source/Author: Family Secret / typo Bob Shiells
  
  Notes:
  
  You may freeze or leave on your shelves.
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chef's Secret Meat Sauce
 Categories: Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 c  mayonna
 
    1/3 c  Chilli sauce
    1/4 c  French's Prepared Mustard
    1/4 c  Shredded onion
      1 tb Horseradish
      1 ts French's Leaf Oregano
    1/8 ts French's Cayenne Pepper
    1/3 c  Dairy-made sour cream
 
  Instructions:
  
  Mix all ingredients well.
  
  Source/Author: Unknown / typo Bob Shiells
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Crunch Chicken
 Categories: Low cal/fat, Poultry, Nuts/grains, Syrups
      Yield: 3 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 4 SERVINGS--------------------------
  1 1/4 lb Boneless skinless chicken
      2 ea Tb Plus 2 ts lowfat
           -mayonnaise
  1 1/2 oz Grape Nuts cereal, crushed
      1 ea Tb Plus 1 ts honey
 
  Wash chicken and pat dry. Place in a small shallow baking pan. Using a
  pastry brush, spread mayonnaise over both sides of chicken. Sprinkle
  crushed cereal evenly over top of chicken. Drizzle evenly with honey.
  Preheat oven to 375. Let stand at room temperature for 10 minutes.
  Bake uncovered for 45 minutes. Per serving: 32g protein, 7g fat, 15g
  carb., 258mg sodium, 103mg chol., 255 calories.
  
  Submitted By SHARON STEVENS   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almost No-Cal Red Beans & Rice
 Categories: Rice, Tomatoes
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Dry red kidney beans
  2 1/2 c  Celery, finely chopped
      2    Green bell peppers,
           -cored, seeded, and finely
           Chopped
      2 md Onions, finely chopped
      5    Bay leaves
      6    Plum tomatoes
           Hot pepper sauce, bottled
 
  Cover beans with water (2-inches above beans).  Let soak all day or
  overnight.  Drain, then replace water just to cover the beans.  Throw
  in all the vegetables.  Bring to boil, reduce heat to simmer for
  about 45 minutes.  When beans start cracking and showing white)
  they're done.
  
  Serve with cooked rice, white, or brown.  Add hot pepper sauce to
  taste.
  
  Makes 8 servings.
  
  Recipe:  Sara David on AT&T's Interchange
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 19 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hamburgers
 Categories: Meats, Sandwich
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
  1 1/2 lb Lean ground beef
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      4 tb HEINZ's 57 Sauce
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Graham crackers, finely
           -crushed
 
  In a large bowl, mix all of the ingredients and form into patties.
  
  Cook outside on a BBQ grill.
  
  Recipe:  Grant Griffin on AT&T's Interchange
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 19 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dixie's Bar & Smokehouse Grill Baking Powder Biscuits
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      4 c  Flour
    1/8 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 tb Baking powder
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Baking soda
    3/4 c  Lard
      2 c  Buttermilk
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
  
  In a large mixing bowl, mix the flour, sugar, baking powder, salt, and
  baking soda with electric mixer. Add lard and continue to mix.  Add
  the buttermilk, mixing only until liquid is incorporated.  Do not
  overmix.
  
  On a floured surface, place the dough and knead in extra flour until
  the dough no longer is sticky.  Roll dough out to W-inch thickness.
  Cut biscuits with a 3-inch biscuit cutter or glass.  Place on greased
  sheet pan and bake in the preheated oven for 10 to 15 minutes.
  
  Makes 20 biscuits.
  
  Recipe:  Dixie's Bar And Smokehouse Grill, St. Paul, MN
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blancmange
 Categories: Desserts
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
  2 1/2 c  Milk, divided
      2    Lemon's zest, grated
      1 c  (4 oz) slivered almonds
      3    Envelopes (1/4 oz)
           -unflavored gelatin
    5/8 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Half-and-half
      6 tb Brandy
 
  In a saucepan, combine 2 cups of the milk and the lemon zest.  Bring
  to a low simmer; reduce heat to very low and let stand 30 minutes,
  covered, stirring occasionally.
  
  Meanwhile, toast the almonds over very low heat for about 7 minutes,
  until they become fragrant and begin to color.  In a food processor
  or, blender, grind them finely.
  
  Stir the gelatin into the remaining 1/2 cup of the milk and let rest 1
  minute.
  
  Pour the hot milk through a strainer to remove the lemon zest.  Stir
  the softened gelatin and the sugar into the hot milk.  If the sugar
  and gelatin do not dissolve completely (no grains should be visible
  in a metal spoon), heat briefly, stirring.  Stir in the
  half-and-half, brandy, and ground almonds.
  
  Pour the mixture into a 1-1/2 quart mold, or into 10 individual molds.
  Chill 4 or more hours, until fully set, before unmolding.
  
  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  
  Recipe:  Newspaper
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sauteed Chicken Livers
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 tb Extra virgin olive oil
           -and/or butter
      1 md Onion, quartered and
           -sliced
      2    To 3 cloves garlic,
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Chicken stock
      1 lb Chicken liver
      2 tb (total) fresh herbs
           -(oregano, thyme, lemon
           -balm, etc.)
      1 c  To 1-1/2  cups dry white
           -wine
    1/2 c  To 1 cup Italian bread
           -crumbs
      2 tb Fresh parsley, chopped
 
  In a pan over medium heat, heat/melt olive oil and/or butter (I
  prefer a cast-iron pan).  Add the onion and cook until they begin to
  be transparent. Add the garlic and cook for another 5 minutes.
  Increase the heat to medium-high and add the chicken stock, herbs,
  and livers.
  
  Cook until the livers begin to brown and are almost cooked to your
  taste. Add the white wine and cook it down until only about 1/2 cup
  remains. Add the parsley.  While stirring the livers, add the bread
  crumbs a little at a time until the liquid combines with the crumbs
  to form a sauce.
  
  Recipe:  William Petronchak on AT&T's Interchange
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 19 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ice Cream & Lemonade Dessert
 Categories: Ice cream, Desserts
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    1/2    Gal vanilla ice cream
     15    Wafer (4 part) graham
           -crackers, crushed
    3/4 c  Sugar
      6 tb Margarine, melted
      1 cn Frozen pink lemonade
           -concentrate
 
  Remove the vanilla ice cream from the container and place in a large
  bowl on the counter to soften.
  
  While the ice cream softens, prepare the graham crust as follows:  In
  a bowl, combine the graham cracker crumbs, sugar, and melted
  margarine and mix well.
  
  In a 13- x 9-inch pan, press all but 1/4 cup of the crust mixture.
  Bake in a preheated, 350 degree F. oven for about 10 minutes.  Allow
  the crust to cool and then place it in the freezer.
  
  When the ice cream is soft (but NOT melted), add the can of lemonade
  concentrate and mix thoroughly.  Spread the ice cream/lemonade
  mixture over the cooled graham cracker crust and sprinkle the
  reserved crumbs over the top.  Cover and return to the freezer for
  several hours.
  
  Cut the pie into squares and serve when firm.
  
  Recipe:  Keith Bergman on AT&T's Interchange
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 19 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sarah's Sauteed Chicken Breast In Mushroom And Merlot Sau
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      4 tb Clarified butter (see
           -note)
      4    Boneless, skinless
           -chicken breasts
      2    Whole shallots, minced
      1 c  Shiitake mushrooms,
           -soaked according to
           -package
           Directions
      1 c  Demiglace (sauce can be
           -purchased as a dry mix)
    1/2 c  Merlot wine
      4 tb Unsalted butter
           Salt (to taste)
           Pepper (to taste)
      1 tb Fresh thyme
 
  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
  
  In a heavy saucepan, heat clarified butter.  Sear the chicken breast
  for 1 minute on each side and remove from pan.  Quickly saute the
  shallots until translucent.  Add the mushrooms and demiglace.
  Deglaze the pan with the merlot wine, reducing volume by half.
  
  Add the chicken back to sauce and bake 8 minutes.  Remove chicken
  breasts to serving platter.  Thicken sauce by stirring in the butter.
  Season with salt, pepper, and thyme.  Top the chicken breasts with
  sauce and serve.
  
  Makes 4 servings.
  
  NOTE:  To make clarified butter:  In a saucepan, melt butter.  Let
  stand, uncovered, for 2 to 3 minute s until the solids settle.  Skim
  off the clear liquid butter and discard the white milk solids.
  
  Per serving:  approximately 5 lean meat, 4-1/2 fat; 484 calories, 5 gm
  : carbohydrate, 34 gm protein, 35 gm fat, 220 mg sodium, 174 mg
  : cholesterol, 32 mg calcium and 2 gm alcohol
  
  Recipe:  Sarah's
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ginger-Garlic Chicken Drumsticks
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      3 lb (about) chicken drumsticks
    1/4 c  Sesame oil
      8    To 10  cloves garlic,
           -chopped
      4    Slice, (nickel-sized)
           -fresh ginger root, cut
           -in half, OR
      1 ts Ground ginger
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Teriyaki sauce
    1/2 c  Soy sauce
      1 c  Water
      1 tb Commercial Chinese
           -hoisin sauce (if desired)
 
  In large pot, brown drumsticks over medium heat. (All the drumsticks
  won't fit for browning at one time.)  Drain any grease from pan.
  
  In a bowl, mix together the sesame oil, garlic, ginger, pepper, sugar,
  teriyaki sauce, soy sauce, and water; add to pot.  Add the chicken
  and toss to coat in the liquid.
  
  Cook over medium-high heat for 20 to 25 minutes, or until chicken is
  cooked through, stirring often.  Remove chicken and set aside. (If
  you don't have hoisin sauce, chicken is done at this point.)
  
  Add the hoisin sauce to sauce in pot and cook sauce on high heat for
  10 minutes, until sauce starts to thicken.  Stir often or sauce will
  burn. Add the chicken and cook an additional 5 minutes, coating
  chicken with sauce. Remove slices of ginger.
  
  TO SERVE RIGHT AWAY:  Pour sauce on chicken.
  
  TO SERVE COLD:  Discard sauce (it gets gloppy).
  
  Make 6 servings.
  
  NOTE:  Figure 2 to 3 drumsticks per person and bring a damp cloth for
  cleanup.  These are finger-lickin  good, but messy.  The hoisin sauce
  makes a nice glaze on the chicken, but is not necessary. Most
  supermarkets carry the sauce in the Asian foods section.
  
  VARIATION:  If you prefer to grill or broil the chicken, first
  marinate it overnight with the same ingredients, but do not add the
  water. Include the hoisin sauce, if available.  The chicken gets much
  less of a garlic/ginger flavor when it's marinated this way, but it
  is extremely moist and tender.
  
  Per serving with sauce:  approximately 1-1/2 fruit, 5 lean meat, 1/2
  : fat; 405 calories, 25 gm carbohydrate, 36 gm protein, 17 gm
  : fat, 2390 mg sodium, 101 mg cholesterol, and 34 mg calcium
  
  Recipe:  Newspaper
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Meatless Lasagna
 Categories: Pasta, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1    Jar (24 oz) pasta sauce
           -or your favorite
           -homemade sauce
    1/2    Box (16 oz) lasagna pasta
      1    Egg
      1 tb Parsley flakes
      3 c  Ricotta cheese, shredded
    1/4 lb Fresh spinach, chopped
           Soy sauce
      1 c  Sharp cheddar cheese,
           -shredded
      1 c  Parmesan cheese, grated
 
  1.  In a pan, saute the onion and garlic.  Stir in the pasta sauce.
  
  2.  In pot, cook 9 lasagna noodles according to the package directions
    and rinse in cold water.
  
  3.  In a large bowl, blend the egg, parsley flakes, and Ricotta
  cheese.
  
  4.  In a 13- x 9-inch baking pan, place 3 of the lasagna noodles,
  1/3rd
    of the pasta sauce mixture over the noodles, and 1/3rd of the
    spinach over the sauce.  Sprinkle with soy sauce (Ha, the secret
    ingredient!).  Repeat the layers two more times.  Finish with the
    cheese and sprinkle with the grated parmesan cheese.
  
  5.  Bake the lasagna in a preheated, 375 degree F. oven for 50 minutes
    or until bubbly.
  
  VARIATIONS:
  
  MEAT:  Cook 2 pounds of Italian sausage in step 1, drain.  Add the
         sauteed onion and garlic and the pasta sauce.
  
  LOWER FAT MEAT:  Marinade 1 pound ground turkey in 2 cups of soy
  sauce, cook in step 1, drain.  Add the sauteed onion and garlic and
  the pasta sauce.
  
  Makes 12 herbivores or 4 guys servings.
  
  Recipe:  Peter Hsi on AT&T's Interchange
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 19 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Orange Chicken
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1    Whole chicken
      1 cn Frozen orange juice
    3/4 cn Water
           Thyme
           Sweet basil
           Garlic powder
           Black pepper
 
  Allow the frozen orange juice to thaw and mix the concentrate with the
  water.
  
  Wash the chicken thoroughly under running warm water.  This will
  loosen the skin.  Separate the skin from the meat by separating the
  skin under water throughout the chicken by allowing the water to
  expand the skin. Prevent the water from running out the tail or neck
  portions by closing them up with your hand.  Allow to drain and rest.
  
  Take the frozen juice mixture and pour into the pocket formed by the
  loosened skin, making sure you cover the entire chicken under the
  skin. Allow to drain into a separate bowl or cup for reuse.
  
  Sprinkle the thyme, basil, garlic powder, and pepper into the same
  cavity created by the separation of the skin from meat.
  
  In a metal bowl or  pan, place the chicken and cook in the oven or on
  the grill.  Halfway through the the cooking process, about 20 to 30
  minutes, pour the remaining orange juice over the top of the chicken.
  This step can be repeated as necessary to promote a golden glaze.
  
  Allow the chicken to cool slightly, about 10 minutes, slice and serve.
  
  Posted by:  Bruce Hill on AT&T's Interchange
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chinese Barbequed Pork
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Chinese, Meats
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2    (1-1/2 lbs ea) pork
           -tenderloins

MMMMM--------------------------MARINADE-------------------------------
      2 tb Light soy sauce
      2 tb Hoisin sauce
      1 tb Sherry
      1 tb Black bean sauce
  1 1/2 ts Gingeroot, minced
  1 1/2 ts (packed) brown sugar
      1    Clove garlic, minced
    1/2 ts Sesame oil
        pn 5 spice powder
 
  Trim any fat off the tenderloins; tuck ends under and tie each with
  kitchen string.  Place in a shallow glass dish.
  
  TO PREPARE THE MARINADE:  Whisk together the soy sauce, hoisin sauce,
  sherry, blackbean sauce, gingeroot, sugar, garlic, sesame oil, and
  five-spice  powder.
  
  Pour the marinade over tenderloins and turn to coat.  Cover and
  refrigerate for at least 2 hours or up to 24 hours; turn
  occasionally. Let stand for 30 minutes at room temp before cooking.
  
  Place tenderloins on rack in roasting pan, reserving marinade.  Pour
  1 cup water into pan.  Bake, basting generously four times, in a
  preheated, 375 degree F. oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a meat
  thermometer inserted at 20 degree angle registers 160 degree F. and
  the meat still has a hint of pink.
  
  Remove to a cutting board, and tent with foil.  Let stand for 10
  minutes.
  
  Remove the string.  Using a sharp knife, slice the pork diagonally
  into thin slices.
  
  Makes 6 servings.
  
  VARIATIONS:
  
  THAI BARBEQUE PORK:  Substitute fish sauce for the soy sauce, and lime
  juice for the sherry.  Increase the ginger root to 1 tablespoon.
  Substitute 1 tablespoon of chopped fresh coriander for the five-spice
  powder.
  
  SZECHUAN BARBEQUE PORK:  Substitute 1 teaspoon of Chinese chili paste
  for
                         five-spice powder.  Add 1 green onion, chopped.
  
  Recipe:  Kaitlin Young
      :  Posted by:  Linda Fields on IL_Cuisine
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brisket Chunk Wagon Stew
 Categories: Soup/stew, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 tb Bacon grease or
           -vegetable oil
      3 lb Beef brisket, fat
           -trimmed and cut into
  1 1/2    In cubes
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Black pepper, freshly
           -ground
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      2    Cloves garlic, minced
      4 c  Beef stock (preferably
           -homemade or canned
           Low-sodium broth)
      2 cn (4 oz ea) chopped mild
           -green chilies, drained
      2 lb Red-skinned potatoes,
           -scrubbed and cut into
      1    In pieces
      2 c  Fresh or thawed frozen
           -corn kernels
    1/4 c  Fresh cilantro
           -(coriander) or parsley,
           -chopped
      1 c  Flour
 
  In a large flameproof casserole or Dutch oven, heat the bacon grease
  over medium heat.  Season the beef brisket with salt and pepper.
  Working in batches to avoid crowding, add the brisket and cook,
  turning occasionally, until browned on all sides, about 8 minutes.
  Transfer the brisket to a plate.
  
  Add the onion and garlic to the casserole and cook, stirring often,
  until the onion is softened, about 4 minutes.  Stir in the beef
  stock. Return the brisket to the pot and add the chilies.  Bring to a
  simmer over high heat, skimming off any foam that forms on the
  surface. Reduce the heat to low, cover and simmer until the brisket
  is tender, about 2-1/2 hours.
  
  During the last 30 minutes, stir in the potatoes, corn, and cilantro.
  Remove from the heat and let stand 5 minutes.  Skim any fat from the
  top of the stew. (It's easier to remove the fat if the stew is cooled
  to room temperature, covered and refrigerated overnight.  Discard
  hardened fat from surface.  Reheat gently over low heat before
  proceeding.)
  
  In a small bowl, whisk 1 cup of the cooking liquid with the flour
  until smooth.  Stir into the stew and simmer until the sauce is
  thickened, about 3 minutes.  Season the stew with additional salt and
  pepper; serve hot. Freezes and reheats well.
  
  Makes 8 servings.
  
  Per serving:  2 vegetable, 2 bread/starch, 4 medium-fat meat, 1 fat;
  543 : calories, 38 gm carbohydrate, 37 gm protein, 27 gm fat, 509 mg
  sodium, : 114 mg cholesterol, and 41 mg calcium (Diabetic exchanges
  and nutrient : data calculated by Bea Krinke, St. Paul, a registered
  dietitian.)
  
  Recipe:  "National Cowboy Hall of Fame Chuck Wagon Cookbook, Authentic
      :  Recipes from the Ranch and the Range" by B. Byron Price
      :  (William Morrow & Co., Hearst Books, New York, 1995, hardcover,
      :  $20, 302 pages).
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange Mint Iced Tea
 Categories: Beverages
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      8 c  Water
           Orange juice (for ice
           -cubes
      8    Tea bags
     12    Or more fresh mint
           -leaves, divided
           Sugar (to taste)
           -(optional)
      1    Orange, cut in slices
           -and the slices in half
      1    Lemon, cut in slices and
           -the slices in half
 
  Pour the orange juice into an ice-cube tray and freeze to make ice
  cubes.
  
  TO PREPARE THE TEA:  Heat the 8 cups water to a boil.  Pour over tea
  bags and 6 mint leaves. (If sweetened tea is preferred, add a little
  sugar at this point and stir to dissolve.)
  
  Let the tea steep for about 10 minutes, then remove tea bags.  Cool
  tea completely and remove mint.  Refrigerate until it will be used.
  
  TO MAKE SUN TEA:  In a clear jar or pitcher, combine the tea and
  water and let stand in the sun for several hours.  Or, if you have
  more time, combine the tea bags with cold water and refrigerate for
  at least a day.
  
  TO SERVE THE TEA:  Pour it into a pitcher and add orange-juice ice
  cubes, 6 mint leaves and fruit slices. Or serve individually in tall
  glasses, each serving with a mint leaf, orange-juice cubes and slice
  of both lemon and orange.
  
  Makes about 6 to 8 servings.
  
  NOTE:  If the tea becomes cloudy when it is refrigerated, add a small
  amount of boiling water to it to clear it up.  Cloudiness can occur
  if the tea is not completely cool when refrigerated.
  
  Recipe:  Newspaper
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zia Bakery And Cafe Spelt Muffins
 Categories: Muffins
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      3 c  Applesauce
      3 c  Ripe bananas
  8 1/2 c  Spelt flour
    3/4 c  Canola oil
  3 1/2 tb Baking powder
      1 c  Apple juice concentrate
      2 ts Salt
      3 c  Blueberries
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
  
  In a large bowl, mix the applesauce, bananas, flour, canola oil,
  baking powder, apple juice, and salt until batter is smooth and well
  mixed. Add blueberries and mix briefly.
  
  Butter and flour muffin pan and fill cups three-fourths full.
  
  Bake 45 minutes for large muffins, 30 minutes for regular size
  muffins.
  
  Makes 30 to 36 muffins.
  
  Recipe:  Zia Bakery And Cafe
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Almond Shortbread
 Categories: Desserts, Breads
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    2/3 c  Sliced blanched almonds,
           -chopped
    1/2 lb (2 sticks) butter, at
           -room temperature
    1/2 c  Sugar
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Almond extract
      1    Lemon (large) zest
 
  In a saucepan over low heat, heat the almonds until they are lightly
  colored, stirring often to prevent burning.  Remove from heat.
  
  In mixing bowl, cream butter and sugar until smooth and creamy.  Add
  the flour, almond extract, and lemon zest; thoroughly combine.  Stir
  in toasted almonds by hand.
  
  Grease a 13- by 9-inch pan.  Using your fingers, pat dough firmly
  into pan. Bake in a preheated, 350 degrees F. oven for 30 minutes, or
  until lightly browned.  Immediately cut into bars. (If you wait until
  the bars are completely cool to cut them, they will crumble.)  For a
  little different shape, try cutting them in diamonds. (To do so, make
  5 cuts lengthwise down the long edge.  Make 8 or 9 other cuts on the
  diagonal.) Cool bars completely in pan, then remove.  Store in an
  airtight container.
  
  Makes 40 to 45 bars.
  
  NOTE:  This shortbread calls for zest, which is the outer, colored
  skin
       of citrus fruit (not the white pith).  Its fragrant oils add
       flavor to food.
  
  Recipe:  Newspaper
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asian Noodles With Pea Pods And Peanut Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Asian, Vegetables, Pasta
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 c  (about 1/2 lb)
           -pea pods (snow pea or
           -sugar snap)
      1 pk (about 5 oz)
           -cellophane noodles *
           Vegetable oil
    1/2    Head lettuce (such as
           -curly leaf), loosely
           Torn
      1    Cucumber, unpeeled, sliced
      1    Carrot, grated
           Peanut Dressing (see
           -recipe --
           ASIAN.002)
           Sprigs fresh cilantro,
           -chopped or torn
 
  *  Cellophane noodles, also called bean threads, are translucent
  threads made from the starch of green mung beans.  The noodles come
  packaged in dry form.  Many supermarkets now carry them in the Asian
  food section, and they also are available in Asian markets.  Other
  thin noodles could be substituted, including curly Japanese ramen
  noodles or vermicelli.
  
  Prepare the Peanut Dressing.
  
  Snap off the ends of the pea pods and remove the attached string, if
  necessary.  Blanch the pea pods by dropping into boiling water for a
  moment; then cool immediately with cold water.
  
  Prepare the noodles according to the package directions.  Toss with a
  little vegetable oil to prevent noodles from sticking together.  Set
  aside.
  
  TO PRESENT THE SALAD:  Line a bowl or platter with the lettuce.  Top
  with the cooked noodles, pea pods, cucumbers, and carrot.  Drizzle
  with the Peanut Dressing.  Garnish with the cilantro.
  
  Makes 6 to 8 servings.
  
  Recipe:  Newspaper
  
   : Submitted by: David Pileggi
  : Area: The Cooking Echo
  : Posted on: 15 Jul 95
  Submitted By HERMAN KELLY   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Colossal Brownie Ice Cream Sandwich
 Categories: Desserts, Kids, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Oats; Quick Or Old Fashioned
           -Uncooked
      3 tb Unbleached All Purpose Flour
      2 tb Brown Sugar; Firmly Packed
    1/3 c  Peanut Butter
      1 tb Margarine Or Butter

MMMMM--------------------------BROWNIE-------------------------------
      6 oz Semi-Sweet Chocolate Pieces;
           -1 Cup
    1/2 c  Margarine Or Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 lg Eggs
      1 c  Unbleached All Purpose Flour
    3/4 c  Oats; Quick Or Old Fashioned
           -;Uncooked
    1/2 ts Baking Powder
    1/4 ts Salt; Optional

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 qt Vanilla Ice Cream
 
  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.  Line two 8 or 9-inch round cake
  pans with aluminum foil, allowing the foil to extend over the sides
  of the pan.
   Spray with non-stick cooing spray or grease lightly.  For the
  topping, combine the oats, flour, and brown sugar, cut in the peanut
  butter and margarine until the mixture is crumbly, then set aside.
  For the brownie layers, in a medium saucepan, over low heat, melt the
  margarine and chocolate pieces, stirring frequently.  Remove from the
  heat and cool slightly.  Stir in the sugar and vanilla, blending
  well. Add the eggs, one at a time, blending well.  Combine the flour,
  oats, baking powder and salt, blending well, then add the mixture to
  the chocolate mixture, mixing well. Divide evenly between the
  prepared pans. Sprinkle each with half the reserved topping, patting
  it down gently. Bake 22-24 minutes for the 8-inch layers and 20-22
  minutes for the 9-inch layers, or until the center is set. DO NOT
  overbake! Cool completely, in the pans, on wire racks. Soften the ice
  cream in the refrigerator for about 15 to 20 minutes.  To assemble
  the sandwich, spread the ice cream over one of the brownie layers,
  while it is still in the pan.  Lift the second layer out of the pan
  and remove the foil.  With the topping side up, place the second
  brownie layer on top of the ice cream, pressing down gently. Cover
  with foil and freeze for several hours or overnight.  Remove from the
  freezer 10 to 15 minutes before serving.  Lift from the pan, using
  the foil edges and remove the foil totally.  Cut into 12 wedges.
  
  Nutritional Information Per Serving:
  
  Calories  380  Calories From Fat  180  Fat  20 Grams  Saturated Fat  7
  Grams  Cholesterol  55 Milligrams  Sodium  190 Milligrams
  
  From: Quaker Oats
  Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Whole Chicken in a Bag
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 ea Cloves garlic;crushed
      1 ts Whole thyme
      1 ea Juice of 1/2 lemon
      3 lb Whole chicken
      1 ea Salt and pepper to taste
      1 ea Cooking parchment paper
      1 ea Paper bag, lunch sack size
      1 ea Aluminum foil
 
  Prepare a dressing of the oil,garlic,thyme and lemon juice. Rub the
  bird with this dressing, and add a bit of salt and pepper. Tear off an
  18-inch-long piece of parchment paper, and carefully wrap up the
  chicken. Place the bundle in a paper bag, and then wrap in aluminum
  foil. Place the bundle on a rack in the oven. Bake at 375 F for 1
  hour and 15 minutes. From Jeff Smith's "The Frugal Gourmet" Formatted
  by Marge Nemeth-GNFK05B Submitted By RICH HARPER   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Archer Teachers Great Fish
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Fish fillets
           Flour
           Oil

MMMMM---------------------BASIC FISH BATTER--------------------------
      3 c  Boxed pancake mix
      3 c  Club soda
 
  The simplicity of imitating the original Arthur Treacher Fish is to
  whip together the boxed pancake mix (used dry from the box) with the
  club soda, till the batter becomes the consistency of buttermilk. You
  may have to add a little more club soda to achieve this consistency.
  (Perhaps a 1/2 cup more will do!)  Set it aside.
  
  Cut 2 to 3 pound fish fillets each in half, making a triangle shape
  of each half.  Moisten each in a bit of water.  Shake off excess
  water & coat lightly in plain flour.  Let pieces dry 3 or 4 minutes
  on waxed paper, without touching each other.  The floured coating
  acts as an adhesive, so that when you dip them each into the wet
  batter, the coating will not break apart nor fall off during frying.
  
  With tip of small sharp knife, pierce 1 floured piece of fish at a
  time & dip to coat evenly but lightly in prepared fish batter.  Drop
  at once into 3" depth of hot oil (385 - 400 degrees F) and fry only a
  few minutes each side, turning only once to brown each side.  Do NOT
  use tongs to remove fish from hot oil, or coating will break and fall
  apart. Spear pieces 1 at a time with tip of sharp knife & place on
  cookie sheet (ungreased) and keep pieces warm in 300 degrees F oven
  till all pieces have been fried.
  
  Serves 6 to 8.
  
  The CHIPS are imitated by cutting frozen "cottage Fries" each in half
  to a crescent shape & fried in the same hot oil, after frying the
  fish, just as you would frozen french fries.  OR prepare your own
  fries.
  
  Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Bucket In The Sky!
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Chicken fryer parts, cut
           -small
      2 pk Good Season's Italian Salad
           -Dressing Mix
      3 tb Flour
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Lemon Juice
      2 tb Butter or Margarine
      1 pt Corn oil
    2/3 c  Crisco solid shortening
      1 c  Milk
  1 1/2 c  Boxed pancake mix combined
           -with
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Sage, powdered
    1/4 ts Pepper
 
  Wipe Chicken pieces dry.  Make paste of first 5 ingredients.  Brush
  to coat chicken evenly with paste.  Cover skin-side and underside
  well. Stack pieces in large refrigerator container.  Cover or seal in
  foil. Refrigerate several hours or better yet -- overnight.
  
  1 and 1/2 hours before serving, heat oil and Crisco till melted in
  heavy saucepan.  Put just enough of this into 2 large heavy skillets
  that it covers the bottom of the pans 1" deep.  The shortening will
  have to be replaced as you remove the fried pieces and continue to
  fry other pieces. Once it is melted, just set it aside.
  
  Dip each paste covered piece of chicken first in milk and then into
  pancake mixture, having combined it as directed above with the last 3
  ingredients. Dust off excess and place skin-side down first in the
  very hot oil mixture, browning the pieces on each side till golden
  blond.
  
  Place browned pieces in shallow baking pans in single layer,
  skin-side up. Sopon remaining milk over pieces.  Seal with foil on 3
  sides o pan, leaving 1 side unsealed.  Bake about 40 minutes at 375
  degrees F -- or till chicken is fork tender.  Remove foil entirely
  and bake another 8 to 10 minutes or till coating is crispy.  Baste
  with milk and pan drippings ever few mintues.
  
  Serves 6 to 8.  Leftovers keep up to a week refrigerated.
  
  Big Bucket In The Sky as in Kentucky Fried Chicken
  
  Source: Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Big Buy Double Decker Hamburger
 Categories: Meats, Sandwich
      Yield: 4 sandwiches
 
      1 lb Ground chuck
      8    Hamburger Buns
      3 tb Big Buy Hamburger Sauce per
           -patty (see below)
           Lettuce, shredded
           American Cheese
           Pickles (optional)

MMMMM------------------BIG BUY HAMBURGER SAUCE-----------------------
      1 c  Mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Heinz Chili Sauce
    1/4 c  Ketchup
      3 tb Sugar
    1/2 c  Pickle relish & do NOT drain
      1 ds Garlic salt
 
  Divide ground chuck into 8 equal portions and shape into patties,
  keeping each quite thin.  Sear briskly on lightly greased hot grill
  or griddle, turning only once, till medium well.  Arrange each patty
  on bottom half of hamburger buns.  Apply 2 or 3 tablespoons of Big
  Buy Hamburger Sauce to each patty and then arrange a little shredded
  lettuce over each. Place one atop the other and a slice of American
  cheese over the top patty. Apply top of hamburger bun and serve at
  once. Makes 4 double-deckers.
  
  BIG BUY HAMBURGER SAUCE: Stir all ingredients together with fork.
  Refrigerate in covered container to use within 2 weeks. Makes about 2
  cups. (Recipe may be divided in half.)
  
  Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lone John Sliver
 Categories: Fish
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
  2 1/2 lb Fish fillets
           Oil
    1/2 c  Beer
    1/2 c  Self-rising flour

MMMMM-------------------------THE BATTER------------------------------
    2/3 c  Beer
    1/3 c  Lemon juice
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Bisquick
    1/2 c  Self-rising flour
 
  THE BATTER: In a 1 1/2 quart mixing bowl, with wire whisk, whip 2/3
  cup beer, lemon juice, egg, Bisquick, and 1/2 cup self-rising flour
  together till smooth. Then let it stand ten minutes at room
  temperature before using.  Meanwhile place two soup or cereal bowls
  on counter near the stove so that you can work quickly in coating
  food and getting it into the hot oil.
  
  In one small bowl put 1/2 cup beer and into the other put 1/2 cup
  self-rising flour.  Have a cookie sheet on hand.  Cover half of it
  with paper towels for draining the fried foods.  The other half leave
  plain for drying the coated food before you dip it into batter.
  
  Allow 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 lbs. fish fillets to serve 4 people.  Cut each
  fillet in half to resemble triangles.  Dip 1 piece at a time, first
  into beer. Let excess drip off. Coat lightly then in the self-rising
  flour.
  
  Place floured pieces on cookie sheet to dry 2 or 3 minutes.  Then
  spear piece with 3-tined fork or tip of sharp knife & coat in prepared
  batter...evenly but lightly, letting excess drip back into bowl of
  batter.
  
  Fry few pieces at a time in 385 to 400 degrees F oil, at least 2 1/2"
  to 3" deep in heavy saucepan or use electric fry pan with temperature
  control dial to regulate heat of oil.
  
  Allow about 3 or 4 minutes per side for each piece of batter-coated
  fish, turning once to brown other side.  Remove from oil with tip of
  sharp knife. Drain on paper towel.  Keep warm on cookie sheet in 300
  degree F oven till all pieces have been fried.
  
  SHRIMP-DEEP FRIED: Substitute large or jumbo shrimp preferably frozen,
  cooked, ready to serve shrimp, that have been completely thawed,
  following the Lone John Sliver recipe exactly, using the shrimp in
  place of the fish triangles.  Be sure to dip the shrimp 1st in the
  beer and then into the self-rising flour before coating in prepared
  batter.  Fry as directed for fish in above recipe.  1 pound serves 4.
  
  Lone John Sliver as in Long John Silver
  
  Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1975 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oven Fried Kentucky Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Self-rising flour
      1 tb Paprika
      2 pk Lipton Tomato Cup A Soup
           -powder
      2 pk Good Seasons Italian
           -Dressing mix powder
      1 ts Seasoned salt
           Pam or oil
    1/4 lb Margarine or Butter
      3 lb Fryer chicken
 
  In doubled plastic food bag combine well the flour, paprika, Lipton
  Tomato Cup A Soup powder, Good Seasons Italian Dressing mix powder
  and seasoned salt.
  
  Shake the mixture well to combine it in the bag, having twisted the
  end the bag tightly until the air inside the bag create an inflated
  balloon affect.
  
  Spray a jelly roll pan (10x15x3/4") with Pam or wipe it well with
  oil. Run a cut-up chicken fryer under cold water and let excess water
  drip off, or put all of the wet pieces of chicken into a colander to
  drain a few minutes.
  
  Dredge pieces in the flour mixture, by placing the pieces, one at a
  time, in the bag of seasoned flour and shaking it to coat each piece.
  Arrange the coated pieces, skin-side up on prepared pan.  Melt
  margarine or butter and use a 1" wide soft bristled pastry brush (or
  one from a paint store with soft hair bristles -- rather than plastic
  bristles) and dab the melted margarine over the floured surface --
  skin-side only -- of each piece of chicken.  When all of the melted
  margarine has been divided between chicken pieces, bake it uncovered
  ~- without turning the pieces -- 350 degrees F -- for 1 hour or till
  golden brown and tender.
  
  FOR CRISPY COATING:  After applying melted margarine, dust each piece
  with a few tablespoons more seasoned flour mixture and dab again in
  additional melted margarine before baking.
  
  Serves 4 to 6.
  
  Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tuna Macaroni Salad
 Categories: Fish, Pasta, Salads
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      2 lb Macaroni
      4 cn Tuna
     12    Eggs, Hard Cooked
      1 pt Mayonnaise
      1    Lettuce head

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
           Relish
           Pickle, chopped
           Onion, chopped
           Celery, chopped
           Tart Red Apple chopped
           Lemon Juice of one lemon
 
  The night before, boil macaroni for 10 minutes in 6 quarts of water.
  Boil eggs in 6 quarts of water for 15 minutes. Drain and refrigerate
  the macaroni and eggs until the next day.
  
  The next day, open tuna cans. Empty them into large bowl with
  macaroni. Chop eggs and any optional ingredients.  Add them to the
  bowl along with the mayonnaise.  Mix thoroughly.  Serve on lettuce
  leaves. Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wednesday's Hot & Juicy Hamburgers
 Categories: Meats, Sandwich
      Yield: 15 patties
 
      5 lb Lean ground beef
  3 1/2 oz Baby food strained veal
  3 1/2 oz Baby food strained beef
 10 1/2 oz Campbell's beef broth
      1 ts Onion salt
      1 ts Seasoned salt
    1/2 ts Lemon pepper
    1/2 ts Finely crushed dry minced
           -onions (use a hammer to
           -flatten them)
      2 tb Cup of Soup Tomato Flavor
           -Soup Powder
 
  Mix all of the ingredients together thoroughly, covering your hands
  with plastic food bags to knead it well.  Or dig right in like
  Grandma did, remember that fingers were made before forks!  Shape
  into patties by measuring out 2/3's cupful of mixture for each &
  keeping them about 1/2" thick & square in shape, about the size of a
  Graham cracker. The mixture makes about 15 patties, which can be
  individually wrapped and frozen, to be thawed about 30 minutes at
  room temperature or more quickly on "defrost" in the microwave oven
  per manufacturer's directions. They freeze well up to 6 months.  Do
  not refrigerate for more than 2 days.
  
  Wednesday's as in Wendy's
  
  Source:  Gloria Pitzer's Secret Fast Food Recipes 1976 reprinted 1985
  Submitted By SANDRA MAY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Lamb with Peppers & Aubergines
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, British isl, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     50 g  Butter; softened
      1 tb Chopped fresh oregano-=OR=-
      1 ts Dried Marjoram/oregano
      1 tb Whole grain Mustard
  1 1/8 kg Half leg Lamb
    450 g  Red peppers
    450 g  Aubergines
    100 ml Olive oil

MMMMM--------------------------OPTIONAL-------------------------------
      2 tb Chopped fresh oregano -=OR=-
           Chopped fresh parsley
 
  Beat the butter with the first lot of oregano/marjoram and the
  mustard. Trim lamb and cut slits 2 cm deep over the surface.
     Spread the butter all over the meat, and push it into the slits (I
  like to do this a couple of hours before cooking). Place on a wire
  rack that will fit over a roasting pan.
     Halve, core and deseed the red pepper then cut into chunks. Cut the
  aubergines into similar sized chunks. Pour the olive oil into the
  roasting tin and stir into the vegetables. (I used half an onion as
  well, and it worked well).
     Place the wire rack and lamb on top and roast at 200C (400F) mark
  6 for 20 mins per pound plus 20 mins for medium cooked lamb. Stir the
  vegetables twice during cooking.
     Turn off the oven and transfer the meat to a serving dish and
  leave in the turned off oven for 15 mins. If necessary, brown
  vegetables over a high heat, stirring all the time. Spoon the
  vegetables around the lamb. Stir in the oregano and serve immediately.
  Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Avocado & Cucumber Salad
 Categories: Appetizers, Caribbean, Salads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lg Cucumbers
           Salt
      2 ea Avocadoes
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 ea Lemon
      1 sm Garlic clove, pressed
           Black pepper
           Large lettuce leaves
 
  Peel the cucumbers, cut them in half lengthwise, & core with a melon
  cutter, discarding the pulp & the seeds.  Slice thinly & place in a
  bowl. Salt the slices & refrigerate for an hour.
  
  Cut the avocadoes in half along the narrow side & remove the seed.
  Peel & dice.  Combine with cucumber.
  
  Mix the oil with the lemon, garlic, pepper & additional salt if
  needed. Stir together with the avocado & cucumber & store in the
  refrigerator for at least 1 hour.  Serve cold on the lettuce leaves.
  
  Virginie & George Elbert, "Down-Island Caribbean Cookery"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Insalata Verde E Rossa (Red & Green Salad)
 Categories: Salads, Italian, Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Dandelion greens
      1 lg Bunch watercress
     12 lg Red radishes
           Salt
      6 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
           Salt & pepper
 
  Rinse the dandelion leaves & watercress.  Wash the radishes & remove
  the stems, leaves & roots.  Quarter, or if especially large, cut into
  eighths.
  
  Put dandelion leaves & radishes in a bowl, cover with cold water, add
  salt & leave for 1 hour.  Shortly before serving, drain & dry them &
  place in a serving bowl.  Add the watercress.
  
  Beat together the olive oil & red wine vinegar.  Pour over the salad
  & toss well.
  
  Carol Field, "Italy in Small Bites"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red & Green Salad
 Categories: Salads, Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ea Head chicory
    1/2 ea Head curly endive
      1 ea Head finocchio
      1 sm Head radicchio
      8 ea Radishes
      5 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
           Salt & pepper
 
  Slice the chicory across in thin rings.  Divide the endive into
  leaves & arrange in a salad bowl.  Cut the fennel into quarters &
  then slice each quarter thinly.  Mix the fennel & chicory & arrange
  on the endive leaves.
  
  Tear the radicchio into small pieces & place in the bowl.  Slice the
  radishes thinly & sprinkle on top of the salad.  Mix together the oil
  & vinegar.  Season well & pour over the salad.  Toss well & serve at
  once.
  
  Mary Norwak, "Salads"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spinach & Walnut Salad
 Categories: Salads, Side dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Spinach
      1 ts Salt
      6 ea Green onions
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 oz Walnuts
 
  Wash the spinach very well.  Remove the stems.  Shake the leaves to
  remove any surplus water & then pat dry with paper towels (or spin in
  a lettuce spinner).  Tear the leaves into large pieces & arrange on a
  shallow dish. Sprinkle with the salt, stir in thoroughly & leave to
  stand for 15 minutes. Drain & squeeze dry.
  
  Place the spinach in a bowl.  Chop the green onions finely & sprinkle
  in the bowl.  Mix together the oil & lemon juice & pour into the
  bowl. Toss lightly & sprinkle with chopped walnuts.
  
  Mary Norwak, "Salads"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flower Salad
 Categories: Salads, Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 ea Heads chicory
      4 oz Raddichio leaves
     18 ea Fresh lychees, peeled &
           -- cored
      3 tb Vegetable oil
      3 tb Raspberry vinegar
      1 ts Brown sugar
           Salt & pepper, to taste
 
  Separate chicory leaves.  Wash & drain.  Arrange around the edge of a
  large oval serving platter.  Separate the raddichio leaves.  Wash &
  drain & arrange overlapping, inside the chicory.
  
  Drain the lychees & pile in the centre of the platter.
  
  Whisk together the oil, vinegar, sugar & seasonings.  Pour evenly
  over the salad.  Serve.
  
  Elizabeth Brand, "Vegetables"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Caribbean Salad Platter
 Categories: Salads, Side dish, Fruit, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 c  Watercress
      3 lg Mangoes, pitted, peeled &
           -- cut into chunks
      2 ea 14 oz cans of hearts of palm
           -- drained, rinsed & sliced
      2 lg Tomatoes, cut into large
           -- chunks
    1/3 c  Lime juice
    1/4 ts Coriander
    1/4 ts Allspice
           Lime wedges for garnish
 
  Arrange watercress around the perimeter of a large platter.  Arrange
  alternating rows of mango, hearts of palm & tomatoes to fill platter.
  
  Combine lime juice, coriander & allspice in a small bowl.  Cover &
  refrigerate at least 30 minutes before serving.  Serve with extra lime
  wedges if desired.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" August, 1994
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orange & Mushroom Salad
 Categories: Salads, Appetizers, Vegetables, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 sm Endive, to serve
      3 ea Oranges, segmented
      1 bn Watercress sprigs
      4 oz Button mushrooms, sliced

MMMMM--------------------------DRESSING-------------------------------
      4 tb Vegetable oil
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Orange juice
           Salt & pepper
      1 ea Garlic clove, crushed
      1 tb Chives, snipped
      1 tb Black olives, chopped
 
  Mix together all the dressing ingredients except the olives.
  
  Line a dish with the endive leaves.  Arrange a ring of orange
  segments then a ring of watercress sprigs.  Just before serving,
  drizzle on about 1/3 of the the dressing.
  
  Stir the olives into the remaining dressing & toss in the mushrooms.
  Pile into the centre of the dish & serve.
  
  Pamela Westland, "Fruit"
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Great Gazpacho
 Categories: Soup/stew, Appetizers, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Vegetable or tomato juice
      1 md Onion, minced
      2 md Tomatoes, diced
      1 ea Green bell pepper, minced
      1 ea Garlic clove, crushed
      1 md Cucumber, diced
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Red wine vinegar
      1 ts Dried tarragon
      1 ts Minced fresh basil
      1 pn Ground cumin
      1 ds Hot sauce
      2 tb Olive oil
           Salt and pepper, to taste
 
  Combine all ingredients and chill for 2 hours.
  
  HINT: Out of time?  Forget all the mincing and chopping.  Cube the
  vegetables, then throw all of the ingredients into a blender or food
  processor and blend slowly until the vegetables are chunky and the
  soup is well blended.
  
  Ingrid Newkirk & PETA, "The Compassionate Cook"  Posted by Karen
  Mintzias Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Farmer's Gazpacho with Basil
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 ea Red onion, halved
      1 md Carrot, scrubbed
    1/2 lg Red bell pepper
      2 sm Pickling cucumbers, scrubbed
      3 lg Tomatoes, halved, juiced &
           -- seeded
    1/2 c  Fresh basil leaves
      1 lg Ear of corn,
           -- kernels separated
      2 c  Tomato juice
    1/2 ts Sugar
           Salt & pepper
           Hot pepper sauce
           Fresh basil leaves
 
  Finely chop onion, carrot, sweet red pepper and cucumbers. If using
  food processor, cut onion, carrot, sweet red pepper and cucumbers
  into 1-inch pieces. Place vegetables in processor work bowl fitted
  with metal blade. Finely chop, using quick on/off motion until
  vegetables are desired texture. Transfer to 2-quart mixing bowl.
  
  Puree tomatoes with basil until smooth in blender or processor work
  bowl (use same bowl used for vegetable chopping, without washing).
  Add puree to vegetables along with corn kernels, tomato juice and
  sugar. Season to taste with salt, pepper and hot pepper sauce. Stir
  well to combine.
  
  Serve chilled or gently reheated (try to retain crunch in
  vegetables). To serve, stir well, adjust seasonings to taste and
  garnish with basil leaves.
  
  Abby Mandel, "The Orange County Register". Posted by Gabi
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kathi Roll of Nizam
 Categories: Indian, Breads
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      3 c  All purpose flour
      2 ts Salt
      6 md Potatoes, boiled, peeled
           -- & mashed
      2 tb Coriander leaves
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
      1 ea Green chili, seeded, chopped
           -- Warm water for kneading
           Ghee, for shallow frying
 
  Sieve flour and 1 tsp salt in bowl. Rub in 2 tbsp of ghee or oil.
  Gradually add warm water. Mix well. Knead until soft. Place in a well
  greased bowl. Cover with damp cloth. Leave aside for 20 minutes.
  
  Knead again and divide the dough into 9 equal parts. Shape them into
  round balls. Roll out each into a round disc 7" (18 cm) in diameter.
  
  Heat a griddle. Place a rot on dry griddle. Then drizzle 1-2 tsp of
  ghee or oil around the edges. Do not allow it to becomes crisp.
  
  Mix together mashed potatoes. 1 tsp salt, chilies and coriander
  together. Divide into 9 parts.
  
  Stuff each roti with a portion of mashed potatoes. Roll it like a
  swiss roll. Secure with cocktail stick. (toothpick?)
  
  Cut 9 pieces of butter paper (wax paper) 4" X 4". Wrap each roll till
  half way with it/ Serve with mint chutney.
  
  Purobi Babbar, "Rotis & Naans of India: Traditional and Exotic of
  Rotis, Vegetarian & Non-Vegetarian Dishes"  Posted by Anne MacLellan
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Aluwala Roti
 Categories: Indian, Breads
      Yield: 6 roti
 
      2 c  Flour, whole wheat
      1 ts Salt
           Water for mixing
           Ghee for shallow frying

MMMMM------------------------FOR FILLING-----------------------------
      4 md Potatoes
      1 sm Onion, grated
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 ts Coriander leaves, chopped
 
  Sift flour with salt. Slowly add water. Mix well. Make a stiff dough.
  Cover with a damp cloth for 20 minutes. Boil potatoes, peel and mash.
  Add salt, onion, pepper and coriander. Mix well. Divide into 8
  portions. Knead dough well until smooth and pliable. Divide into 6
  round balls. Flatten each ball slightly. Put one portion of filling
  in centre. Close up completely. Shape into round balls again. Roll
  out each ball on a lightly floured board into a round disk 6" (15 cm)
  diameter. Cook one at a time on a hot griddle over medium heat. Put
  about 1 or 2 tbsp ghee around the edge. Turn gently. Cook until sides
  turn golden brown in colour. Serve with yogurt.
  
  Purobi Babbar, "Rotis and Naans of India" Posted, not tested yet by
  Anne MacLellan
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Double Chocolate French Silk Pie
 Categories: Chocolate, Pie/tart
      Yield: 8 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------SOURCE: BREAD1.ZIP--------------------------
  1 1/4 ea - cups chocolate wafer
           -crumbs
      1 ea - Tbsp sugar
    1/2 ea - tsp cinnamon
    1/4 ea - cup margarine, melted
      1 ea - 12 oz container whipped
           -topping with real cream,
           -thawed
      1 ea - 7 oz marshmallow creme
      2 ea - 1 oz squares unsweetened
           -chocolate, melted
      2 ea - Tbsp milk
 
  Combine crumbs, sugar, cinnamon and margarine. Reserve 1/4 cup crumb
  mixture; press remaining mixture onto bottom of 9" springform pan.
  Bake @ 325 degrees for 10 minutes. Cool. Spoon 3 cups whipped topping
  onto crust. With back of spoon, spread and shape into a shell; freeze
  until firm. Combine marshmallow creme, chocolate and milk, mixing
  with electric mixer or wire whisk until well blended; fold in
  remaining whipped topping. Pour into frozen shell; sprinkle with
  reserved crumbs. Freeze several hours or overnight. Makes 8 to 10
  servings.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By RESORT BBS  SUBJ COCO'S DBL CHOCOLATE PIE    On
  07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fast And Fit Clam Chowder Micro
 Categories: Microwave, Soup/stew, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      1 c  Leeks or onions; chopped
      1 c  Red and/or green bell pepper
           -diced
      2 ea Cans chopped clams in clam
           -juice (6-1/2 oz each)
      2 lb Potatoes; in 1/2"cubes
           -(6 medium)
 14 1/2 oz Can chicken broth
           -reduced sodium
      2 ts Dried thyme
      1 c  Low fat milk
     10 oz Pkg whole kernel corn
           -thawed and drained
    1/8 ts Cayenne pepper
           Salt & pepper to taste
 
  Place butter in 2-1/2 to 3 quart microwave safe bowl. Microwave on
  HIGH 1 minute. Add leeks or onions and bell peppers; microwave on
  HIGH 3 minutes. Drain juice from clams into microwaved vegetables,
  reserving clams. Stir in potatoes, broth and thyme. Cover with
  plastic wrap, venting one corner. Microwave on HIGH 20 minutes.
  
  With slotted spoon remove 4 cups cooked potatoes; set aside. Pour
  rest of contents of bowl into container of electric blender; add milk
  and blend until smooth. Return mixture to bowl. Stir in reserved
  clams and potatoes, the corn and cayenne pepper; season with salt and
  pepper.
  
  Microwave on HIGH 3 minutes until heated through. If desired, pass
  bowls of shredded Cheddar cheese, chopped parsley and/or crumbled
  cooked bacon to stir into soup.
  
  Makes 4 servings
  
  Nutritional Information Per Serving: (without optional toppings)
  Calories: 370 Fat: 7 g Cholesterol: 75 mg Sodium: 420 mg
  Carbohydrate: 65 g Fiber: 5 g Protein: 19 g
  
  Suggested Menu: Sesame breadsticks Butter lettuce, mushroom and sprout
  salad Frozen yogurt
  
  NOTE: Microwave cooking times are based on a 700 watt microwave.
  Adjust cooking times to your own oven.
  
  Source: National Potato Promotion Board Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MOPPING SAUCE FOR BARBECUE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Tex/mexican, Beverages
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Strong black coffee
    1/2 c  Worcestershire sauce
      1 c  Tomato catsup
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Salt
           Combine all ingredients and
           -simmer 30 minutes.  Stir
 
  frequently.  Store in a tightly covered jar in refrigerator until
  needed. Heat gently before using*.  This is wonderful, too, for oven
  roasts of pork, etc. [*Note: We add about half a can of beer at this
  point. K.B.] From:  THE WIDE, WIDE WORLD OF TEXAS COOKING by Morton
  G. Clark, Bonanza Books, New York. 1970.  LCC# 70-99574 Posted by:
  Karin Brewer, Cooking Echo, 12/92
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: North Carolina Type Barbeque Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------YIELD: 2 SERVINGS--------------------------

MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
      1 c  White vinegar
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Tabasco sauce
           Black pepper, freshly ground

MMMMM-------------------------DIRECTIONS-----------------------------
      1 c  Cider vinegar
      1 tb Red pepper flakes, crushed
           Salt (to taste)
 
  In a non-corrosive container, combine all ingredients and mix well.
  Makes 2 cups. Submitted By EARL SHELSBY On WED OCT 06 1993 13:16:16
  
  Submitted By PAT STOCKETT   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew, Fish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Salmon fillets
      4 sl Bacon
    3/4 c  Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Celery; chopped with leaves
      2 c  Water
      1 c  Potatoes; raw diced
    1/2 c  Carrot; diced
     16 oz Can tomatoes
    1/3 c  Tomato sauce
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/8 ts Thyme; dried
    1/8 ts Marjoram; dried
           Pepper, cayenne, garlic
           -powder to taste
      1 tb Parsley; minced, fresh
 
  Remove bones and skin from fish; cut fish into 1-inch pieces.  Cut
  bacon into 1/2-inch pieces. In a large frying pan fry bacon over
  moderate heat until crisp, turning frequently. Add onion and celery
  and cook stirring over moderate heat until tender and translucent.
  Set aside. In a large saucepan boil potatoes and carrots until
  softened, about 5-6 minutes. Cut tomatoes into bit-sized piece. Add
  tomatoes, tomato liquid from can, the onion mixture and all remaining
  ingredients except the fish and the parsley to the onions. Bring to a
  boil; reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for about 20 minutes.
  Add fish; cover and simmer for another 10 minutes, until fish flakes
  and is tender. Adjust the seasoning. Garnish each serving with a
  sprinkle of parsley. Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Coconut Pound Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      3    Sticks of margarine
      3 c  Flour
    1/4 ts Baking powder
      5    Eggs
      3 c  Sugar
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Coconut
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Cream margarine and sugar until fluffy.  Add 1 egg at a time.  Add
  vanilla, flour and milk alternately, beginning and ending with flour.
  Bake in a 350 degree oven in a tube pan for 1 hour and 20 minutes.
  Randy Rigg Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cashew Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  1 1/2    Sticks of margarine
    2/3 c  Sugar
      1 tb Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Crushed potato chips
 
  Cream margarine and sugar.  Add flour and vanilla.  Stir in chips and
  nuts. Form into 1 inch balls, mash with fork.  Bake at 325 degrees
  for 15 to 18 minutes. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duckling with Apple Stuffing - Country Living Holidays
 Categories: Holiday, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    5 1/2 to 6-lb ready-to-cook
           -duckling, or 2 3 to 3 1/2
           -lb ready-to-cook wild ducks
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2    Stalks celery, thinly sliced
  1 1/2 c  Coarsely chopped onion
      1 tb Butter or margarine
      3 md Apples, washed and
           -coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Water
      3 tb All-purpose flour
 
  1. Rinse duckling or wild ducks; drain well. Sprinkle with salt and
  pepper, inside and out.
  
  2. In a medium skillet, saute celery and onions in butter until
  vegetables are translucent. Stir in apples and raisins. Heat oven to
  350'F.
  
  3. Place duckling or ducks on a rack in a roasting pan. Pour water
  into pan. Stuff neck and body cavities with apple stuffing; fasten
  shut with toothpicks. Bake duck until tender and golden brown-about 1
  1/2 to 2 hours.
  
  4. Remove duck to serving platter. Strain broth into a measuring cup;
  re- move fat and add water, if necessary to make 1 1/2 C. Beat flour
  into broth until smooth. Bring mixture to boiling in a medium
  saucepan. Cook, stirring, until thickenedabout 2 to 3 minutes. Serve
  with duck.
  
  Country Living Holidays/92  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gambler's Duck
 Categories: Wok, Chinese, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    (5-pound) duck
      2 oz Ginger; minced
    1/2 c  Minced spring onion
      4 c  Vegetable oil
     12    Chinese pancakes
      1    Cucumber; thinly sliced
      2 bn Spring onions
      1 c  Plum sauce
 
  Remove the duck's innards and clean it. Smear the duck with ginger and
  minced onion. Steam in a large pot for 3 hours. Remove the duck. Heat
  the cooking oil in a wok until it is very hot and carefully insert
  duck. Fry for 10 minutes or until golden brown and crisp to the
  touch. Carve the duck into bite-size pieces and place onto steamed
  pancakes with spring onion, cucumber slices, and plum sauce.
  
  Temperature(s): HOT Effort: AVERAGE Time: 03:30 Source: MR. CHOW
  Comments: EAST 57TH STREET, MANHATTAN. Comments: WINE: PINOT GRIGIO.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peking Duck
 Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    4-1/2 to 5 lb duck
      1 ts Salt
      8    Green onions
      2    (1/4 in.) sliced gingeroot
      3 tb Honey
      2 tb Cornstarch
      1 cn Oven-ready biscuits
      1 sm Can plum sauce
 
  A day in advance, clean duck inside & out, dry thoroughly. Season
  inside with salt. Tie together stem ends of 2 green onions, place
  inside duck cavity with gingeroot.  Bring edges of tail opening
  together, stitch with a length of fine wire. Attach another wire to
  neck as a handle. Mix 1 qt. water with honey in large wok or small
  turkey roasting pan, bring to boil. When boiling, stir in cornstarch
  dissolved in 1/4 cup cold water. Continue to stir to consistency of a
  thin stream. Lower heat. Holding duck by neck wire, dip into honey
  mixture 3-4 times to coat on all sides. Remove duck, suspend over
  container in cool place. Set an electric fan towards duck to help dry
  the skin. Let duck drip-dry overnight.
  
  Next day: preheat oven to 450 F. Place duck breast side up on flat
  rack in roasting pan. Roast 30 minute. Reduce heat to 300 F, turn
  duck over. Roast 30 more minutes. Turn duck breast side up again,
  roast for final 30 minutes.
  
  Remove biscuits from can, divide each biscuit in 1/2. Bring 2 in.
  water to boil in bottom of steamer. Place biscuits in container above
  water, cover, & steam 5 minutes. Thinly slice stems of remaining 6
  onions into 2-in. diagonal strips. Divide sliced onion between 4
  butter plates, place 1 tsp. plum sauce on each plate. Prepare duck
  for serving by cutting off drumsticks & wings & placing on platter in
  position whole duck should be. Carefully slice off all skin pieces of
  about 1 and 2 inches, lay them aside. Slice same size pieces of meat
  from bone. Place all carved meat on platter, cover with skin pieces
  on outside to make presentation look like a whole duck.
  
  Eat by making sandwich of onion, plum sauce, duck, and skin.
  
  Temperature(s): HOT Effort: AVERAGE Time: 24:00 Source: MADAME WU'S
  GARDEN Comments:  WILSHIRE BOULEVARD, LOS ANGELES Comments: WINE: DRY
  WHITE Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Mallard with Root Vegetables - Country Living Holid
 Categories: Holiday, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Small carrots, peeled
           -and trimmed
      1 lb Small parsnips, peeled and
           -trimmed, or medium-size
           -parsnips, cut into 3
           -by 1/2-inch sticks
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground black pepper
      2    3-lb farm raised
           -ready-to-roast mallard
           -ducks
      2 sm Apples, quartered
      1 c  Cranberry juice cocktail
    1/2 c  Dry red wine
    1/4 c  Sugar
      8    Whole cloves
      2    Bosc pears, peeled, halved,
           -and cored
      1 sm Onion, finely chopped
    1/2 c  (1 stick) unsalted butter,
           -cut up
 
  1. In 4-quart saucepan, heat 2 inches water to boiling. Add carrots
  and parsnips; cover and return water to boiling. Simmer root
  vegetables over low heat 15 minutes to partially cook. Remove root
  vegetables with slotted spoon to a small baking pan (Set aside pan of
  cooking water.) Add oil, 1/8 t salt, and 1/8 teaspoon pepper to
  vegetables; toss and set aside.
  
  2. Remove necks, giblets, and discard any fat from duck cavities.
  Rinse ducks, necks, and giblets; pat dry. To reserved pan of cooking
  water, add necks and giblets of ducks and remaining salt and pepper.
  Heat to boiling; simmer covered, over low heat 45 minutes.
  
  3. Heat oven to 400'F. Insert 2 apple quarters into neck and body
  cavities of each duck; twist wings back and under ducks to hold neck
  skin in place. Tie legs of each duck together. With fork, pierce
  breast skin. Arrange ducks, breast sides down, on wire rack in large
  roasting pan. Roast ducks 15 minutes with pan of root vegetables.
  Turn ducks and continue to roast 15 to 25 minutes longer or until
  breast meat is set but still red and moist when cut in the center of
  the thickest part.
  
  4. Meanwhile, in 2-quart saucepan, heat cranberry juice, wine, sugar,
  and cloves to boiling. Add pears; cover and return to boiling. Simmer
  pears over low heat 7 to 10 minutes or just until fork tender.
  Transfer pears to plate. Strain and reserve 3 /4 C pear poaching
  liquid.
  
  5. Drain juices from body cavities of ducks into roasting pan. Discard
  apple quarters. Transfer ducks and root vegetables to platter; cover
  and keep warm. Pour giblet broth into roasting pan; heat to boiling,
  stirring to loosen browned-on bits. Strain broth mixture into large
  measuring cup; discard fat on top and pour 3/4 C broth into skillet.
  Add onion and cook over high heat 1 minute. Add 3/4 C reserved pear
  poaching liquid. Boil rapidly until mixture is reduced to about 2 /3
  C or a syrupy consistency. Turn heat to low and add butter, stirring
  until it blends in. Pour sauce into a pitcher. Serve with pears.
  
  Country Living Holidays/92  Scanned & fixed by Di Pahl & <gg>
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sai Wo Duck
 Categories: Chinese, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 md Duckling, dressed
           Soy sauce; for duckling
      2    Stalks celery
      1    Whole green onion
      4    Thin slices ginger root
      5    Chinese black mushrooms,
           -presoaked
      2    Pieces dried mandarin orange
           -peel(size of a half-dollar)
           -presoaked
      5    Thinly sliced pieces
           -bamboo shoots
     10    Star anise seeds
  1 1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Sugar
      1 ds Pepper
      1 ts MSG (optional)
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Soy sauce
           Chinese parsley
           Vegetable oil (for frying)

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Loose lettuce leaves
 
  This dish will require a good deal of time to prepare but will turn
  out well.
  
  Rub soy sauce over duckling. Boil enough oil to cover the bird in
  large deep-fry pan. Add duck, fry until entire bird is well-browned.
  Remove, drain on absorbent toweling. Use sharp cleaver to slash duck
  from breast to lower belly. Don't cut through bone. Place duck in
  pan, stuff cavity with celery, onion, ginger root, black mushrooms,
  orange peel, bamboo shoots, anise, 1 tsp. salt, sugar, pepper, & MSG.
  Distribute evenly. Place on platter, elevate in a steamer. Cover,
  steam for 2-1/2 hrs. Make sure water is replenished as it evaporates.
  Remove platter, allow duck to cool. Discard all ingredients except
  bamboo shoots & mushrooms. Save all juices for gravy. Carefully
  remove wings & legs. Gently separate flesh from carcass with hands,
  starting from slash & keeping skin intact.
  
  Be sure not to make any more holes in skin, & to keep bird in its
  natural shape.(Carcass will make good soup.) Spread duck, meat side
  up, on a deep platter. De-bone the legs, place w/ wings. Spread
  mushrooms & bamboo shoots on duck meat. Replace in steaming utensil &
  steam again 20 minutes. Remove. Line large serving platter with
  lettuce leaves. Turn platter with duck upside-down so that duck rests
  on leaves, skin side up. Pour cooking juices into saucepan. There
  should be 2 cups liquid. Bring to boil, on high heat. Add cornstarch,
  1 tbs. soy sauce, 1/4 tsp. salt. Stir continuously until gravy
  thickens. Pour gravy over whole duck. Garnish with Chinese parsley &
  serve immediately.
  
  Chopsticks are recommended.
  
  Temperature(s): HOT Effort: DIFFICULT Time: 04:00 Source: KAN'S
  Comments: GRAND ST., SAN FRANCISCO Comments: WINE:WAN FU WHITE WINE
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Steaming Eggs
 Categories: Breakfast, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------EGGS IN THE STEAMER-------------------------
 
  Using steamer basket, eggs may be cooked in the shell or cracked into
  cups.
  
  Using rice bowl, eggs may be poached or scrambled.
  
  IN THE SHELL For Soft Cooked eggs, place from 1 to 12 eggs in the
  steamer basket. Add 1/2 cup water to reservoir. Cover and steam for
  10 - 12 minutes.
   For Hard Cooked eggs, place from 1 to 12 eggs in the steamer basket.
  Add 1 cup water to reservoir. Cover and steam for 19 - 22 minutes.
  
  EGGS-IN-A-CUP Crack from 1 to 4 eggs into individual size heat proof
  custard cups(s). Season with salt, pepper and butter or margarine if
  desired.
  
   For Soft Cooked eggs, add 1/2 cup water to reservoir, cover and
  steam from 10 - 12 minutes.
   For Hard Cooked eggs, add 1 cup water to reservoir, cover and steam
  from 19 - 22 minutes.
  
  POACHED Step 1. Pour 2 cups water in rice bowl. Add 1/2 cup water to
  reservoir and steam 10 to 12 minutes to heat water in rice bowl.
   Step 2. Crack egg in small bowl, slide into hot water in rice bowl
  (holds up to 4). Add 1/2 cup water to reservoir and steam 10 to 12
  minutes or until poached to desired hardness.
  
  SCRAMBLED Beat together 6 eggs and 2 tablespoons milk in rice bowl.
  Season with salt and pepper. Add 1 cup water to reservoir, cover and
  steam 19 to 22 minutes. Stir eggs half way through cooking time.
  
  Source: Rival Automatic Steamer And Rice Cooker Booklet Typos by
  Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GARLIC CHICKEN WITH GARLIC, GARLIC
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
MMMMM----------------FRUGAL GOURMET COOKS W/WINE---------------------
           -posted by Gaye Levy DTXT63A
      1    Whole frying chicken (3 lbs)
     40    Unpeeled garlic cloves (!!)
           Salt & Pepper to taste
    3/4 c  Dry white wine
 
    Pat the chicken dry.  Rub inside and out with one split clove of
  garlic. Lightly salt and pepper. Preheat oven to 400~. Place chicken
  on a roasting rack in a baking pan and arrange cloves of garlic
  around the pan. Place in oven and reduce heat to 350~. Bake 20
  minutes then pour wine over chicken. Baste again in 10 minutes and
  again 10 minutes later. Roast a total of 1 hour.
    According to Jeff Smith: "My friends serve this chicken on a
  platter with the garlic on the side.  In this way, you can squirt the
  cooked garlic cloves onto bread, rolls, or potatoes."
    According to Gaye:  I have not tried this.  I don't have the guts!!
  From: Gaye Levy                       Date: 30 Apr 94
  Submitted By DALE SHIPP   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Powter Blueberry Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Fruit, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  All purpose flour
    3/4 ts Salt
      3 tb Sugar
      2 ts Double acting baking powder
      1 lg Whole egg; lightly beaten
  1 1/2 ts Veg oil; preferably canola
  1 1/4 c  1% milk
      1 c  Frozen blueberries
 
  Measure and sift together the first 4 ingredients.  If you don't have
  a sifter, gently shake the ingredients thru a fine mesh strainer.
  
  Combine the next 3 ingredients in a seperate bowl.
  
  Place the frozen blueberries in a third bowl.  Coat the blubs with 1T
  of the dry ingredients.  Do not let them thaw.  This will prevent the
  blueberries from turning the entire batter blue.
  
  Combine the wet and dry ingredients into one bowl.  Mix together
  using a fork.  Do not overmix the batter because it will make the
  pancakes tough. There should be small lumps visible in the batter.
  
  Add the blueberries to the mix and stir in just enough to incorporate.
  
  Preheat a large nonstick frying pan or griddle over med heat.
  
  Drop 1/4c of batter per pancake onto the skillet.  When the top of the
  pancake is covered with little air bubbles, turn it over.  When the
  second side is golden, remove from pan and serve.
  
  Options:  Replace blueberries with 1 banana, thinly sliced; 1 apple,
  cored and chopped into small pieces with 1t cinnamon (the apple needs
  to be sauteed a little in water to soften); strawberries; raspberries.
  
  14% cals from fat.
  
  My note:  These are thin, but are already my kids favorite.  Husband's
  favorite too.  A nice flavor!
  From Food, by Susan Powter Posted by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Powter Very Corny Corn Muffins
 Categories: Muffins, Vegetables
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Unbleached flour
      1 c  Yellow cornmeal
      4 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 lg Whole egg
      2    Egg whites
  1 1/4 c  1% milk
      2 tb Canola oil
      1 c  Canned cream corn
 
  Preheat oven to 425.
  
  In a bowl, combine dry ingredients. In another bowl, combine egg, egg
  whites, milk, oil, and corn. Stir wet ingredients into dry until they
  are just moist.  Do not overmix. Lightly grease a muffin tin or use
  12 paper muffin cups or use a nonstick muffin tin. Spoon mixture into
  cups.
  
  Bake in oven 20-25 mins, until muffins are golden brown.
  
  18% cals from fat.
  
  My note:  Made these with chili (or bean stew if Wes is reading, since
  there was no meat).  Spooned it right on the muffin instead of using
  margerine.  It was great!  Kids wolfed em too!
  From Food by Susan Powter Posted by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Powter French Toast
 Categories: Breakfast
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Eggs
      2 lg Egg whites
      1 c  1% milk
    1/2 ts Vanilla extract
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      8    Slices challah bread, cut
           -3/4 inch thick; or you
           -may sub fresh white or
           -Italian bread
 
  Beat the eggs and egg whites together.
  
  Add the milk, vanilla extract, and cinnamon to the eggs and mix well.
  
  Soak the sliced bread in the egg mixture for approx 5 mins, until the
  mixture is absorbed.
  
  Preheat oven to 350.  Arrange bread on a nonstick baking sheet.  Bake
  for approx 15 mins, until bread is lightly browned. Or, fry slices in
  a nonstick frying pan.
  
  Options:  Great with powdered sugar, sugar and cinnamon, jellies,
  maple syrup, lemon and powdered sugar, orange and powdered sugar,
  fruits, chocolate sauce, fruit pie fillings and nonfat ice cream.
  
  21% cals from fat
  
  My note:  I dip the slices in the mixture in a bowl, then pour any
  remaining over to soak in.  This stuff is really good!
  From Food, by Susan Powter Posted by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Appetizer Pizza
 Categories: Kids, Appetizers
      Yield: 14 servings
 
      1 cn 7.5 oz buttermilk biscuits
      1 md Onion; cut in rings
      1 c  Zucchini; chopped
      4 oz Mushrooms, can; drained
      2 tb Margarine
      8 oz Cream cheese; softened
    1/4 c  Milk
      1    Egg; beaten
    1/2 ts Salt
 
    Separate each biscuit into two layers.  Place on bottom and sides of
  greased 12-inch pizza pan, pressing together to form crust.  Saute
  onions, zucchini and mushrooms in margarine.  Combine cream cheese,
  milk, egg and salt, mixing until well blended.  Stir in vegetables;
  pour over crust. Bake at 400 F., 20 to 25 minutes or until crust is
  golden brown. Serve warm. Source:  Philadelphia Brand Cream Cheese
  Cookbook Typos by Elizabeth Wood. Submitted By ELIZABETH WOOD   On
   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Refrigerator Fruit Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      1 c  Pitted dates
      1 c  Candied red cherries
      1 c  Candied pineapple
      1 c  Whole pecans
      1 c  Whole English walnuts
      1 c  Brazil nuts, cut in several
           Pieces
  2 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 lb Butter
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  White sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 sm Eggs
    1/2 ts Soda
 
  Mix fruit and nuts together in a large bowl.  Cream butter and sugars
  together and then add salt, vanilla and eggs.  Beat well.  Mix the
  soda with a small amount of flour and add to the above mixture.
  Gradually add the remainder of the flour.  Then stir in the fruit and
  nuts. Cool in the refrigerator.  Then form into 4 rolls.  Wrap in
  waxed paper. Store in refrigerator or freezer until ready to use.
  Bake in a 350 degree oven for about 10 minutes. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spiced Baked Sweet Potatoes II
 Categories: Appetizers, Snacks, Vegetables, Potatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 md Sweet potatoes
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/4 ts Ginger powder
      1 tb Soy sauce
 
  Wash & scrub potatoes.  Cut into sticks & set aside.
  
  Mix together oil & spices.  Dip the potatoes into the mixture &
  spread onto a cookie sheet.  Bake at 400F for 30 to 40 minutes,
  stirring half way through cooking.
  
  "Vegetarian Times" October, 1991
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pecan Pie {Fredericksburg}
 Categories: Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 pie
 
      5    Eggs
      1 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 c  Corn syrup
    1/2 ts Salt
  1 1/2 ts Vanilla
  1 1/2 c  Chopped pecans
      6 tb Melted butter
 
  Beat eggs and sugar.  Add corn syrup, salt, vanilla, chopped pecans
  and butter.  Mix well.  Pour into unbaked 9-inch pie shell and bake
  until filling is set, about 1 hour and 15 minutes at 325 F.
  
  ~ Mrs. Ruben Moellering typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pumpkin Pie {Fredericksburg}
 Categories: Vegetables, Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 pie
 
      1    Egg
      1 c  Sugar
      1 tb Constarch
  1 1/2 c  Pumpkin
      1 ts Ginger
      1 c  Milk
    1/2 ts Salt
 
    Mix sugar and cornstarch and add to beaten eggs.  Add the hot,
  mashed pubpkin and then the milk.  Mix well and pour into an unbaked
  pie shell. Bake at 350 F about 35 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. August Weber typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Cheese Glaze
 Categories: Desserts, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 cup
 
      1    3 oz. pkg cream cheese, soft
      2 ts Milk (to 2-1/2 ts.)
      1 ts Vanilla extract
        ds Salt
  1 1/2 c  Sifted powdered sugar
 
     Beat cream cheese at medium speed with an electric mixer until
  fluffy. Add milk, vanilla, and salt; beat until smooth.  Add powdered
  sugar gradually, beating until smooth.
  
  Recipe from Southern Living Magazine   Sept. 1994 typed and posted by
  teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Swedish Cookies
 Categories: West europe, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 c  Sugar
      1 lb OR 2 cups butter or marg.
      1    Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
      5 c  Flour
 
    Cream sugar and butter or margarine well.  Add egg and beat well.
  Add vanilla.  Mix well.  Add flour gradually until well blended.
  Shape with cookie press (sic)or ungreased cookie sheet.  Bake at 350
  for 5 to 10 minutes depending on thickness.
  
  ~ Mrs. Max Schramm typed and posted by teri chesser 7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Zimtsterne (Cinnamon Stars)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 lb Sifted sugar
      6    Egg whites
      1 lb Almonds
    3/4 ts Cinnamon
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
 
     Grind almonds fine with brown skin left on.  Stir the sugar and
  lemon rind into the beaten egg whites, and continue beating for 15
  minutes, then add the cinnamon and mix.  Reserve a small part of this
  mixture for top of cookies, then to the large portion, add the
  almonds. Roll out about 1/4-inch in thickness, using only as much
  flour as necessary. Cut with star-shaped cutter, brush each cookie
  with the reserved egg white mixture. Place on well-greased baking
  sheet and bake at 300 until light brown.
  
  ~ Mrs. Meta Roehm - typed and posted by teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Preffernuesse (Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 80 lg.soft
 
      2 tb Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      4 ts Cinnamon
      2 ts Cloves
      2 ts Nutmeg
        pn Black pepper
      4    Eggs
      3 c  Flour WITH
      2 ts Baking powder added
      1 c  Chopped pecans
 
  Cream butter and sugar.  Mix cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and pepper and
  add to creamed mixture.  Add eggs, flour and baking powder, and pecans
  tomixture.
  
  Drop cookies on ungreased cookie sheet and bake at 350 for 12 - 15
  minutes.
  
  This makes 80 large soft cookies or about 156 small cookies of harder
  texture.
  
  ~ Mrs. Henry J. Schmidt - typed and posted by teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Susser Reis (German Milk Rice)
 Categories: Aust/german, Desserts
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Washed rice
      4 c  Water
      1 pt Rich milk
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter
      2    Egg Yolk
 
  Boil rice until tender.  Drain off water.  Add milk, sugar and
  butter. When done, remove from fire, and carefully beat in yolks of
  eggs. Turn into dish and sprinkle liberally with sugar and cinnamon.
  (Egg yolks may be omitted.)
  
  ~ Mrs. H. F. Ransleben
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Christmas Treats (Cookies)
 Categories: Aust/german, Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    3/4 c  Butter or margarine
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Almond extract
      1 pk 3-oz. cream cheese
  1 1/2 c  Sifted flour
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Oatmeal
    1/2 c  Chopped pecans
 
     Beat the butter, cream cheese, sugar and almond extract until
  creamy. Sift flour and salt together, stir into creamed mixture until
  well blended. Add oatmeal and pecans.  Chill dough 1 hour.  Take a
  small smount of dough and roll into finger thick 4-inch lengths, form
  into wreaths or balls. Decorate with slivers of read and creen
  candied cherries or sprinkle with colored sugar.  Bake at 300 25
  minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. Werner Feller typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Good Sugar Cookies {Fredericksburg}
 Categories: Cake/cookie
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Brown sugar
      1 c  White sugar
      1 c  Shortening or margarine
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Vanilla
      2    Eggs
      4 c  Flour
      1 ts Soda dissolved in 2 Tb vine-
           -- gar
 
     Cream sugar and shortening; add eggs, salt, soda in vinegar, and
  vanilla.   Mix well.  Add flour.  Shape into balls, flatten, fip top
  side in sugar.  Bake on greased cookie sheet at 350 for 10 - 12
  minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. George Garretson typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wiener Zollen (W/citrus Flavor)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 cervings
 
      1 c  Sugar
      3    Eggs
           Grated rind of 1 lemon
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Ground cardamon
    1/2 c  Finely chopped citron (opt)
      1 c  Chopped pecans
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
 
     Beat eggs thoroughly; add sugar gradually and continue beating.
  Grind or pulverize cardamon seed; sift flour, baking powder and
  spices several times and add to mixture.  Blend and drop from
  teaspoon into sugar; roll in sugar and place on greased cookie sheets.
  
     Bake at 325 about 15 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. Wm. Weyrich - typed and posted by teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Springerle (Anise Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      4 c  Flour
      4 lg Eggs
      2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Butter
           Anise seed OR
      4    Drops anise oil
    1/2 ts Baking powder
 
  Beat eggs thoroughly; add sifted sugar and butter.  Beat for 15
  minutes. Add enough sifted flour to make a stiff dough.  Roll out
  about 1/2-inch thick.  Sprinkle with flour and press the patterns on
  the dough.
  
  Separate the cakes with a dough cutter and place on a board covered
  with anise seed or use 4 drops of anise oil stirred into the dough.
  
  Keep in a cool dry place overnight.  In the morning bake, in a
  moderate oven, 350, a light brown about 12 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. O. W. Striegler typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Weisser Lebkuchen {cookies}
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Pecans
    1/4 ts EACH salt, grated lemon
           Rind, AND cardamon seed
    1/2 ts EACH cinnamon and nutmeg
      3 c  Flour
 
  Stir sugar and eggs for 1/2 hour, adding one egg at a time.  Add
  spices and pecans and flour to make a dough stiff enough to roll out
  and cut. Bake a light brown at 350 for 15 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. W. J. Jung - typed and posted by teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Brauner Lebkuchen (Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
MMMMM--------------------------STEP ONE-------------------------------
      2 lb Light brown sugar
      1 lb Dark brown sugar
    1/4 lb Shortening
    1/4 lb Butter
      2 c  Water
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 c  Pecans
      2 ts Lemon flavor

MMMMM--------------------------STEP TWO-------------------------------
  2 3/4 lb Flour
      2 ts Baking powder
 
  ~- THESE COOKIES TAKE TWO DAYS TO MAKE !! --
  
  Bring Step One ingredients to boil; do not cook.  Then set aside until
  cold.
  
  When cold add Step Two ingredients.  Let stand overnight.  In the
  morning roll out on floured board to 1/8-inch thick and cut out with
  round cookie cutter.
  
  Bake at 375 F. for about 10 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. Martin A. Feuge - typed and posted by teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Depression Era How To Roast A Duck
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Whole duck
 
  A domestic duck requires almost twice cooking as wild duck. A wild
  duck will take about 30 minutes in a hot oven and should always have
  strips of bacon or salt pork laid across the breast while roasting,
  to keep it moist. Both kinds of duck need thorough basting; wild
  ducks are not stuffed.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Depression Era Braised Duck
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1    Good sized duck, an old one
           Will do
    1/4 lb Salt pork
      1    Carrot, diced
      1    Onion, sliced
      1    Bay leaf
           Little parsley
      3 c  Hot water
           Salt and cayenne to taste
      2 tb Flour
           Rubbed smooth with
      2 tb Butter
 
  Truss duck as for roasting or cut into joints. Cut the pork into small
  pieces and fry. Add vegetables, bay leaf and parsley; cook 5 minutes.
  Put in duck and fry till browned. Place the whole works in a baking
  dish, add water, cover closely and cook in a moderate oven till
  tender, adding more water if need be. Dish up, and thicken gravy with
  flour and butter mixture. Season highly and serve with currant jelly
  or apple sauce. Many of the recipes in this collection did not
  contain amounts or oven temperatures. I have typed them in as they
  appear in the book, typos and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Burmese Roast Duck
 Categories: Asian, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Cornstarch dissolved  in
      2 tb Water
      2 tb Light Soy sauce
      1 ts Sugar
      1    4 lb Long Island Duck
 
  Combine the first three ingredients, coat the duck and let stand 2
  hrs.
  
  Fill a steamer pan with water 1 1/2" deep. Place duck on rack breast
  side up, reserving marinade . Cover, bring water to boil and steam 30
  min. Skim fat from steaming juice and reserve.
  
  Preheat oven to 400 F. Transfer duck to a baking dish and brush with
  reserved marinade. Roast uncovered 15 min. Lower heat to 350 and
  roast a further 40 min.
  
  Remove duck to a cutting board. Skim and discard fat from the pan
  juices. In a small pan, combine reserved steaming and roasting
  juices, bring to a simmer, add the starch mix and cook, stirring,
  until thickened.
  
  Cut the wings, legs and thighs at the joints, split the back in half
  and the breast into quarters. Arrange pieces on a platter and top
  with the gravy.
  
  Source: Cooking Echo
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Duck Or Goose in Gravy
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Ducks or 1 Goose
           Lard or shortening
           Flour
           Water
           Salt
           Pepper
      1 sm Apple, quartered
      1    Potato, chunked
      1    Onion, quartered
      7    Potatoes, cut up
      2    Onions, quartered
 
  Lightly salt and pepper inside of bird(s). Roll in flour to coat.
  Slowly brown bird on all sides. Remove bird to Dutch oven. Add flour
  to pan drippings. Cook and stir until brown. Add water, salt, and
  pepper. Cook and stir until thickened. I usually make 4-5 cups of
  gravy.
  
  Stuff cavities with apple, onion, and chunked potato. Put potatoes and
  onions around bird. Pour gravy over all. Cover. Bake slowly 3 1/2 - 4
  hours or until the meat is falling off the bones -- tender and moist.
  Serve 1/2 duck to each person or slice goose. Pass potatoes, onions
  and gravy.
  
  From: Kaz Glover
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stuffed Spudwich Micro
 Categories: Microwave, Potatoes, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Potatoes (8 oz each)
    1/2 c  Light mayonnaise
    1/4 c  Green onions; sliced
    1/4 c  Celery; sliced
    1/4 c  Pickle relish
      2 ts Prepared yellow mustard
    1/4 ts Pepper
           Salt to taste
      4 ea Cooked ham; thin slices
 
  Pierce potatoes with tines of fork; microwave on HIGH 18 to 20 minutes
  until potatoes are fork tender; cool 10 minutes.
  
  Halve potatoes and carefully scook pulp into bowl leaving 1/4-inch
  thick shells; reserve shells. Mash potato pulp; mix in remaining
  ingredients except potato shells and ham. Fill shells with potato
  mixture. Sandwich 2 halves together with 1 folded ham slice in
  middle. Wrap each "sandwich" in a paper napkin to eat out of hand.
  
  Makes 4 servings
  
  Nutritional Information Per Serving Calories: 280 Fat: 9 g
  Cholesterol: 15 mg Sodium: 390 mg Carbohydrate: 46 g Fiber: 4 g
  Protein: 7 g
  
  Menu Suggestions Fresh Fruit Salad Pudding Cups
  
  NOTE: Microwave cooking times are based on a 700 watt microwave.
  Adjust cooking times to your own oven.
  
  Source: National Potato Promotion Board Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Flank Steak
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Flank steak
    3/4 c  Pineapple juice
    3/4 c  Ketchup
    3/4 c  Sugar
    3/4 c  Garlic red wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Water
      2 tb Corn starch
           Parsley for garnish
 
  Mix juice, ketchup, sugar, wine vinegar, and water.  Put in flat dish.
  Immerse flank steak.  Refrigerate 12-24 hours, covered. Turn steak
  over after half marinade time.  Grill over charcoal fire, basting
  frequently with marinade, for 20-25 minutes
  
  Add the corn starch to 2 cups of marinade.  Put in oven-prof dish on
  grill [away from direct heat] still untill thickened.  Slice steak on
  cross grain and serve with marinade and parsley garnish FROM: Bobbie
  Beers Emmy Lou Winter's marinated flank steak
  
  From: Robert Miles                    Date: 07-19-95 (23:03) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Chuck Roast
 Categories: Alcohol, Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Jack Daniel's Whiskey
    1/3 c  Brown sugar
    1/3 c  Soy sauce
    1/3 c  Water
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/8 ts Garlic powder (I use 1
           Minced garlic clove)
      1    2 to 3 lb chuck roast
           Jack Daniel's Barrel chips,
           Soaked in water
 
  Combine Jack Daniel's Whiskey, brown sugar, soy sauce, water,
  Worcestershire sauce, lemon juice and garlic powder; mix well. Place
  roast in plastic bag; add marinade and seal. Place in a dish;
  refrigerate overnight. Turn roast occasionally. Grill over medium
  coals with Jack Daniel's Barrel chips about 20 to 25 minutes per side
  for medium. Baste occasionally with marinade. To serve: cut into thin
  slices.
  
  Source: Jack Daniels "The Spirit of Tennessee" Cookbook. Lynne Tolley
  and Pat Mitchamore. ISBN 1-55853-001-0. Keywords: Whiskey, Soy,
  Favorites Servings: 4 to 6 Notes: This is a wonderful marinade for
  sirloin steak
  
  From: Robert Miles                    Date: 07-19-95 (23:04) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Marinated Flank Steak (Mainbeef - 1)
 Categories: Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2    To 3 - lb beef flank steak
    1/2    - cup maple syrup
    1/2    - cup soy sauce
    1/3    - cup green onion slices
    1/3    - cup orange juice
    1/3    - cup dry sherry
      1 ts Grated fresh ginger or 1/2
        ts Ground ginger
    1/4    - cup cold water
      2 ts Cornstarch
 
  Score meat, diagonally, on both sides. Combine remaining ingredients
  except water and cornstarch; pour over meat. Cover; refrigerate
  several hours or overnight, turning once. Reserving marinade, place
  meat on rack of broiler or on grill, so meat is 6 to 7" from the
  heat. Broil meat, about 6 minutes on each side or until desired
  doneness. Pour reserved marinade in a small saucepan; bring to a
  boil. Dissolve cornstarch in water; add to marinade. Continue cooking
  for 2 to 3 minutes or until thickened. Serve with flank steak. Makes
  8 servings. Keywords: Sherry Source: File/MAINBEEF.ZIP
  
  From: Robert Miles                    Date: 07-19-95 (23:06) (19)
  (E)Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tasty Quick Pudding Pops
 Categories: Desserts, Ice cream
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 pk Jello Cook 'n Serve Pudding
           5 oz size large package
      2 ea 8 Pop popcicle molds
     12 ea Popcicle sticks(sterilized)
  1 1/2 tb Baking Cocoa, powdered
 
  This is and easy recipe that tastes very similar to the pudding pops
  available in the stores.  The kids will love 'em.
  
  Use the quantity of milk recommended on the pudding box. Place the
  Cocoa in small bowl and add the milk, a little at a time, mixing into
  a smooth paste.  Continue adding the milk until all is combined with
  the cocoa. Using the milk and cocoa mix, make the pudding according
  to the box recipe. Cook until thick and pour into molds.  Add the
  sticks after a few minutes when the pudding begins to set.  Place the
  molds in the freezer for a few hours until frozen.  If you like you
  can make several batches and store the frozen pops in plastic bags
  placed in the freezer. Submitted By JOHN PRATHER   On   07-18-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Walnut Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 1 bundt cake
 
      1 c  Butter(or marg),
           -softened
      2 c  Granulated sugar
      2 lg Eggs
      1 tb Vanilla extract
      2 c  Sifted cake flour
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      8 oz Sour cream
      1 c  Finely chopped apple
      1 c  Finely chopped walnuts
      2 tb Brown sugar
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Grease and flour bundt pan.
  
  1) Beat butter at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy;
  gradually add 2 cups sugar, beating well.  Add eggs, one at a time,
  beating after each addition.  Stir in vanilla.
  
  2) Combine flour, baking powder, and salt.  Add flour mixture to
  butter mixture alternately with sour cream, beginning and ending with
  flour mixture.  Mix at low speed after each addition, just until
  blended. Pour half of the batter into a greased and floured 12-cup
  Bundt pan.
  
  3) Combine finely chopped apple and next 3 ingredients; spoon over
  batter in pan, leaving a 1/2" border around center and outer edges.
  Add remaining batter.
  
  4) Bake at 350 degrees for 50 to 55 minutes or until a wooden pick
  inserted in center of cake comes out clean. Cool in pan 10 minutes on
  a wire rack. Remove from pan, cool completely on a wire rack.
  
  5) Drizzle with Cream Cheese Glaze. Store in refrigerator.
  
     Cream Cheese Glaze recipe separate
  
  Recipe from Southern Living Magazine   Sept. 1994 typed and posted by
  teri chesser
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Durian    "The Cheese That Grows on a Tree"
 Categories: Information, Fruit, Asian
      Yield: 1 informatio
 
MMMMM----------------------DURIAN OR DURION---------------------------
 
  A tall fruit tree (Durio zibethinus) of the Chocolate family, is
  found in the East Indian islands with leaves resembling those of the
  cherry and with large bunches of pale-yellow flowers. Its fruit,
  called durian or durion, is about the size of a coconut and has a
  hard thick rind covered with soft spines. The cream-colored meat is
  flavorsome, but has a bad odor. The fruit contains ten or twelve
  seeds each as large as a walnut. When roasted the seeds taste like
  chestnuts. In Indian markets, the durian commands a higher price than
  any other native fruit. One tree yields about 200 fruit each year.
  
  Grown in the Philippines, Malaysia, and southern Thailand, they are
  seldom exported. The smell of the durian has been described as
  "sewagelike" or like that of a "rotten onion."  According to Alfred
  Russell Wallace, "It has a rich butterlike custard highly flavored
  with almonds, but intermingled with wafts of flavor that call to mind
  cream cheese, onion sauce, brown sherry, and other incongruities." No
  one is neutral about about this fruit.  There are people who like its
  strong flavor and penetrating aroma and cannot stop eating it once
  started. There are others, not under its spell, who will not approach
  within yards of the opened fruit and will steer clear of anyone who
  has eaten it. Its taste is most like a robust overripe Roquefort.
  Raefel Steinberg writes that some airlines in the region specifically
  forbid passengers to take fresh durian aboard an airplane, and in an
  airconditioned hotel in the Phillipines he saw a printed notice to
  the effect that "Firearms and durian fruit are prohibited in the
  rooms."
  
  This large, globe shaped fruit has a hard, yellow-to-green and heavily
  spiked shell over a fleshy segregated interior of soft, sweet flesh.
  When ripe it has a strong, nauseating odor which makes it a difficult
  fruit to stock. It is, therefore, rarely available fresh. Even in
  Malaysia and Indonesia where it is grown, it reaches only selected
  fruit stands for its two annual seasons. Its flavor is intense and
  can best be described for its similarity to tropical fruit salad.
  Eating it fresh can be an acquired taste. It is used raw in ice
  cream, desserts and to make candy. it is sometimes fried, cooked in a
  skin over charcoal or steamed in the same way as breadfruit. A
  yellowing of the skin indicates the fruit is ripe. Durian lovers are
  known to open the prickly soccer ball-sized fruit with gusto and dig
  out with their fingers the sticky yello pulp while telling stories
  about the durian's supposed aphrodisacal values.
  
  In Sumatra, cooks prepare a chile pepper-hot stock, "Sambal".  One
  version, "Sambal Tempojak"  is made from fermented durian fruit,
  coconut milk, and a collection of spicy ingredients.
  
  Durian is sold in cans or bottles, packed in sugar syrup. Each
  segment of flesh has one or several large black, shiney seeds which,
  in Indonesia, are roasted and eaten as snacks.  The petals from
  durian flowers are eaten in the Batak provinces, while in the
  Moluccas islands the peel is used as fuel to smoke fish.
  
  It is also known as "ambetan", "dooren" (Indonesian), doorian
  (Malaysia) and "turian" (Thailand, meaning "king of fruit").
  
  =========================> Notes and Credits <====================
  
  "Funk & Wagnalls Standard Reference Encyclopedia", 1969 by Reader's
  Digest Books, Inc.
  
  "The People's Almanac" by David Wallechinsky and Irving Wallace
  Doubleday & Company, Inc. 1975  ISBN 0-385-04186-1
  
  "The Encyclopedia of Asian Food and Cooking", by Jacki Passmore,
  Hearst Books, 1991  ISBN 0-688-10448-7
  
  "Foods of the World, Pacific and Southwest Asian Cooking", by Rafael
  Steinberg, Time Life Books, 1972, 70-114231
  
  Researched by Dorothy Hair 5/23/94 Re-U/L to Cooking by Burt Ford.
  7/95 Submitted By BURTON FORD   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Apple Mincemeat Crunch
 Categories: Pastry, Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/2 c  Moist cooked mincemeat
      3    Apples, sliced thin
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
    1/2 c  Quick cooking oats
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Margarine
 
  Butter an 8 inch round baking pan.  Pour in the mincemeat.  Arrange
  apples on top of this.  Combine oatmeal, sugar, flour.  Cut in
  margarine. Bake at 350 degrees for 35 to 40 minutes.  Serve warm or
  cold with whipped topping or ice cream.  Sprinkle the topping over
  the apple mincemeat mixture before baking. Randy Rigg
  Submitted By RANDY RIGG   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Deviled Eggs
 Categories: Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Egg yolks, hard cooked
      2 tb Mayonnaise or salad
           -dressing
      1 ts Grated onion
      1 ts Prepared mustard
    1/2 ts Worcestershire sauce
      1 cn Deviled ham (2 1/2 oz)
           Salt and pepper to taste
 
  Mix all ingredients together - adjust mayo for desired creaminess.
  Pile back into egg white halves. Garnish with a sprinkle of paprika
  
  Courtesy of: Joann Pierce
  From: Joann Pierce                    Date: 07-20-95 (21:41) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Best Ever Baked Beans
 Categories: Vegetables, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Pork and beans - canned
           (actually 4 to 5 lbs.)
    1/2 c  Onion - chopped
    1/2 c  Celery - chopped
    1/3 c  Bell pepper - chopped
      2 tb Mustard - prepared
    1/2 c  Molasses
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
      3 dr Tabasco - actually 3 to 4
           -drops
    1/2 c  Barbecue sauce - bottled or
           -homemade (see recipe)
    1/2 c  Catsup
      2    Strip bacon - uncooked and
           -cut in half
 
  Combine all ingredients, except in bacon, in large ovenproof
  container. Lay bacon strips on top.  Place on smoker grid and smoke
  for 2 to 2-1/2 hours.
  
  Note from me:  If you don't have a smoker, you can cook at about 350F
  for about 45 minutes to 1 hour, until the bacon is curling.  Better
  flavor in a smoker, but divine beans without!
  
  Makes 8 to 10 servings.
  
  Recipe from "Cook'n Cajun Water Smoker Cookbook" by Sondra Hester.
  
  This is undoubtedly one of the best baked bean dishes we've ever
  tasted. Easy to make and no tending necessary.  You can have ribs
  smoking on the bottom rack and beans on the top rack.  Add garlic
  bread and coleslaw, potato salad or macaroni salad and you've got a
  Super Bowl party, bowl game or Monday Night Football dinner! Source:
  Cook'n Cajun Water Smoker Ckbk
  
  From: Michelle Bass
  
  From: Pat Stockett                    Date: 07-20-95 (05:41) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Streuseln (Toppings for Plain Cake)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 3 recipe
 
MMMMM---------------------TOPPING RECIPE #1--------------------------
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Butter

MMMMM-------------------------TOPPING #2------------------------------
      3 tb Butter
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      7 tb Flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
           Chopped nuts OR
           Candied cherries Or
           Shredded almonds

MMMMM-------------------------TOPPING #3------------------------------
      2    Egg whites (left from cake?)
      1 c  Brown sugar
           Pecans; chopped
 
  1) Mix flour, sugar, cinnamon and butter until themixture is crumbly.
     Spread thickly on cake before baking.
  
  2) Melt the butter, add sugar, flour and cinnamon.  Spread on cake
  and top
     with chopped nuts, candied cherries or a few shredded almonds and
  bake.
  
  3) Make this delicious topping for any plain cake: Beat egg whites
  (left
     from cake) until they hold a peak.  Gradually beat in brown sugar.
     Spread on unbaked batter and sprinkle thickly with chopped pecans.
     Bake.
  
  ~ Mrs. Nannie Striegler typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Streusel Kaffeekuchen (Coffee Cake)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 coffeecake
 
MMMMM--------------------------STREUSEL-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Brown sugar
      2 tb Flour
      1 ts Cinnamon
      2 tb Melted butter
    1/2 c  Chopped nuts

MMMMM------------------------CAKE BATTER-----------------------------
    1/4 c  Shortening
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Salt
  1 1/2 c  Flour
      3 ts Baking powder
      1    Egg
    2/3 c  Milk
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  STREUSEL:  Mix ingredients.
  
  CAKE:  Sift flour, measure and sift 3 times with sugar, salt and
  baking powder.  Cut the shortening into the flour mixture with a
  pastry blender or two knives.  To the well beaten egg, add the milk
  and vanilla and stir this into flour mixture.
  
  Pour 1/2 of the batter into a greased pan 6x10-inches.  Sprinkle with
  1/2 of the streusel mixture; add the remaining batter, and top with
  the other half of the streusel.  Bake at 350 F. 25 minutes.
  
  ~ Miss Constance Strieger typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wiener Zollen (Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      1 c  Pecans
      1 ts Grated nutmeg
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Cloves
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
  3 1/2 c  Flour
 
  Beat eggs until light; add sugar gradually.  Add other ingredients
  and roll dough to 1/4 inch thickness.  Cut into half moons and
  sprinkle with sugar. Baked about 15 minutes on well greased cookie
  sheets, at 350.
  
  ~ Mrs. F. W. Arhelger typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Liebes-Knoten (Love Knots)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
    1/2 c  Whole eggs
    1/2 c  Thick cream
    1/3 c  Sugar
        pn Of salt
    1/2 ts Vanilla
      3 c  Flour
 
     Beat eggs well with electric mixer.  Add sugar and beat well.  Add
  salt and vanilla.  Mixture will be thin.  Gradually add flour, having
  mixer at low speed.  Mixture should now be in cookie dough form. Roll
  very thin on lightly floured board.  Cut into 1/2-inch strips with
  knife or pastry cutter.  Cut in crosswise strips, 1 1/2 inches long.
  Give each strip a double twist to resemble a bow.
  
     Fry in deep fat, 375 F.  When brown, roll in sifted powdered
  sugar.
  
  ~ Mrs. W. G. Bench typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Anise Seed Cookies
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Sugar
      2 c  Flour
      4    Eggs
      1 tb Anise seed OR
           Few drops anise oil
 
     Beat the eggs thoroughly for 15 minutes.  Add sugar slowly, a
  little at a time and continue beating.  Add anise seed or a few drops
  of anise oil and the flour.  Drop on well-greased cookie sheets and
  bake in moderate over, 350, for about 12 minutes.
  
  ~ Mrs. Henry Henke, Sr. typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mandelbrot (Almond Squares)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipegs
 
      1 c  Finely chopped almonds OR
           -- nuts
      2 c  Sugar
      2 c  Flour
      4    Eggs
      1 ts EACH cinnamon and nutmeg
    1/2 ts Ground cardamon seed
      2 ts Baking powder
           Powdered sugar (dusting opt)
 
  Sift and mix dry ingredients well, add beaten eggs. Bake 1/2 hour at
  350. Cut into squares while still warm. Ice or dust with powdered
  sugar.
  
  ~ Mrs. A. H. Kneese typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blitzkuchen (Lightning Cake)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 cake
 
      1 c  Butter -OR-
    3/4 c  Margarine
      1 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Flour sifted WITH
  1 1/2 ts Baking powder
           Grated rind AND
           Juice of 1 lemon
           Sugar AND cinnamon
 
  Cream butter and sugar.  Add eggs one at a time.  Beat well, add
  flour, lemon juice and rind and spread 1-inch thick on flat pan.
  Sprinkle with a mixture of sugar and cinnamon ang bake 20 minutes at
  350 F.
  
  ~ Miss Elsie Lungwitz
  
  {Chopped nuts sprinkled with the sugar/cinnamon would be good.  Serve
  with whipped cream topping}
  
  ~ Miss Elsie Lungwitz typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Weinsuppe (Wine Soup)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 qt Water
    1/4 c  Whole tapioca
      1 c  Wine
    1/4 c  Raisins
    1/2 ts Vanilla
    1/3 c  Sugar
      4    Slices lemon
      1 sm Piece of stick cinnamon
  1 1/2 c  Toasted bread cubes
 
  Bring water to boil.  Add the whole tapioca, cinnamon, lemon slices,
  and raisins.  Cook until clear and raisins are done.  Take from heat
  and add sugar, wine and vanilla.  Just before serving add bread cubes
  toasted in a tablespoon butter
  
  ~ Mrs. William Petmecky typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Biersuppe (Beer Soup) & Buttermilchsuppe (Buttermilk Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      2 c  Sweet milk
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3    Egg yolks
      3    Egg whites
      2 c  Beer
 
  Scald milk.  Mix cornstarch and sugar, add beaten egg yolds and blend
  thoroughly before stirring slowly into the milk.  In a separate pan
  scald the beer.  Combine with milk mixture.  To the beaten whites add
  1 tablespoon sugar and heap by tablespoons on top of soup.
  
  BUTTERMILK SOUP - Follow recipe using 4 cups buttermilk in place of
  sweet milk and beer.
  
  ~ Mrs. Edgar Marschall typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Weihnacht Plaetzchen (Christmas Cookies)
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      1 c  Butter
    3/4 c  Sugar
      3    Egg yolks
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      1 ts Vanilla OR lemon extract
    1/4 ts Almond extract

MMMMM-----------------------DECORATE WITH----------------------------
           Colored sugar
           Nuts
           Candied cherries
 
  Cream butter and sugar thoroughly.  Add well-beaten egg yolks, add
  extracts.  Mix in half the flour, then turn on a floured board and
  knead in balance of flour.
  
  Roll out and cut with Christmas tree, star and Santa Claus cutters.
  
  Place on greased baking sheet.
  
  Bake at 375.
  
  Decorate with colored sugar, nuts and candied cherries.
  
  ~ Mrs. W. A. Nettle typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: German Bundt Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 cake
 
  1 1/4 c  Butter
  2 1/4 c  Sugar
      7    Eggs
  2 1/2 c  Sifted flour
  2 1/2 ts Vanilla
 
     Cream butter and sugar well.  Add whole eggs, one at a time, beat
  after each addition.  Add flour, all at once, and beat well.  Add
  flavoring.
  
     Bake  in greased and floured bundt pan at 325 F. for one hour.
  
  Cool ten minutes before removing from pan.
  
  ~ Mrs. Adam Gruber typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kartoffelsuppe Mit Milch (Potato Soup with Milk)
 Categories: Soup/stew, Aust/german
      Yield: 1 recipe
 
      3    Potatoes
      1 pt Milk
      2 ts Chopped onion
      1 tb Butter
      1 ts Salt
      1 tb Flout
    1/8 ts White pepper
      1 pn Celery salt
      2 ts Chopped parsley
 
  Boil potatoes until soft; beat potatoes with wire potato masher.
  Scald milk and onion in double boiler.  Add hot liquid to potatoes.
  Strain and return to double boiler.  Make white sauce of remaining 5
  ingredients; add to potato mixture in double poiler and cook five
  minutes more. Add chopped parsley just before serving.  (1 cup of
  tomato juice may be added.)
  
  ~ Mrs. Andrew Moursund typed & posted by teri chesser 7.95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lemon Pepper Linguine With Artichoke Hearts
 Categories: Pasta, Main dish
      Yield: 4 to 6 svgs
 
      1 cn (14-oz.) Artichoke hearts
    1/2 c  Black olives, sliced
      2 tb Olive oil
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 ea Garlic cloves; minced
    1/8 ts Crushed red pepper
        x  Salt and freshly ground
           -black pepper
      1 lb Lemon pepper linguine
 
  PREP TIME:  5 minutes, plus 1 hour to marinate
  
  COOKING TIME:  10 minutes
  
  1.  Drain artichoke hearts, reserving juice.  Coarsely chop
  artichokes and combine with 2 tablespoons reserved juice, olives,
  olive oil, lemon juice, garlic, red pepper, salt and pepper in a
  large bowl. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour.
  
  2.  Cook linguine according to package directions.  Toss pasta with
  artichoke mixture.  Serve immediately with freshly grated Parmesan
  cheese, if desired.
  
  PER SERVING:  300 calories; 10g fat; 30% calories from fat; 0mg
  cholesterol, 7.8g fiber.
  
  Source:  Kathryn Arnold in "Delicious! Your Magazine of Natural
  Living" (natural foods store give-away), July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta a la Grecque
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables, Seafood
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 ea Tomatoes
    3/4 lb Med shrimp; cooked, shelled
           -and deveined
    1/2 lb Feta cheese; crumbled
      6 ea Scallions; chopped
      4 ts Fresh oregano; minced
        x  Salt and freshly ground
           -black pepper
      1 lb Spinach linguine
 
  PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 1 hour to marinate
  
  COOKING TIME:  10 minutes
  
  1.  Cut tomatoes in half cross-wise.  Squeeze to extract seeds.
  Coarsely chop tomatoes.  Combine tomatoes, shrimp, feta cheese,
  scallions, oregano, salt and pepper in a large bowl.  Toss well and
  let marinate in refrigerator for 1 hour.
  
  2.  Cook linguine according to package directions.  Rinse and drain
  well. Toss warm pasta with shrimp and feta cheese mixture and serve
  immediately.
  
  PER SERVING:  290 calories; 10g fat; 31% calories from fat; 147mg
  cholesterol; 1.5g fiber.
  
  Source:  Kathryn Arnold in "Delicious!  Your Magazine of Natural
  Living" (natural foods store give-away), July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Angel Hair with Fresh Tomato & Basil Sauce
 Categories: Pasta, Vegetables, Tomatoes
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Ripe tomatoes
      2 ea Cloves garlic; minced
      1 tb Balsamic vinegar
      2 tb Olive oil
    1/4 c  Fresh basil; chopped
    1/2 ts Sea salt
        x  Freshly ground black pepper
           -to taste
      1 lb Angel hair pasta
 
  PREP TIME:  15 minutes, plus 30 minutes to marinate
  
  COOKING TIME:  5 minutes
  
  1.  Cut tomatoes in half and squeeze to extract seeds.  Finely chop
  tomatoes.
  
  2.  Combine tomatoes with garlic, vinegar, olive oil, basil, salt and
  pepper in a large bowl.  Toss well and let stand at room temperature
  30 minutes.  Adjust seasonings.
  
  3.  Prepare angel hair according to package directions.  Rinse and
  drain well.  Toss warm pasta with tomato sauce.  Serve immediately
  with freshly grated Parmesan, if desired.
  
  PER SERVING:  247 calories; 9g fat; 33% calories from fat; 0mg
  cholesterol; 5g fiber.
  
  Source:  Kathryn Arnold in "Delicious!  Your Magazine of Natural
  Living" (natural foods store give-away), July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Apples - House Beautiful
 Categories: Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Kanten coulis, recipe
           -follows
      6 lg Rome apples, washed, cored
           -3/4 of the way through and
           -1 to 1 1/2 inches of skin
           -around the top of each
           -apple removed
 
  In a baking dish just large enough to hold the apples, spoon about
  1/2-inch of the Kanten coulis, place apples on top and fill each hole
  with Kanten coulis. Bake 30 to 45 minutes in a preheated 350' oven
  until the apples are soft but retain their shape. Serve warm or at
  room temperature. Serves 6.
  
  House Beautiful/April/94  Scanned & fixed by DP & GG
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crockpot Sweet & Sour Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Crockpot, Fruit, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Carrot; cut in pieces
      1    Green pepper; cut in pieces
      1    Med Onion; quartered
      4    Chicken breast halves
           -boneless, skinless, no fat
      3 tb Instant tapioca; (heaping)
      8 oz Pineapple chunks; canned
           -juices reserved
      2 tb Ginger, candied or fresh
           -minced
    1/3 c  Dark brown sugar; packed
    1/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Instant Chicken bouillon
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      1    Med Green pepper; strips
     10    Fresh cilantro leaves; opt.
           Rice; hot, cooked
 
  Put vegs. in bottom of crockpot. Sprinkle tapioca over vegetables.
  Place chicken atop vegetables. Combine all other ingredients
  (including pineapple juice) except rice in a small bowl. Pour over
  chicken. Cover crockpot and turn to low and cook for 8-10 hours.
  Before serving make rice. Serve over rice. Leftovers can be reheated
  in microwave. To cook in oven: Put vegetables in bottom of a greased
  pan. Sprinkle vegs. with tapioca. Add chicken to pan. Combine all
  other ingreds. except rice in a small bowl. Pour over chicken. Cover
  pan tightly with foil. Bake in 300 deg. oven for 2 hours. Before
  serving make rice. Serve over rice. Leftovers can be reheated in
  microwave. Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crockpot Sweet 'n' Sour Chicken
 Categories: Crockpot, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Carrots; cut into 1/4" piece
      1 lg Green Pepper; cut 1" pieces
      1 md Onion; cut into wedges
      2 tb Tapioca; quick-cooking
      1 cn Frozen Pineapple-Orange 6oz
           -juice Concentrate, thawed
    1/2 c  Catsup
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Tapioca
           Cinnamon Stick; 2 inches
    1/3 c  Brown sugar; packed
    1/3 c  Red wine vinegar
      1 tb Soy sauce
    1/2 ts Chicken bouillon granules
           -broken
      8    Allspice; whole
      4    Cloves; whole
      3 lb Chicken; skinned, cut up, &
           -frozen
           Hot cooked couscous
 
  For sauce, in a small bowl combine juice concentrate, catsup, and
  lemon juice.  Pour about half of the sauce into a crockpot. Add
  tapioca to the cooker; stir.
  
  For spice bag, place cinnamon, allspice, and cloves in cheesecloth
  and tie. Add bag to cooker.  Place frozen chicken pieces in crockery
  cooker. Pour remaining sauce over chicken.
  
  Cover; cook on low-heat setting 10-12 hours or high-heat setting 4
  1/2-5 1/2 hours.  Discard spice bag. Transfer chicken to a serving
  platter. Skim fat from sauce. Serve sauce and hot couscous with
  chicken. Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Apple Twists (1958)
 Categories: Desserts, Pastry, Fruit
      Yield: 16 twists
 
      2 lg Baking apples, peeled &
           -cored
  1 1/2 c  Flour
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Shortening
      4 tb Up to ...
      6 tb Cold water
      1 tb Butter, softened
           TOPPING:
    1/4 c  Butter, melted
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Water
 
  (1958 Pillsbury Bake Off Winner)
        Heat oven to 425 degrees.  Cut each apple into 8 wedges. Lightly
  spoon flour into measuring cup; level off.  In medium bowl, blend
  flour and salt.  Using pastry blender or fork, cut in shortening
  until mixture resembles coarse crumbs.  Sprinkle flour mixture with
  water 1 T at a time, mixing lightly with fork until dough is just
  moist enough to hold together. Shape dough into ball.
        On floured surface, roll dough lightly from center to edge into
  12-inch square.  Spread with 1 T softened butter.  Fold 2 sides to
  center. Roll to 16 x 10 inch rectangle.  Cut crosswise into 16 (10
  inch) strips. Wrap 1 strip around each apple wedge. Place 1/2 inch
  apart in ungreased 13 x 9 inch pan.
        Brush each wrapped apple wedge with melted butter.  In small
  bowl, blend sugar and cinnamon; sprinkle over wrapped apples. Bake at
  425 degrees for 20 minutes.  Pour water into pan. Bake an additional
  12 to 17 minutes or until golden brown. Spoon sauce in pan over
  twists.
        Serve warm or cool, plain or with whipped cream.  Dorothy
  DeVault, OH.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dorothy Flatman's Raspberry Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 ea Pastry for 9" pie; unbaked
      4 c  Raspberries
    1/4 c  Minute tapioca
    3/4 c  Sugar
    1/4 ts Almond extract
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
  
  Mix fruit, tapioca, sugar, lemon juice and extract in a bowl. Let
  stand 15 minutes. Fill pastry lined 9 inch pie plate with fruit
  mixture. Cover pie with top crust; seal and flute edge. Cut several
  slits in top to permit steam to escape. Bake 1 hour or until juices
  form bubbles that burst slowly. Cool.
  
  Source: Dorothy Flatman's kitchen 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beyond Peerless Red Raspberry Preserves
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Red raspberries (heaping)
           -(1 pound, 6 ounces)
  3 1/4 c  Granulated sugar
           -(1 pound, 4 ounces)
    1/3 c  Fresh lemon juice; strained
      1 ts Butter
 
  Sort fresh raspberries, discarding any that are too soft, moldy or
  otherwise suspect. Rinse them and drain them well. (If using frozen
  berries, thaw and save all their juice.)
  
  Stir the raspberries (including the juice if using thawed berries),
  the sugar and lemon juice together in a bowl, using a rubber spatula.
  Let the mixture stand, stirring gently once or twice, until the sugar
  has dissolved, about 2 hours (many times I let is sit all day in the
  refrigerator, or overnight).
  
  Wash four half pint jars. Keep hot until needed. Prepare lids as
  manufacturer directs.
  
  Scrape the mixture into a large skillet or saute pan. Bring it to a
  boil that cannot be stirred down, stirring constantly with a straight
  ended wooden or nylon spatula, and boil rapidly for 6 minutes. Remove
  from heat.
  
  The butter helps reduce foam, but if some remains after you've
  removed the skillet from the burner and let the jam settle for about
  10 seconds, skim it off.  Ladle hot preserves into one hot jar at a
  time, leaving 1/4-inch head space. Wipe jar rim with a clean, damp
  cloth. Attach lid. Fill and close remaining jars. Process in a
  boiling water bath for 10 minutes (at 1,001 to 3,000 feet, process
  for 15 minutes; 3,001 to 6,000 feet, for 20 minutes).
  
  Makes about 3-1/2 cups jam
  
  Adapted from Fancy Pantry by Helen Witty who says "This is the jam
  recipe I've been using for the crew of the John Paul Jones. I've been
  using it for years, and invite you to use it as well if you don't
  already have a favorite. The secret of making the brilliantly colored
  and fresh tasting preserves from red raspberries is brief, fast
  cooking in small batches. A wide shallow pan (a 12 inch skillet is
  perfect) is essential."
  
  Source: Oregonian FoodDay by Jan Roberts-Dominguez Typos by Dorothy
  Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Seedless Blackberry Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Ripe blackberries
  2 1/2 c  Tart apples; coarse chopped
           -(2 to 3 medium, include
           -skins and cores)
  1 1/2 c  Water, or more as needed
      3 tb Fresh lemon juice; strained
           -or more to taste
      5 c  Granulated sugar (about)
 
  Wash six half pint jars. Keep hot until needed. Prepare lids as
  manufacturer directs.
  
  Place half the berries in a large pot; crush them with a potato
  masher or heavy bottle. Add remaining berries and crush them. Or chop
  the berries briefly in a food processor.
  
  Add the apples and the 1-1/2 cups water to the berries. Cook the
  mixture uncovered over medium low heat stirring often, until the
  fruit is very soft, 15 to 20 minutes. Add up to 1/2 cup more water if
  the fruit threatens to stick to the pan; stir the fruit almost
  constantly.
  
  Set a food mill with a fine disc (or use a medium mesh sieve) over a
  bowl. Force the hot fruit through the sieve, using the back of a
  spoon or a rubber spatula; discard the seeds. Rinse out the pot.
  Measure the fruit pulp back into the pot; you should have about 5
  cups. Taste the pulp; add enough lemon juice to make the fruit
  pleasantly tart. Stir in 1 cup of granulated sugar for each cup of
  pulp.
  
  Heat the mixture over medium high heat to boiling, stirring until the
  sugar dissolves. Cook the jam rapidly, stirring frequently, until it
  reaches 220 degrees F on a candy thermometer (216 degrees at 2,000
  feet; 214 degrees at 3,000 feet, etc.).
  
  Ladle the hot jam into one jar at a time, leaving 1/4-inch head
  space. Wipe jar rim with a clean, damp cloth. Attach lid. Fill and
  close remaining jars. Process in boiling water bath for 10 minutes
  (15 minutes at 1,001 to 3,000 feet, 20 minutes at 3,001 to 6,000
  feet.)
  
  Fully ripe blackberries, loganberries, boysenberries or Marionberries
  are used instead of slightly under ripe berries because the apples
  supply the pectin needed to make it jell, and the lemon juice
  provides a welcome tartness. The result is a preserve that captures
  the full flavor of the berry. A delicious filling for tiny tars or
  layer cake.
  
  Makes about 6 half pints
  
  Source: From Fancy Pantry by Helen Witty. Published in the Oregonian
  Foodday by Jan Roberts-Dominguez Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Red Raspberry Apricot Jam
 Categories: Can/preserv, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Dried apricots; coarse dice
      1 c  Water
      4 lb Red raspberries
      6 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 ts Salt (optional)
 
  Wash four pint or 8 half pint jars. Keep hot until needed. Prepare
  lids as manufacturer directs.
  
  Simmer the apricots in the water for 15 minutes. Add the raspberries,
  sugar and salt. Cook rapidly for 15 minutes, or until the jam reaches
  220 degrees F on a candy thermometer.
  
  Ladle the hot jam into one hot jar at a time, leaving 1/4-inch head
  space. Wipe jar rim with a clean, damp cloth. Attach lid. Fill and
  close remaining jars. Process in a boiling water bath for 10 minutes
  below 1,000 feet.
  
  Makes about 4 pints
  
  Source: Adapted from Preserving by the Editors of Time-Life books
  Published in the Oregonian FoodDay by Jan Rroberts-Dominguez Typos by
  Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Poulet a l'Estragon (Chicken in Tarragon Sauce)
 Categories: French, Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Chicken portions
      1 oz Flour, seasoned with
           Salt
           Pepper
      3 tb Oil
      1 md Onion, finely chopped
    275 ml Medium-dry white wine
    275 ml Chicken stock
      2    Cloves garlic;peeled&crushed
      2    Sprigs fresh tarragon; or
      1 ts Dried tarragon
      1    Bayleaf
      1 sm Bunch of parsley

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
      8    Fresh tarragon leaves
 
  Set the oven at Gas 6/400F/200C.
  
  Coat the chicken portions thinly with the seasoned flour, then fry
  them in hot oil over medium heat until a rich brown. Remove from the
  pan, drain on paper towels and then put into a casserole.
  
  Add the onions to the same fat and cook gently until softened and
  golden (about 5 minutes). Now add the wine to the pan and bubble
  fiercely for 2 minutes to reduce its acidity and also to concentrate
  the flavor. Add the stock, garlic, tarragon, bayleaf and parsley and
  pour over the chicken joints (which should be half-covered by the
  sauce).
  
  Cover and cook in the oven for 15 minutes until bubbly, then reduce
  the temperature to Gas 3/325F/160C and cook for a further 25 minutes
  or until a leg feels tender when pierced with a knife (20 minutes if
  breasts only are used). Leave the lid off for a further 15 minutes to
  reduce the sauce. If it is still too thin, dish the chicken then boil
  down the sauce on top of the stove until syrupy and pour over the
  bird.
  
  Garnish with tarragon leaves.
  
  Source : The New Jewish Cuisine by Evelyn Rose. Typed by Heiko
  Ebeling.
  
  I've tried several versions of this dish before and I think this one
  suits my taste best.  In my opinion the ingredient list calls for a
  little too much liquid.  I'd go with the indication given in the
  instructions instead: the chicken pieces should be half-covered.
  Also, I found it isn't absolutely necessary to use chicken stock.
  This recipe works very well too if you use water instead.  -Heiko.
  Submitted By HEIKO EBELING   On   07-16-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deep Dish Peach Cobbler
 Categories: Fruit, Pie/tart
      Yield: 1 servings
 
     16 oz Can sliced peaches in syrup
      1 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Granulated sugar
      2 ts Cornstarch
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 c  Baking mix
      2 tb Milk (to 3)
           Frozen vanilla yogurt; opt
 
  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Drain peaches and measure syrup, adding
  water if necessary to make 2/3 cup; set syrup mixture aside. Turn
  peaches into 1 quart casserole and drizzle with lemon juice; set
  aside.
  
  In a 1 quart saucepan, stir together sugar, cornstarch and cinnamon
  until free of lumps; whisk in peach juice and bring to a boil over
  medium heat, stirring often. When syrup comes to a simmer and is
  slightly thickened, pour over peaches and set aside while you make
  drip biscuits.
  
  In a small bowl, stir together baking mix and milk just to blend.
  Divide in half and spoon over peaches to make 2 drop biscuits. Bake
  20 minutes, or until topping is browned and peaches are bubbling.
  Serve warm or cold with frozen vanilla yogurt if desired.
  
  Makes 2 servings
  
  Per serving Calories: 257 Protein: 3 grams Fat: 3 grams Cholesterol:
  1 mg Carbohydrate: 73 grams Sodium 256 mg Exchanges: 3 fruit, 1/2
  bread
  
  Source: Oregonian FoodDay Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peach Alexander
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 ea Peaches; peeled diced*
      2 ts Vanilla OR
      1 ts Almond extract
      2 lg Scoops vanilla ice cream
           -(2/3 cup)

MMMMM--------------------------GARNISH-------------------------------
           Fresh mint
           Fresh peach slices
 
  Combine diced peaches and vanilla (or almond extract) in blender;
  whirl until smooth. Add ice cream and whirl just until smooth. Pour
  into glasses. Garnish with fresh mint and peach slice.
  
  *Note: To peel peaches, plunge into boiling water for 30 seconds.
  Remove immediately and plunge into ice water. Skin should slip off
  easily.
  
  Makes 4 servings
  
  Per serving: Calories: 75 (8% from protein, 83% from carbohydrate, 8%
  from fat) Protein: 2 grams Fat: 1 gram Cholesterol: 3 mg
  Carbohydrate: 16 grams Sodium: 20 mg Exchanges: 1 fruit
  
  Source: Oregonian FoodDay by Jan Roberts-Dominguez Typos by Dorothy
  Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cinnamon Peach Ice Cream
 Categories: Desserts, Ice cream, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Half-and-half
      1 ea Vanilla bean  OR
      2 ts Vanilla
      3 lg Egg yolks
      1 c  Granulated sugar; divided
      1 c  Whipping cream
  1 1/2 lb Ripe peaches; peeled chopped
           -(4 large)
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/2 ts Almond extract
 
  Cinnamon peach ice cream is reserved for the height of the summer
  peach season. The creamy custard base should be cooked well in
  advance so it is thoroughly chilled on ice cream making day.
  
  In a heavy saucepan, combine the milk and half-and-half. Split the
  vanilla bean, if using, and scrape the seeds from inside; add the pod
  and seed pulp to the milk mixture and place over moderately low heat.
  If using pure vanilla, wait until cooling instructions before adding.
  Scald until bubbles appear around the edges; remove from heat.
  
  Put the egg yolks in a large bowl; whisk or beat with 1/2 cup of the
  sugar for 1 minute. Slowly whisk in the hot milk mixture. Return the
  mixture to the saucepan; stir over low heat until the custard just
  begins to simmer and becomes thick enough to lightly coat a spoon. Do
  not let the custard boil or it will curdle. Immediately transfer to a
  bowl set in a larger bowl of cold water and ice cubes. Stir to cool
  the custard quickly. If using pure vanilla, stir it in now. Cover
  with plastic wrap placed directly on the surface of the custard;
  chill for 6 hours or overnight.
  
  Remove the vanilla bean, if using, scraping off any custard and seed
  pulp. Stir in the whipping cream. Return the custard to the
  refrigerator.
  
  In a bowl, combine the peaches with the remaining 1/2 cup sugar, the
  cinnamon and almond extract. Stir to dissolve the sugar. Cover and
  chill for 1 hour, stirring occasionally.
  
  In the container of an ice cream maker, combine the cream mixture
  with the fruit mixture. Freeze according to the manufacturer's
  directions. Transfer the ice cream to the freezer for at least 2
  hours before serving.
  
  Makes about 6 cups
  
  Source: From Big Flavors by Jim Fobel Published in the Oregonian
  FoodDay by Mary MacVean
    Typos by Dorothy Flatman 1995
  Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Peach Varieties Picking And Storing
 Categories: Information, Fruit, Can/preserv
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------PEACH HOW TO'S----------------------------
 
  PEACH VARIETIES: Peaches are customarily classified into two general
  categories: freestone and clingstone. Freestone fruit has a stone or
  pit that's easy to remove; Clingstone's more solid flesh is more
  difficult to separate from the pit. Here are some common Oregon
  varieties, in the order they'll appear in markets. U-picks and
  farmers markets generally have the best selection.
  
  RED HAVEN: An early clingstone, this variety is excellent for eating
  out of hand. Because it is difficult to free from the pit in halves,
  it is not the best canning peach. However, you can cut slices off the
  pit and freeze.
  
  FREESTONE JULY ELBERTA:  Excellent for eating fresh, canning and
  freezing.
  
  SUNCREST PEACHES: A freestone, it's excellent for eating fresh and
  freezing. It has a slightly acidic flavor; it's red so it's difficult
  to judge ripeness. Look for a golden base color that comes through
  the red.
  
  VETERAN:  Popular for canning because it is a freestone and, when
  fully ripe, does not need to be dipped in boiling water to get the
  skin off. Simply take the tip of a paring knife and pull the skin
  off. Veteran can also be frozen.
  
  IMPROVED OR LATE ELBERTAS:  This longtime canning favorite now takes
  second place to Veterans in this area. This freestone peach also
  freezes well. They do require dipping in boiling water to remove
  skins.
  
  HOW TO PEEL PEACHES: Bring a saucepan of water to a boil. Add peaches
  and let them blanch 30 to 40 seconds; time will depend on ripeness of
  the fruit. Boiling too long will cook peaches.
  
   Remove the peaches with a slotted spoon and immediately transfer to a
  large bowl of ice water. Leave to cool, then drain and dry well before
  peeling.
  
   The skin will be easy to remove with a small paring knife. Or you
  can slip it off with your fingers. Leave the peach whole or cut in
  half, depending on use.
  
   To retain color, dip peaches into or sprinkle with citrus juice or
  commercial ascorbic acid. A pound of peaches equals 2 large, 3
  medium, or 2 cups peeled and sliced.
  
  HOW TO PICK A FRESH PEACH If you are going to U-pick peach orchards,
  be sure to ask how to pick the peaches. the fruit will not have the
  quality and sweetness if you pick them before they are ripe. red
  color is not a sign of ripeness; blush (the red color) depends on the
  variety of peach and exposure to sun.
  
   When picking, a golden color indicates the peach is ripe. Fragrance
  is also an indication of ripeness. Don't use your fingertips to check
  firmness, peaches bruise easily. Hold peach in your whole hand, fruit
  should not be rock hard.
  
  STORING PEACHES: Purchase firm, ripe peaches; they can be held for a
  few days. to ripen further, keep fruit at room temperature; chemical
  properties allow them to complete the ripening cycle off the tree. To
  ripen a few peaches, place with other fruit in a loosely closed paper
  bag at room temperature. Ripe peaches should immediately be
  refrigerated.
  
   When picking peaches at the orchard, place them directly in shallow
  boxes and do not have more than two layers. Do not place in buckets.
  
   Check daily for ripeness because they do not ripen all at one time.
  If preserving, plan to freeze or can only those peaches that are
  fully ripe.
  
  HOW MUCH TO BUY: One pound of fresh peaches will equal 2 large or 3
  to 4 medium peaches; it will yield approximately 2 cups sliced or
  diced fruit or 1-1/2 cups pulp or puree.
  
   A 20 pound box of peaches will give you 8 to 10 quarts of canned
  peaches, or approximately 10 quarts of frozen peaches.
  
  Source: Oregonian FoodDay by Sharon Maasdam Typos by Dorothy Flatman
  1995 Submitted By DOROTHY FLATMAN   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fresh Apple Coffee Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Breakfast, Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine,
           -softened
      2 c  Sugar
      4    Eggs
      2 c  All-purpose flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      5 c  Peeled and chopped apple
           -(about 4 large Granny
           -Smith or Jonathan apples)
      1 ts Vanilla extract
  1 1/2 tb Sugar
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
 
  Beat the butter at medium speed with an electric mixer.  Gradually
  add 2 cups of sugar; beat well.  Add the eggs, one at a time, beating
  after each addition.
  
  Combine the flour, baking powder and salt; add to the creamed
  mixture. Stir in the apple and vanilla.  Spoon the batter into a
  greased and floured 13 x 9 x 2-inch pan.
  
  Combine the 1 1/2 tablespoons of sugar and the cinnamon; sprinkle
  over the cake batter.  Bake at 350F for 45 minutes or until a wooden
  pick inserted into the center comes out clean.  Serve warm or cold.
  
  Makes 15 servings.
  
  [Lucy Terry, Frankfort, Ky; Southern Living; Feb 1992] Posted by Fred
  Peters. From: Fred Peters Date: 08 Apr 94
  Submitted By GAIL SHIPP   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Horseradish
 Categories: Condiments, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 1 cup
 
      1 c  Finely ground horseradish
           Root (use finest blade)
  1 1/2 ts Brown sugar
      3 tb Vinegar
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Combine ingredients, and let stand overnight before using. It will be
  hot, very hot, for several days so go easy. Makes 3/4 cup.
  
  Source: Farm Journal's Country Cookbook Typos by Neysa
  Submitted By NEYSA DORMISH   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spotted Dog
 Categories: Desserts, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 9 servings
 
      1 c  Dark brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Water
      4 c  Toasted bread cubes
    1/2 c  Raisins
      1 c  Peeled and thinly sliced
           -tart baking apples
    1/4 c  Melted butter or margarine
      2    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Milk
      1 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Ground nutmeg
    1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese (1
           -oz.), optional
      1 qt Nonfat frozen vanilla yogurt
 
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. In small saucepan combine sugar and
  water and boil over medium-high heat until thick and syrupy (about 5
  minutes); set aside. In an 8 inch square baking dish layer half the
  bread cubes, syrup, raisins and apples. Repeat layering process with
  remaining bread, syrup, raisins and apples. Pour on butter; set
  aside. In a medium bowl combine eggs, milk, cinnamon and nutmeg. Pour
  over layered ingredients. Bake 35-40 minutes. During last 5 minutes
  sprinkle with cheese if used. Allow to cool 15 minutes. Cut into nine
  servings, put on individual dishes and add scoop of frozen yogurt to
  each serving. Serves 9.
  
  Per Serving: Calories 329, Protein 9 g, Carbohydrates 52 g, Fat 9 g,
  Dietary Fiber 1 g, Cholesterol 71 mg, Sodium 272 mg.
  
  SOURCE: *Modern Maturity, February-March 93 Posted By: Jim Bodle 3/93
  Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Nutmeg Sauced Apples
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Fruit, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Tart Baking Apples, peeled
           -cored and halved
    1/3 c  Water
      4 ts Sugar
      4 ts All-Purpose Flour
    1/2 ts Ground Nutmeg
  1 1/2 c  Light Cream
 
  Place apples in a 13" x 9" x 2" baking dish, add water. Bake covered
  at 350 degrees for 30 to 40 minutes or until tender. Remove from the
  oven and keep warm. In a small saucepan, combine sugar, flour, and
  nutmeg. Stir in cream. Cook and stir over medium heat until thickened
  and bubbly. Remove from heat. Serve warm over apples.
  
  Yield: 6 Servings.
  Submitted By ROBERT MILES   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Apples and Chestnut Puree
 Categories: Desserts, Fruit, Low cal/fat, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Fresh chestnuts OR
  1 1/2 c  Canned or bottled chestnuts
           --OR
      4 oz Dried chestnuts, cooked
    1/3 c  Soy milk
    1/3 c  Apple juice
      5 tb Maple syrup
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
    1/3 c  Raisins or currants
      6 ea Sweet apples
           Few tb lemon juice
           Additional cinnamon
    3/4 c  White wine
      3 tb Margarine
      1 ea Cinnamon stick
           Mint leaves & thin orange
           -- slices for garnish
 
  Preheat oven to 350F.  To prepare fresh chestnuts, cook covered, in
  water, for 20 minutes till expanded & lighter in colour.  To prepare
  canned chestnuts, cook in their liquid till heated through.  To
  prepare dried chestnuts, cook according to package directions.
  
  Drain & rinse hot chestnuts under cold water.  Cut off flat part with
  a sharp knife & scoop nut meat with a spoon.  In a food processor,
  combine chestnut meat with soy milk, juice, 4 tb maple syrup, 1 ts
  cinnamon & nutmeg.  Fold in raisins or currants.
  
  Peel apples & remove core from top, leaving the bottom intact. Hollow
  out the apple leaving a 1/2" shell.  Brush shell with lemon juice to
  prevent discoloration.  Sprinkle inside with a little cinnamon. Chop
  scooped out apple & mix with the chestnut puree.
  
  Fill apple shells with chestnut-apple stuffing.  Place in a grease
  proof dish & pour wine & remaining syrup around the base of the
  apples. Add margarine & cinnamon stick to the pan.
  
  Bake 30 to 40 minutes, basting occasionally with the wine mixture.
  Garnish & serve.
  
  "Vegetarian Times", December, 1993
  Submitted By MARK SATTERLY   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Asian Barbecued Duck
 Categories: Main dish, Chinese, Bbq/grill, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Ducks (5 lb each)
      6 oz Plum Jam
      1 c  Papaya Juice
    1/2 c  Rice Wine Vinegar
    1/4 c  Soy Sauce
      2    Inches Ginger
      4 tb Basil
      4    Cloves Garlic, Chopped
    1/2    Onion, Chopped
      1    Jalapeno Pepper, seeded
 
  Prick the ducks all over with a fork. Place in a steamer with about
  1" of water. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and cover.
  Simmer for 50 to 60 minutes. Cut the ducks into serving size pieces.
  Combine the remaining ingredients in a food processor. Puree. Place
  the duck pieces in a flat glass baking dish, Pour the marinade over.
  
  Let the duck pieces marinate for 1 hour, turning once during that
  time. Prepare the barbecue - it is NOT ready until ALL the coals have
  a THICK, even coating of gray ash.
  
  Place a drip pan in the center of the barbecue with the hot coals
  surrounding it. Place the duck pieces on the grid directly over the
  drip pan. Place the lid on the barbecue. Cook until the skin is brown
  and the duck is done to taste. Serve hot.
  Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duck Breasts baked in Salt
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, French
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 lg Duck Magrets**
           Freshly Ground Pepper
      3 lb Coarse Salt
      3 tb Herbes de Provence
      4    Egg Whites -=OR=-
           Water; to moisten salt
 
  ** Duck magrets are - correctly - the breast fillets from ducks
  fattened for the production of foie gras. They will come with a
  generous layer of sub-cutaneous fat, and be from specially bred large
  birds. In France, you can also get Filets de Canette, which are from
  ordinary ducks, and should not be used for this dish.
  
  Trim duck breasts and remove and odd hairs and feather stumps if
  needed. Score skin of breasts in a crisscross pattern at
  approximately 1" intervals, with a thin sharp bladed knife. DO NOT
  CUT THROUGH TO FLESH.
  
  Heat a large heavy frying pan over medium high heat. In dry pan,
  brown duck breasts (not more than 2 magrets at a time) skin side down
  for exactly 3 minutes. Pour off fat and reserve for making saute
  potatoes. Leave magrets until ready to finish cooking - 30 minutes
  before eating.
  
  Preheat oven to 450F, 230C Gas 8. Sprinkle browned breasts with
  pepper. Mix together the salt and herbs, and then add enough egg
  white (or water) to make the consistence of damp sand. Make a layer
  of salt about 1/2" thick on the bottom of a small roasting tin, just
  big enough to hold the two magrets side by side. On top of this salt
  layer, place your magrets, skin side up. Now cover them with the rest
  of the salt and press firmly to completely seal them with the salt.
  
  Roast exactly 17 minutes on the centre oven rack. Remove from oven;
  let stand 10 minutes on a rack (I use the hotbox). Now crack the salt
  above the magrets, remove them from their beds and wipe & brush as
  much salt as possible from them - use a paper towel.  (Optional -
  remove skins and remaining fat from magrets and) Carve them
  diagonally into thin slices and arrange overlapping slices in rows
  and sprinkle with pepper. Serve immediately.
  
  Note. In the Hotel de France in Auch, where we first had this recipe,
  chef Andre Daguin serves this with a sauce "Auchoise". This is a
  hollandaise sauce, but made with the duck fat instead of butter. It
  is stunning and has LESS cholesterol than the real hollandaise -
  which, however, you could also use. I serve with little (1cm) cubes
  of oven fried saute potatoes. Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Duck Pilaf
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5 lb Roast Duckling, Cooked
      1 ts Onion, Grated
      4 c  Water
      1 c  Pan Gravy From The Duckling
      1    Onion, Chopped
           Celery Leaves
           Salt
    2/3 c  Rice
           Paprika
      2 tb Butter
           Stewed Apricots
    3/4 c  Celery, Chopped Fine
 
  Remove the meat from the duckling after roasting, there should be
  about 2 cups. Break up the duck carcass. Add it to the water. Add the
  chopped onion and celery leaves. Cover. Simmer for 1 hour. Strain.
  Return to the boiling point. Slowly stir in the rice - do not slow
  the boiling. Cook until the rice is tender (about 30 minutes). Strain
  it. Reserve the liquor.
  
  Melt the butter in a skillet. Add the chopped celery and grated onion.
  Cover. Saute covered for 5 minutes. Add the duck meat, rice and pan
  gravy made from the pan drippings from roasting the duckling. Mix
  well with a fork. Season with salt and paprika. Serve hot with stewed
  apricots as a side dish or dressing.
  Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   07-19-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Ribbon Split Pea Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      1 tb Safflower oil
      1 c  Carrots, coarsely chopped
      1 c  Celery, coarsely chopped
  1 1/2 c  Onions, coarsely chopped
      1 lg Garlic clove, minced
      2 c  Cabbage, finely shredded
     10 c  Water
    1/2 ts Oregano, dried
    1/2 ts Summer savory, dried
    1/8 ts Sage, dried
    1/8 ts Tarragon, dried
    1/4 ts Celery seed
    1/4 ts Coriander, ground
    1/2 ts Sea salt
    1/4 ts Seasoned salt or
           -salt-free
      2 c  Green split peas
      1 ts Basil, dried

MMMMM-------------------------SEASONING------------------------------
           Fresh ground pepper to
           -taste
      1 ts Thyme, dried
      1 ts Marjoram, dried
      1    Vegetable boullion
      4 tb Parsley, fresh, minced
 
  Heat butter and oil together in a large soup kettle. Add the carrots,
  celery, onions, garlic and cabbage and saute', stirring frequently,
  for several minutes. Add the water, the split peas, the seasonings
  and the boullion. Bring to a boil. Cover and simmer over med heat for
  1 hour and 30 minutes, stirring frequently. Stir in the parsley and
  adjust the seasonings. This soup freezes beautifully so freeze any
  leftovers in an air tight container to be used for another meal.
  
  Source: Fit for Life by Harvey and Marilyn Diamond Typos by Neysa
  Submitted By NEYSA DORMISH   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: JK BARBEQUE SEASONING RUB
 Categories: Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  Salt
    1/4 c  Onion salt
      2 tb Garlic salt
      2 tb Celery salt
    1/3 c  Paprika
      2 tb Freshly ground black pepper
      1 ts Ground nutmeg
      1 ts Dried thyme, crushed
      2 ts Dried rosemary, crushed
      1 ts Lemon-pepper seasoning
    1/2 ts Horseradish powder
    1/4 ts Cayenne pepper
 
  "I use this recipe a lot." - James Kilgore
  
  For best results, grind or crush all ingredients to as uniform a
  grain as possible. Mix all ingredients well. Use a flour sifter to
  sprinkle on meat before cooking.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC ALL-AMERICAN BARBECUE SAUCE (MEXICAN)
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lg Onions; chopped
      3 tb Vegetable oil; for sauteing
      1    28 oz can tomato puree
      3    28 oz cans tomatoes; with
           -juice
  2 1/2 c  White vinegar
      4 tb Packed dark brown sugar
      4 tb Granulated sugar
      2 tb Salt
      2 tb Freshly cracked black pepper
      2 tb Paprika
      2 tb Chili powder
      4 tb Molasses
      1 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Liquid barbecue smoke
      8 tb Brown mustard; dijon-style

MMMMM-------------------VARIATION INGREDIENTS------------------------
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Chili powder
      4 tb Lime juice; about 2 limes
     10    Cilantro
 
  Recipe by: The Thrill of the Grill by Chris Schlesinger
  
  In a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan, saute the onion in the oil over
  medium-high heat until golden brown, about 7 to 10 minutes.
  
  Add all the remaining ingredients, bring to a boil, then reduce the
  heat and simmer uncovered at the lowest possible heat for 4 hours.
  (This long cooking removes as much acidity as possible from the
  tomatoes.)
  
  Puree sauce in 2, 3, or more batches to prevent it from spilling out
  of your food processor or blender.
  
  This sauce will keep 2 weeks, covered, in the refrigerator.
  
  Add variation ingredients after the sauce has cooled to room
  temperature or has been refrigerated.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC ALL-AMERICAN BARBECUE SAUCE (MEDITERRANEAN)
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lg Onions; chopped
      3 tb Vegetable oil; for sauteing
      1    28 oz can tomato puree
      3    28 oz cans tomatoes; with
           -juice
  2 1/2 c  White vinegar
      4 tb Packed dark brown sugar
      4 tb Granulated sugar
      2 tb Salt
      2 tb Freshly cracked black pepper
      2 tb Paprika
      2 tb Chili powder
      4 tb Molasses
      1 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Liquid barbecue smoke
      8 tb Brown mustard; dijon-style

MMMMM-------------------VARIATION INGREDIENTS------------------------
      4 tb Balsamic vinegar
      4 tb Red wine vinegar
      2 tb Garlic; minced
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 lg Fresh tomato; chopped
      4 tb Lemon juice; about 1 lemon
      1 c  Combined fresh herbs; *
 
  Recipe by: The Thrill of the Grill by Chris Schlesinger
  
  In a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan, saute the onion in the oil over
  medium-high heat until golden brown, about 7 to 10 minutes.
  
  Add all the remaining ingredients, bring to a boil, then reduce the
  heat and simmer uncovered at the lowest possible heat for 4 hours.
  (This long cooking removes as much acidity as possible from the
  tomatoes.)
  
  Puree sauce in 2, 3, or more batches to prevent it from spilling out
  of your food processor or blender.
  
  This sauce will keep 2 weeks, covered, in the refrigerator.
  
  Add variation ingredients after the sauce has cooled to room
  temperature or has been refrigerated.
  
  * Combined fresh herbs - basil, thyme, sage, parsley, oregano, or
  rosemary.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HOT GEORGIA BBQ SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Meats, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Lemon juice
    1/4 c  Ketchup
      1 tb Brown sugar
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Onion powder
      1 ts Tabasco sauce
    1/3 c  Vinegar'
    1/4 c  Water
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Cayenne
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Butter
 
  Combine all ingredients in a saucepan. Heat to boiling point. Use for
  BBQing chicken, pork, veal, beef or lamb.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MUSTARD BBQ SAUCE
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce, Poultry, Meats
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 tb Oil
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      4 cl Garlic; minced
      1 c  Tomato sauce
    1/4 c  Vinegar
      2 tb Maple syrup
      2 tb Molasses
    1/2 c  Dijon mustard
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 tb Tabasco sauce
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Malagueta pepper
    1/4    Seeded lemon; chopped
      1 ts Cumin
      1 ts Coriander
    1/2 ts Ginger'
    1/4 ts Paprika
 
  Saute onions and garlic in oil over low heat for 5 min. Add remaining
  ingredients and cook for 10 more min. Spread on meat during last
  10-15 min. of grilling or broiling or last 20-25 min. of baking.
  Makes 2 1/2 to 3 cups.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHADOWS TENNESSEE-STYLE BBQ SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Poultry, Meats
      Yield: 3 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
    1/2 c  Onion; minced
      4 cl Garlic; minced
      1 c  Chicken stock
  1 1/2 c  Catsup
      1 tb Tabasco sauce
    1/4 c  Molasses
    1/4 c  Red wine vinegar
    3/4 c  Water
      1 tb Liquid barbecue smokeae
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Brown sugar
      2    Bay leaves broken in half
      1 ts Paprika
      2 ts Dry mustard
    1/8 ts Thyme
      1 ts Cayenne
      1 ts Crushed red pepper
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Ground pepper
 
  In a large, heavy saucepan, melt the butter with the oil over medium
  heat. Add the onion, and saute until slightly caramlized, about 5
  min. Add the garlic and saute another 2 min. Add all the remaining
  ingredients, raise the heat, and cook at a full boil for 10 min.,
  stirring frequently. Reduce heat, partially cover,and simmer for 30
  min., stirring occasionally. Sauce may be refrigerated and reheated
  when needed. makes 3-4 cups.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SOUTH CAROLINA SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Meats, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    2/3 c  Prepared mustard
    1/2 c  Sugar
    1/4 c  Light brown sugar
      1 c  Cider vinegar
      2 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Pepper
      1 ts White pepper
    1/4 ts Cayenne
      5    Dr Tabasco sauce; to taste
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
      2 tb Butter
 
  Combine all ingredsients except soy and butter in saucepan and simmer
  10 min. Remove from heat. Stir in soy sauce and butter. Use as a
  basting sauce for BBQ meats or as a condiment when serving grilled
  pork, beef or chicken.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: ORANGE BARBEQUE SAUCE
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 oz Chili sauce (Heinz)
    1/4 c  Soy sauce
      2 tb Vinegar, Chinese black
    1/2 ts Gingerroot, grated
    1/4 c  Orange juice
    1/4 c  Molasses
      2 tb Onion, grated
      2 ts Sauce, hot pepper
 
  Combine all ingredients in a large saucepan. Stir to blend then bring
  to a boil and let it cool. Makes about 1 1/4 cups. Will keep for a
  brief period if refrigerated. Serve with Barbequed Ribs, roast
  chicken or beef.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MURRAY'S VOO DOO RIB SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Ketchup
      1 c  Chili Sauce
      1 ea Whole Spanish Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Molasses
      1 ts Corriander
      1 ts Cummin
      1 ts Chili Peppers
      1 ts Tobasco
    1/2 c  Honey
 
  Pepper Garlic
  
  Combine all ingredients. Simmer the ribs for 2 or 3 hours, then soak
  overnight in the sauce. Bake or barbecue the ribs.
  
  Typed for you by Bruce and Peggy Travers,Cyberealm BBS Watertown NY
  315-786-1120
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC ALL-AMERICAN BARBECUE SAUCE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lg Onions; chopped
      3 tb Vegetable oil; for sauteing
      1    28 oz can tomato puree
      3    28 oz cans tomatoes; with
           -juice
  2 1/2 c  White vinegar
      4 tb Packed dark brown sugar
      4 tb Granulated sugar
      2 tb Salt
      2 tb Freshly cracked black pepper
      2 tb Paprika
      2 tb Chili powder
      4 tb Molasses
      1 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Liquid barbecue smoke
      8 tb Brown mustard; dijon-style
 
  Recipe by: The Thrill of the Grill by Chris Schlesinger
  
  In a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan, saute the onion in the oil over
  medium-high heat until golden brown, about 7 to 10 minutes.
  
  Add all the remaining ingredients, bring to a boil, then reduce the
  heat and simmer uncovered at the lowest possible heat for 4 hours.
  (This long cooking removes as much acidity as possible from the
  tomatoes.)
  
  Puree sauce in 2, 3, or more batches to prevent it from spilling out
  of your food processor or blender.
  
  Will keep 2 weeks, covered, in the refrigerator.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BASIC ALL-AMERICAN BARBECUE SAUCE (HONEY MUSTARD)
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lg Onions; chopped
      3 tb Vegetable oil; for sauteing
      1    28 oz can tomato puree
      3    28 oz cans tomatoes; with
           -juice
  2 1/2 c  White vinegar
      4 tb Packed dark brown sugar
      4 tb Granulated sugar
      2 tb Salt
      2 tb Freshly cracked black pepper
      2 tb Paprika
      2 tb Chili powder
      4 tb Molasses
      1 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Liquid barbecue smoke
      8 tb Brown mustard; dijon-style

MMMMM-------------------VARIATION INGREDIENTS------------------------
      1 c  Brown mustard; (dijon style)
      8 tb Honey
 
  Recipe by: The Thrill of the Grill by Chris Schlesinger
  
  In a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan, saute the onion in the oil over
  medium-high heat until golden brown, about 7 to 10 minutes.
  
  Add all the remaining ingredients, bring to a boil, then reduce the
  heat and simmer uncovered at the lowest possible heat for 4 hours.
  (This long cooking removes as much acidity as possible from the
  tomatoes.)
  
  Puree sauce in 2, 3, or more batches to prevent it from spilling out
  of your food processor or blender.
  
  This sauce will keep 2 weeks, covered, in the refrigerator.
  
  Add variation ingredients after the sauce has cooled to room
  temperature or has been refrigerated.
  
  Posted by:  James Kilgore (ASXV66A) - Prodigy Reposted by:  Debbie
  Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pepperoni Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Appetizers
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 c  Water
    1/2    Stick unsalted butter
    1/2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Basil
    1/2 ts Oregano
      1 tb Sugar
      1 ts Salt
      3 c  Flour
      1 tb Yeast
 
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine From: Meg Antczak
  Date: 07-21-95 (22:21) (159) Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Samosas
 Categories: Breadmaker, Vegetarian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
    1/2 c  Evaporated milk
      2 tb Evaporated milk (if needed)
      3 tb Unsalted butter
      2 ts Sugar
    3/4 ts Salt
  2 1/2 ts Yeast
      3 c  Flour

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 md Idaho potatoes -- cut into
    1/2    " chunks
      1 c  Frozen peas
      2 tb Oil
      2    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      2 ts Fresh ginger root -- finely
           Chopped
      1 ts Dried coriander leaf
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Salt

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1    Egg -- beaten with:
      1 tb Water
 
  Place all dough ingredients in machine and program for knead and first
  rise.  Press start.  The dough will be quite firm but it should be
  moist enough to hold together.  Make the filling while the dough is
  rising. Place the potato cubes in a small saucpan and cover with
  water.  Bring to a boil over medium high heat, lower the heat to
  medium and continue cooking for 10 minutes, or until they have
  slightly softened but are not cooked through. Add the peas to the
  boiling water for the last minute of cooking. Drain the water from
  the potato cubes and peas.  Heat the oil in a large frying pan set
  over medium high heat and add the onions, garlic and ginger. Saute
  until the onions are translucent.  Add the potato cubes, peas,
  coriander, cumin, pepper and salt and stir until well mixed. Remove
  from the heat and cool slightly.  Turn the finished dough out on a
  lightly floured surface and divide it into 8 equal balls.  Let the
  balls rest 10 minutes. Preheat the oven to 350 with the rack in the
  center position. Lightly spray a large baking sheet with Pam.  On a
  lightly oiled work surface, roll each ball of dough to a 7" circle,
  rolling from the middle toward the edge. Distribute the filling
  evenly among the circles, about 3 heaping tbsp for each one. Lightly
  moisten the edge of each circle with water and fold over to form a
  semicircle.  Press the edges together firmly. Fold the pressed edge
  inward toward the filling and press with you fingertips to seal. Lift
  the samosas onto the prepared baking sheet and generously brush the
  tops with the egg glaze.  Bake the samosas for 15 minutes, or until
  they are a rich golden brown.  Serve hot from the oven.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-21-95 (22:21) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Hot Chile Pepper Twists
 Categories: Breadmaker, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Water
      2 tb Water (if needed)
      2 tb Oil
    1/3 c  Cilantro leaves -- lightly
           -packed
  1 1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
  2 1/4 c  Flour
  1 1/2 ts Sugar
      2 ts Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
     16 oz Black beans or refried beans
           -drained
     16 oz Black olives -- drained
  4 1/2 oz Green chiles -- chopped
    1/2 c  Salsa
      8 oz Monterey jack cheese --
           -shredded
 
  Place all dough ingredients except cilantro in pan.  Program for
  knead and first rise.  Program a kitchen timer to go off 10 minutes
  before the end of the machine's second kneading cycle.  Check the
  dough when timer goes off and adjust with flour or water if needed.
  Add the cilantro.  While the dough is rising, prepare the filling.
  When dough is finished transfer to lightly greased work surface.
  Divide the dough in half.  Working with one half at a time, roll it
  into a 15 x 10" rectangle.  Transfer the rectangle to a lightly
  greased cookie sheet.  Visually divide the rectangle into thirds,
  each 10 x 5".  Working on the middle third of the dough, and leaving
  1" of space at each end, layer on half the beans, half the olives,
  half the chilies, half the salsa and then half the cheese. Using a
  rolling pizza wheel or a sharp knife, make 6 evenly space 5" long
  cuts in the dough, cutting from the edge of one side of the unfilled
  sides just to where the filling starts.  Repeat with the other
  unfilled side. Fold the small piece of dough at each end of the
  filling, tucking them underneath the dough on the opposite side.
  Repeat the entire process with the other piece of dough.  Tent the
  twists with lightly greased plastic wrap and set them aside to rise
  for 1 hour,  or until they're noticeably puffy. Bake the twists in a
  preheated 375 oven for 30 minutes.  Remove the twists from the oven,
  transfer them to a wire rack, and allow them to cool for 10 minutes
  before cutting.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-21-95 (22:22) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gooey Cheese Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Water
      2    Eggs
    1/4    Stick unsalted butter
      1 ts Honey
      1 ts Salt
  2 1/2 c  Flour
      2 ts Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 c  Swiss cheese -- shredded
 
  Place all dough ingredients in pan and program for knead only.  Press
  start.  The dough will be slightly sticky.  After the kneading cycle,
  transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl, cover it with plastic
  wrap, and let it rise in the refrigerator overnight, or as long as 24
  hours. Grease and flour a 9" cake pan.  Preheat the oven to 375 with
  the rack in the center position.  Remove the dough from the
  refrigerator and place it on a lightly floured work surface.  Roll
  the dough to a 14 x 10 rectangle with the long side nearest you.
  Sprinkle 2 cups of the cheese over the surface of the dough.
  Starting with the edge closest to you, roll the dough up like a jelly
  roll.  Press the edges together and turn it over so the seam is now
  facing down.  With the seam still down, roll the cylinder around
  itself in a coil and tranfer it to the prepared pan.  Sprinkle the
  remaining cheese over the top of the loaf and allow to rise,
  uncovered for 20 minutes.  Bake for 35 minutes at 375, then turn the
  oven down to 350 and bake for 10 more minutes.  If the cheese begins
  to brown quickly during the first 35 minutes, turn the oven down
  sooner.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc From Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-21-95 (22:22) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pizza Rustica
 Categories: Breadmaker, Italian
      Yield: 8 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Milk
      2 tb Milk (if needed)
      2 tb Olive oil
      1 tb Rosemary -- chopped
      2 ts Salt
      1 tb Sugar
      3 c  Flour
      2 ts Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      1 lb Ricotta cheese
      2    Eggs
    1/2 c  Romano cheese -- grated
      1 tb Parsley -- chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
     15 sl Salami -- thinly sliced
     25    Basil leaves -- coarsely
           Chopped
     16 oz Roasted red peppers --
           Drained
     12 sl Provolone cheese -- thinly
           Sliced
           Salt and pepper
 
  Place all dough ingredients in pan and program for knead and first
  rise. The dough will be firm and pull away from the side of the
  machine.  While the dough is rising, prepare the filling.  In mixing
  bowl, whisk together all the ingredients and refrigerate until you
  are ready to assemble the pizza.  Preheat the oven to 400 with the
  rack in the center postion. Grease a 9" springform pan.  When the
  dough cycle is completed transfer the dough to a lightly floured work
  surface, cover it with a clean towel, and let it rest for 5 minutes.
  Cut the dough in 2 pieces; one piece should be one third of the dough
  and the other piece should be 2/3.  Roll out the larger piece to a
  14" circle.  Line the springform pan with the circle. A small amount
  of dough (1") should overlap the top of the pan. Arrange 5 slices of
  salami on the bottom.  Spread a third of the ricotta filling over the
  salami, then sprinkle on a third of the basil.  Lay out a third of
  the peppers.  Lay out 4 slices of provolone.  Repeat this pattern for
  the next 2 layers.  Roll out the small piece of dough to a 9" circle.
  Brush water around the rim of the dough already in pan, then fit the
  9" circle on top. Trim away about 1/2" of the overlapping dough from
  the bottom circle. Crimp together the top and bottom edges.  Brush
  the top of the dough with olive oil and salt and pepper.  With a pair
  of scissors, cut a vent in the top crust about 1" in diameter.  Bake
  for 15 minutes at 400, then at 350 for 15 minutes. Remove the pizza
  from the oven and immediately remove the sides of the springform.
  Cool before slicing to allow layers to set.
  
  Recipe By     : Pizza Etc from Your Bread Machine
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-21-95 (22:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Buttermilk Doughnuts
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 30 servings
 
      3    Eggs
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Oil
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      1 ts Ginger
      1 ts Nutmeg
      1 ts Vanilla
    1/2 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Salt
  5 1/2 c  Flour -- not sifted
 
  Preheat fat fryer to 350 degrees.  Mix the eggs, sugar, oil and
  buttermilk with a wire whisk until the sugar is dissolved and the
  yolks are broken up and distributed.  Add the spices, vanilla, baking
  powder, baking soda and salt; mix well.  Fold the flour into the
  mixture until the ingredients are no longer wet.  Let sit for 5-10
  minutes.  The batter will thicken by itself without needing more
  flour, which would toughen the doughnuts. Drop half the dough onto a
  floured board and knead lightly into a ball with folded ends
  underneath. Roll the dough into a round shape 1/2 inch thick. Cut
  with a doughnut cutter. Knead the leftover dough into the second half
  of the mixture. Repeat kneading and rolling. Be very sparing with the
  flour. Dust the dough very lightly, but don't overflour. Your dough
  should not be sticky if left to rest 5-10 minutes as instructed. Cook
  the doughnuts in hot oil, 1 inch deep in the pan. Brown the doughnuts
  for about 1 1/2 minutes on each side.
  
  Recipe By     : Yankee Magazine, 6/90, posted by Sandee Eveland
  
  From: Alison Meyer                    Date: 07-21-95 (09:45) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Sesame
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Lemon juice
           Water to make 1 cup
      2 tb Balsamic vinegar
    1/4 ts Molasses
      2 tb Onion -- grated
      1 ts Fresh lemon thyme -- minced
      1 ts Lemon zest
    1/4 ts Pepper -- freshly ground
      3    Whole skinless boneless
           Chicken breast -- halved
    1/4 c  Flour
      1 tb Corn oil
      2 tb Mustard seeds
    1/4 c  Sesame seeds
      2 ts Brown sugar
      2 ts Lemon zest
    1/3 c  Vermouth
 
  Combine first seven ingredients in a medium bowl.  Mix thoroughly.
  Add chicken breasts, coating carefully with the marinade.  Cover and
  refrigerate.  Allow to marinate for several hours.
  
  Drain chicken, pat dry, and discard marinade.  Add flour to a paper
  bag and toss chicken pieces a few at a time in the flour.
  
  Heat corn oil in a heavy nontsick skillet and saute chicken pieces on
  both sides until they are lightly browned.  Transfer chicken to a
  shallow ovenproof casserole.  Wipe out skillet with a paper towel.
  Add mustard and sesame seeds to skillet and cover.  Shake over medium
  flame until seeds are lightly browned.  Combine seeds, brown sugar,
  and lemon zest.  Sprinkle mixture over top of chicken.  Pour the
  vermouth into casserole, but not over the seeds. Bake at 350 degrees
  for 25 minutes or until tender.
  
  Recipe By     : Sage Cottage Herb Garden Cookbook, Dorry Baird Norris
  
  From: Alison Meyer                    Date: 07-21-95 (09:48) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Secret Salad (German Potato Salad)
 Categories: Side dish, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      5 lb Potatoes
    1/4 lb Bacon -- finely chopped
    1/4 c  Onion -- chopped
      1 tb Flour
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/4 tb Sugar
    1/4 ts Pepper
    2/3 c  Cider vinegar
    1/3 c  Water
    1/2 ts Celery seed
      3 tb Parsley -- chopped
 
  Cook potatoes in their jackets until tender.  Cool, peel and slice
  thinly. Fry bacon until crisp, add chopped onion and cook 1 minute.
  Mix the flour, sugar, salt, and pepper and blend in.  Stir in the
  vinegar and water.  Cook 10 minutes, stirring well.  Pour dressing
  over sliced potatoes and add the celery seed and chopped parsley.
  Toss and serve warm.
  
  Recipe By     : Sheila Exner
  
  From: Alison Meyer                    Date: 07-21-95 (09:49) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Sticks
 Categories: Appetizers
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           *****  NONE  *****
 
  Wash and peel sweet potatoes.  Cut into matchstick strips as for
  carrot sticks.  Place in a bowl of ice water to crisp until ready to
  serve. Serve them for snacks or as crudites on a relish tray or in a
  lunch.
  
  Recipe By     :
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Curried Sweet Potatoes
 Categories: Vegetables, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Sweet potatoes
      2 sm Onions -- thinly sliced
      1 tb Butter
      1 tb Curry powder
        pn Salt
      1 lg Tomato -- chopped
      2 tb Coconut milk
    1/2 c  Raisins
      3 dr Red pepper sauce --
           (tabasco)
 
  Peel potatoes and slice into 1 inch thick slices.  Steam for 15
  minutes. Set aside.
  
  Saute onion in butter.  Add curry powder and salt.  Saute for one
  minute. Add tomato and reduce heat to low.  Gredually add coconut
  milk, stirring constantly.
  
  add potatoes and simmer, uncovered, until they are tender and sauce is
  thick.  Stir in raisins and red pepper sauce.  Serve hot.
  
  Serve over steamed rice
  
  Per serving:  183 calories;  3 g protein;  73 mg sodium;  38 g carbo;
  3 g fat;  0 mg cholesterol;  37 mg calcium
  
  Recipe By     : Vegetarian Gourmet Magazine, Winter 1993 issue
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Risotto
 Categories: Rice, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Chopped onion
      2 tb Corn oil
      2 c  Sweet potato
      1 c  Short-grain rice -- brown
           Rice; uncooked
  2 1/2 c  Vegetable broth
    1/2 ts Black pepper
 
  Saute onion in one tablespoon of oil
  
  Peel sweet potatoes and cut into 1/2 inch cubes.  Add remaining one
  tablespoon of oil and potatoes to onion, and saute for 5 minutes.
  
  Add rice and saute for 2 minutes..  Add vegetable broth and pepper.
  Bring to a boil, cover and reduce heat.  Simmer until liquied is
  absorbed, about 40-45 minutes.  Serve warm, or chill and serve cold.
  
  Per serving:  238 calories;  4 g protein;  150 mg sodium;  44 g
  carbo; 0 mg chol;  4 mg calcium
  
  Recipe By     : Vegetarian Gourmet Magazine, June 1993 issue
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Of Sweet Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 md Sweet potatoes
      2 c  Vegetable broth
        pn Nutmeg
        pn Ground cloves
  1 1/2 c  Soy milk -- or 1% milk
           Salt -- to taste
 
  Peel and slice sweet potatoes. Place potatoes in dutch oven with
  broth. Bring to a boil, cover and reduce heat.  simmer until potatoes
  are tender, about 20 minutes.
  
  Place half of potatoe slices and half of broth in a
  blender/processor. add nutmeg, cloves, milk and salt.  Puree. Repeat
  with remaining potatoes and broth.
  
  Return to dutch oven, stir to blend. and reheat over low heat. Serve
  hot or chill and serve cold.  Superb!
  
  Per serving:  84 calories;  3 g protein;  154 mg sod;  15 g carbo; 0
  mg chol;  46 mg calcium
  
  Recipe By     : Vegetarian Gourmet Magazine,  Winter 1993 issue
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato And Pecan Casserole
 Categories: Vegetables, Casseroles
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Sweet potatoes -- boiled
      1 c  Packed brown sugar
      5 ts Cornstarch
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Ground cinnamon
      1 c  Apricot nectar
    1/2 c  Hot water
      2 ts Orange peel -- grated
      2 ts Margarine
    1/2 c  Pecans -- chopped
 
  Place cooked, sliced sweet potatoes in a 13 x 9 x 2 inch pan. In a
  saucepan combine sugar, cornstarch, salt and cinnamon. Stir in
  apricot nectar, water and orange peel. Bring to a boil, stirring
  constantly. Cook and stir 2 minutes more. Remove from heat; stir in
  margarine and pecans. Pour over sweet potatoes. Bake, uncovered, at
  350 degrees for 20-25 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     : Jo Anne Merrill
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mashed Sweet Potatoes With Pecans
 Categories: Vegetables, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 md Sweet potatoes -- approx.
           -2 lbs
      2    Eggs
      2 tb Barley malt syrup -- or
      3 tb Sugar
      2 tb Butter -- melted
        pn Salt
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Orange juice
      2 tb Honey
    1/2 c  Pecan halves
 
  Preheat oven to 425F. Bake sweet potatoes until tender - about 45-60
  minutes (or bake in microwave for approx 20 min or until tender).
  Remove skin and discard. Reduce oven to 375. Mash pootatoes and beat
  in eggs, syrup, one tablesppon margarine, salt and cinnamon. Add
  enough orange juice to moistend and make fluffy. Spoon into a 1 1/2
  quart baking dish and drizzle with honey and remaining one tablespoon
  margarine. sprinkle with pecans and bake for 20 min. Serve warm.
  
  Per serving: calories - 179 protein - 3g sodium - 178 mg carbo - 18g
  fat - 12 g cholesterol -71 mg calcium - 25 mg Recipe By
  : Vegetarian Gourmet Magazine  winter 1993 issue
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Pancakes
 Categories: Muffins, Breads, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  1 1/3 c  Soy milk -- light, or 1%
           Milk
      2 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Oatmeal -- quick oats
      1    Egg white
    1/4 c  Water
    1/2 ts Oil
      1 tb Maple syrup
    1/2 c  Pureed sweet potatoes
    1/2 c  Flour, whole-grain wheat
    1/2 c  Flour, all-purpose
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
 
  In large bowl, combine one cup soy milk and lemon juice.  Add to oats
  and let stand for 15 minutes to soften.
  
  whisk together egg white and water.  Add oil, maple syrup, puree sweet
  potatoes and remining 1/3 cup milk.  Mix.  Add to oatmeal mixture.
  
  In small bowl, combine flours and baking powder, baking soda and
  cinnamon. Add to oat mixture.  Add more milk if batter is too thick.
  
  Lightly oil a pan and preheat over med. heat.  for each pancake, pour
  about 1/4 cup batter onto pan.  When surfaceof pancake is bubbly and
  sides are firm, turn and cook on other side until golden.
  
  Keep pancakes warm while cooking remining batter.  Top with maple
  syrup, applesauce, etc... if desired.
  
  Per serving (2 - 4" pancakes): 237 calories; 10 g protein; 228 mg
  sodium; 46 g carbo;  2 g fat; 0 mg cholesterol; 125 mg calcium
  
  Recipe By     : Vegetarian Gourmet Magazine, Winter 1993 issue
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sweet Potato Spice Bread
 Categories: Muffins, Breads, Vegetarian
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/3 c  Molasses
    2/3 c  Honey
    2/3 c  Sweet potatoes, mashed
    1/3 c  Oil
      2    Eggs -- beaten
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Cloves
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Mace
      1 ts Freshly grated ginger
      1 c  Flour, whole-grain wheat
      1 c  Flour, all-purpose --
           Unbleached
      1 tb Baking powder
      1 c  Walnuts -- or pecans,
           Chopped
 
  Preheat oven to  325F.  Oil a 9X5X3 loaf pan.
  
  In a large bowl, blend molasses, honey , sweet potatoes, oil and eggs.
  
  In small bowl, combine remaining ingredients.  add to potato mixture
  and stir until well mixed.
  
  Spoon batter into  loaf pan and bake until a toothpick inserted in
  middle comes out clean - about 1 hour.  Turn onto wire rack to cool
  before slicing.
  
  Per slice:  223 calories;  5 g protein;  128 mg sodium;  31 g carbo;
  10 g fat;  27 mg cholesterol;  85 mg calcium
  
  Recipe By     : Vegetarian Gourmet Magazine, Winter 1993 issue
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberried Sweet Potatoes
 Categories: Vegetables, Vegetarian
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 md Sweet potatoes
      1 cn Cranberry sauce -- 15 ounce
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
    1/4 ts Grated orange peel
    1/2 c  Chopped toasted almonds
 
  Preheat oven to 350. Lightly oil a baking dish.
  
  Peel sweet potates and cut into 1 inch cubes. Steam until tender,
  about 25 minutes.  Place potatoes in baking dish.
  
  combine cranberry sauce, cinnamon and orange peel . Spoon mixture over
  potatoes and sprinkle with toasted almonds.
  
  Bake for 20 minutes.  Serve warm or at room temperature.
  
  Per serving:
  
  197 calories;  3 g protein;  87 mg sodium;  35 g carbo;  6 g fat;  47
  mg calcium
  
  Recipe By     : Vegetarian Gourmet Magazine, winter 1993 issue
  
  From: Phyllis Waugh                   Date: 07-22-95 (22:00) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice Cooler
 Categories: Beverages, Spanish, So. america
      Yield: 2 quarts
 
      2 c  White rice
      1 c  (about 4 oz)blanched almonds
      3 tb Ground cinnamon
      2 qt Milk; warmed OR hot water
    3/4 c  Granulated sugar;or to taste
      1 ts Vanilla extract
           Kahlua (optional)
           Ice cubes
 
  NOTE:
    Popular in Central America as well as Spain, this refreshing summer
  beverage deserves to become better known north of the border.  When
  the rice is steeped in milk rather than water the final result is
  tastier. Covered and refrigerated, the cooler keeps up to a week. Top
  it off with a splash of Kahlua, if you enjoy the liqueur.
  
  Wash and drain the rice.
  
  In a large bowl, combine the drained rice, almonds, and cinnamon with
  the warm milk or water and soak at least 6 hours, or preferably
  overnight. Drain, reserving liquid.
  
  Puree half the rice-almond mixture in a food processor or blender. Add
  about 1 cup of the reserved liquid and blend until as smooth as
  possible. Transfer the blended mixture to a bowl and repeat with the
  remaining rice mixture and liquid.
  
  Strain the mixture through 3 layers of dampened cheesecloth into a
  glass pitcher or jar, squeezing the cloth to extract all the milky
  liquid. Stir in the sugar and vanilla.  Chill and serve over ice
  cubes.
  
  Variation:  For a chocolate-flavored drink, add about 1/4 cup
  sweetened cocoa powder, or to taste, to the rice and almonds.
  
  ~ The Rice Cookbook (author unknown)
  
  typed and posted by teri chesser 7/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beef Chaing Mai
 Categories: Appetizers, Meats, Thai
      Yield: 24 appetizers
 
      1 lb Lean ground beef
    1/4 c  Wild rice, finely ground
           --w/grinder or blender
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts To 1 ts red-pepper flakes ~
    1/2 c  Sliced green onions
    1/2 c  Chopped fresh mint leaves
      2 tb Chopped fresh cilantro
    1/4 c  Fresh lemon juice
      2 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Dark Asian sesame oil
      2 lg Heads butter lettuce
           Salt and pepper ~
           Fresh mint leaves
 
  Prep: 20 minutes   Cook: 10 minutes   Cost 22 cents each for 24
  appetizers
  
  1. Saute' the beef in a large skillet for 5 minutes, until no longer
  pink. Stir in rice, sugar, pepper flakes, onion, mint, cilantro,
  lemon juice, soy, sesame oil, salt and pepper. Heat through, stirring
  frequently. Spoon into serving dish; set on a large platter. Surround
  dish with lettuce and mint leaves.
  
  2. To serve, have guests sppon a small amount of beef mixture and
  mint onto a lettuce leaf; roll up and eat out of hand.
  
  Nutrient Value per serving: 59 calories, 4g protein, 4g fat, 2g
  carbohydrate, 100 mg sodium, 14mg cholesterol. Exchanges: 1/5 meat.
  
  Recipe - Bob Bowersox, Family Circle Magazine, 4/22/95 typed in
  Home_Cooking by teri chesser 6/12/95
  Submitted By TERI CHESSER   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: White Goddess Salad Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sour cream
      1 tb Mayonaise
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Horseradish
           Generous pinch sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Chopped fresh dill
      1 ts Freshly ground pepper
           Worcestershire sauce
 
  Blend together all ingredients, with a couple of dashes of
  worcestershire sauce.  Serve over a crisp mixture of lettuce and
  spinach.
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   1 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb Lunar Cake
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 18 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------BATTER--------------------------------
    1/2 c  Butter or marg
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ea Egg
      1 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      1 ts Soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Buttermilk
      2 c  Rhubarb - cut in 1/2 inch
           -pieces
      1 tb Flour

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter or marg.
      2 ts Cinnamon
      1 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
 
  A big easy cake to make for a crowd.  Freezes well.  The name of this
  cake is derived from the buttery brown sugar topping that sinks into
  the cake as it bakes and forms a crusty layer reminiscent of a lunar
  landscape!
  
  Batter: Cream together butter and sugar until smooth and creamy.  Add
  egg and vanilla.  Sift together dry ingredients and add to butter and
  sugar mixture 1/3 at a time, along with buttermilk. Toss rhubarb with
  1 tbsp flour and fold into batter.  Spoon batter into a greased 9 x
  13 inch cake pan and smooth the surface.
  
  Topping: Blend together topping ingredients and sprinkle evenly over
  batter.
  
  Bake at 350F for 45 minutes or until cake has risen, browned and
  comes away from the edges, and skewer (or toothpick) inserted in the
  centre comes out clean. Source: Canadian Living - Summer/82
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  18 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 45mn Cholesterol
  per serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rhubarb and Orange Conserve
 Categories: Fruit, Can/preserv
      Yield: 9 servings
 
     11 c  Rhubarb, chopped in 1/2
           -inch pieces
      7 c  Sugar
      2 ea Oranges
    1/2 ea Lemon
      1 c  Water
      2 c  Golden raisins
      1 c  Coarsely chopped walnuts
           -(optional)
 
  In a large bowl, layer rhubarb and sugar; cover lightly and let stand
  overnight.
  
  Slice oranges and lemon thinly, discarding any seeds.  Transfer citrus
  fruit to large preserving kettle; pour in water, cover and cook over
  low heat for about 20 minutes or until rind is tender and
  translucent. Add sugary rhubarb and raisins, stirring well. Increase
  heat to high, and bring to full rapid boil. Adjust so conserve
  bubbles briskly and cook for about 20 minutes, stirring frequently to
  prevent scorching. Add nuts and cook for about 5 minutes more or
  until conserve thickens and sets.
  
  Immediatly pour into hot sterilized jars, leaving 1/2 inch headspace.
  Seal with paraffin or process in boiling water bath for 10 minutes.
  Makes 9 - 10 8oz jars. Source: Canadian Living Summer /82
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:   9 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry-Rhubarb Fool
 Categories: Fruit
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 ea White Cake Mix (2 layer
           -size)
      1 ea Coconut Cream or Vanilla
           -instant pudding (4 serv)
      1 ea Eggs
    1/4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Wesson Oil
      1 c  Flaked coconut
    1/3 c  Bacardi Dark Rum
           Frosting
      1 ea Coconut Cream or Vanilla
           -Instant pudding (4 serv)
    1/3 c  Bacardi Dark Rum
      1 ea 8oz can crushed pineapple
           -(in juice)
      1 ea 9 o Container frozen
           -whipped topping, thawed
      6 c  Chopped rhubarb in 1/2 inch
           -peices
  1 1/2 c  Strawberries
      1 ts Grated lemon rind
      3 tb Lemon juice
      2 tb Water
      1 c  Sugar
      2 c  Whipping cream
 
  In a heavy bottomed saucepan, combine rhubarb, strawberries, lemon
  rind and juice, water and sugar.  Cover and cook over low heat,
  stirring and occasionally, until fruit is tender, about 20 minutes.
  
  Cool, puree and taste, adding more (or less) sugar if desired.
  (Recipe may be prepared in advance to this point and refrigerated for
  4 or 5 days). Whip cream and fold into fruit.  Looks lovely served in
  stemmed glasses with any crisp buttery cookie.
  
  Makes 10-12 servings
  
  Calories     per serving:             Number of Servings:  12 Fat
  grams per serving:              Approx. Cook Time: 20 Cholesterol per
  serving: Marks:
  
  Submitted By LESLIE GRATTON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Papaya Creamsicle Smoothie
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit, Healthy
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      2 ea Papayas; ripe
    1/2 c  Orange juice
    1/2 c  Vanilla frozen yogurt
 
  PREP TIME:  5 minutes
  
  1.  Peel, seed and coarsely chop papayas.
  
  2.  Combine all ingredients in a blender or food processor and blend
  until smooth.
  
  PER SERVING:  251 calories; 1.5g fat; 5% calories from fat; 7mg
  cholesterol; 2.8g fiber.
  
  Source:  Karen Greene in "Fast!  Fresh!  Fruity!" (New Hope Press) as
  seen in "Delicious!  Your Magazine of Natural Living," July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Orchid Berry Flash
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit, Healthy
      Yield: 2 servings
 
    1/2 c  Peach juice
      1 c  Vanilla frozen yogurt
      1 c  Blueberries; fresh or frozen
      1 tb Protein powder
      2 tb Plain nonfat yogurt
 
  PREP TIME:  5 minutes
  
  Combine all ingredients in a blender and puree at high speed until
  smooth.
  
  PER SERVING:  229 calories; 2g fat; 8% calories from fat; 15mg
  cholesterol; 1.7g fiber.
  
  Source:  Karen Green in "Fast!  Fresh!  Fruity!" (New Hope Press) as
  seen in "Delicious!  Your Magazine of Natural Living," July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Banana Berry Nog
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit, Healthy
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 ea Frozen banana; cut up
    1/2 c  Plain nonfat or soy yogurt
    3/4 c  Fresh strawberries
        x  Grated nutmeg
 
  PREP TIME:  5 minutes
  
  Combine all ingredients in a blender and puree until smooth and
  creamy. Pour drink into a glass and dust with nutmeg.
  
  PER SERVING:  133 calories; 1g fat; 7% calories from fat; 0mg
  cholesterol; 2.4g fiber.
  
  Source:  Karen Greene in "Fast!  Fresh!  Fruity!" (New Hope Press) as
  seen in "Delicious!  Your Magazine of Natural Living," July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Roast Hummingbirds
 Categories: Game, Poultry, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      4    Hummingbirds*
      8 sl Bacon or salt pork
      1 tb Butter
           Small batch of rice or
           -bread stuffing; your
           -favorite recipe
 
  Draw and dry pluck the birds. Cover high exposed surfaces with bacon
  or salt pork around bird. Melt butter in skillet, put in birds and
  bake in a hot oven for about 5 minutes. Reduce heat to about 350F.
  and bake another 15 minutes. If birds are stuffed, bake 20 minutes.
  
  *If large Texas hummingbirds aren't available, you can substitute
  quail with good effect.
  Submitted By JIM WELLER   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mcdougall Bean and Rice Burritos
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 10 servings
 
      1 cn Pinto beans, 16 oz waterpak
      1 c  Brown rice; cooked
    1/2 c  Onions; frozen, chopped
    1/2 c  Gr. peppers; frozen, chopped
    1/2 c  Corn; frozen
           Chili powder; dash
           Cumin; dash
           Garlic powder; dash
    3/4 c  Water
           Salsa, oil-free, low sodium
     10    Tortillas, whole wheat

MMMMM---------------------OPTIONAL TOPPINGS--------------------------
           Lettuce, chopped
      1 bn Scallions; chopped
      1    Tomato; chopped
 
  Saute the frozen onions and green peppers in a few tablespoons of
  water in a skillet.  Drain and rinse the beans and place in a skillet
  and mash with a potato masher. Add the cooked rice, corn, spices and
  water. Heat 5 to 10 minutes until most of water is absorbed, stirring
  occasionally.
  
  Heat the tortillas quickly (just to soften) in a preheated skillet, a
  toaster oven, or a microwave. Place a line of bean mixture down the
  middle of each tortilla, add a teaspoon of salsa and any of the other
  toppings as desired.  Fold up 1/2 inch on each side, tuck in the top
  edge and roll into a burrito.  Serve immediately, topped with
  additional salsa if desired.
  
  The leftover bean mixture can be kept in the refrigerator and
  reheated in the microwave prior to assembly.
  
  The bean mixture can be adapted by changing the kind of beans (try
  kidney beans) or omitting the corn, or adding your favorite
  ingredient. I got more servings out of the recipe than the book got
  out of the original recipe, so I guess I put less mixture on each
  tortilla.
  
  From the recipe file of Val Rowe (adapted from _The McDougall
  Program_ MM 6/12/93 From the collection of Sue Smith, S.Smith34,
  Uploaded June 16, 1994 Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Shayna's Vegan Burgers Bmm
 Categories: Breadmaker, Vegetarian
      Yield: 12 burgers
 
MMMMM----------------------1 1/2 LB. DOUGH---------------------------

MMMMM---------------------------DOUGH--------------------------------
      1 c  Water (Zoji add 2 TBSP)
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
  1 1/2 c  Whole wheat flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Olive oil
      3 tb Sugar
      2 ts Red Star Yeast

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      2 c  Cooked black beans; drained
      2 c  Corn kernals; drained
      2 c  Cooked brown rice
    1/2 ea Large bell pepper; chopped
      2 ts Ground cumin
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Salt; optional
    1/2 c  Salsa or picante sauce
 
  1.)Place dough ingredients in bread pan and select Dough setting and
  start. 2.) Meanwhile, in a large bowl, combine filling ingredients.
  Set aside. Grease a large baking sheet.  When dough has risen long
  enough, the machine will beep. Turn off machine, remove bread pan,
  and turn out dough onto a lightly floured countertop or cutting
  board. 3.) Gently roll or stretch dough into a 12-inch rope.  Divide
  with a sharp knife, divide the dough into 12 pieces. 4.) With a
  rolling pin, roll each piece into a 6-inch circle. Place 1/2 cup
  filling mixture in the center of each circle. Pull the edges up to
  meet in the center and pinch dough together well to seal. Place on
  prepared baking sheet, sealed side down. Cover and let rise in a warm
  oven 15 minutes. 5.) Preheat oven to 400~. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes
  until brown. Remove from oven. Serve warm or cold with additional
  salsa and/or guacamole. These freeze well in a plastic bag for up to
  3 months. To reheat, place in a 325~ oven for 30 minutes or microwave
  on high power for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Filling variations: Vegetables:
  cooked carrots, brocoli, celery, cabbage, onions, peas, etc. Grains:
  cooked couscous, tabouleh, wild rice, white rice, bulgur, kasha etc.
  Legumes: cooked or canned kidney beans, garbanzo, pinto, lima, split
  peas Seasonings: curry, lemon pepper, chili powder, herbs, bbq sauce,
  spaghetti sauce, humus, tahini, etc.
  
  Nutritional information per burger Calories:216 Fat:3.1g Carbo:41.3g
  Protein:7.6g  Fiber:6.6g
  
  From: The Bread Machine Magic Book of Helpful Hints
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Three Bean Bake
 Categories: Vegetarian, Side dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     16 oz Can Great Northern Beans,
           -undrained
     16 oz Can Chili beans, undrained
           -(found in Mexican section
           -of store)
     16 oz Can Kidney Beans, drained
    1/3 c  Ketchup
    1/3 c  Firmly packed brown sugar
    1/2 ts Powered ginger
 
  MICROWAVE In 2 quart microwave safe casserole or dish, combine all
  ingredients.  Mix well.  Cover with Waxed Paper.  Microwave on HIGH
  for 8 - 11 minutes, stirring twice during cooking.  If thicker juice
  is wanted, Micro in two min increments on 80% power. Stir often.
  
  CROCK POT Combine all ingredients, mix well. Cover - cook on High
  setting for 2 hours.  If thicker juice is wanted, remove cover, cook
  1 hour longer, stirring occasionally.
  
  ==  Courtesy of Dale & Gail Shipp, Columbia Md.  === Converted by
  MMCONV vers. 1.50
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Salmon with Strawberry Mint and Cucumber Salsa
 Categories: Fish, Bbq/grill, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6    Salmon Fillets, skinless,
           -about 6 oz each

MMMMM---------------------------SALSA--------------------------------
      1    English Cucumber, finely
           -chopped
      1    Green Onion, thinly sliced
      1 tb Fresh Mint, cut into thin
           -strips
      4 tb Seasoned Rice Wine Vinegar
      2 c  Fresh Strawberries, hulled
           -and finely diced

MMMMM-----------------------BARBECUE SAUCE----------------------------
    1/2 c  Unsalted Butter
      1    Clove Garlic, finely chopped
      1 tb Honey
      2 tb Soy Sauce
      1 tb Fresh Lemon Juice
 
  For best results, prepare salsa 1 hour ahead. In a medium bowl, mix
  cucumber, green onion, mint and vinegar. Cover with plastic wrap and
  chill for 1 hour. Just before serving, stir in strawberries.
  
  To prepare barbecue sauce, in a small saucepan melt butter with
  garlic over low heat. Stir in honey, soy sauce and lemon juice and
  cook for 2 minutes. Set aside.
  
  Prepare fire in a charcoal grill. When coals are ready, brush sauce on
  salmon pieces and place in a well-oiled fish-grilling rack. Place
  rack over coals about 4 inches from fire and grill approximately 4-5
  minutes on each side. Brush with sauce again after turning, then
  baste again with barbecue sauce as it finishes cooking. You can tell
  when fish is done when it is just barely firm and resilient to touch.
  
  To serve, open rack and remove fish fillets with a spatula. Transfer
  to a warm platter and top with Strawberry, Mint and Cucumber Salsa.
  
  Source: "Berries: A Country Garden Cookbook" by Sharon Kramis
  (HarperCollins) Typed by Katherine Smith
  Submitted By KATHERINE SMITH   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Lamb Ribs
 Categories: Meats, Main dish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Onion; finely chopped
      1    Clove Garlic; minced
      1 tb Olive Oil
    1/4 ts Dry Oregano
    1/4 ts Ground Cinnamon
    1/8 ts Cayenne Pepper
  1 1/2 ts Firmly Packed Brown Sugar
      1 tb Balsamic Vinegar
    1/4 c  Catsup
      2 tb Dry Red Wine
  2 1/2 lb Lamb Spareribs; fat trimmed
 
  In a 1 to 1 1/2 quart pan over medium heat, cook onion and garlic in
  oil, stirring often, until soft but not brown, 6-8 minutes. Mix in
  oregano, cinnamon, cayenne, brown sugar, vinegar, catsup, and wine.
  Stirring, bring to a boil on high heat and cook 1 minute. Let cool
  slightly; if made ahead, cover and refrigerate up to 2 days.
  
  Brush lamb ribs all over with sauce. Place on a grill 4-6" above a
  solid bed of medium-hot coals. Cook, turning once and basting with
  any remaining sauce, until ribs are browned on all sides, 15-17
  minutes total for medium-rare. Watch carefully since meat is fatty;
  turn or move on grill to stop flare-ups. Cut ribs apart and pick up
  to eat (supply plenty of napkins.)
  
  Source: Unknown Typed by Katherine Smith
  Submitted By KATHERINE SMITH   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Deviled Eggs Hillcrest
 Categories: Appetizers, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      6    Eggs; hard boiled
    1/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 ts Dijon Mustard
      1 ts Prepared Pesto
      1 tb Parmesan Cheese; grated
    1/2 ts Lemon Juice
           Salt
           Pepper
           Parsley and Capers for
           -garnish
 
  Peel and halve eggs. Remove yolks to a small bowl and mash with a
  fork. Add mayonnaise and mustard, blending until smooth. Stir in
  pesto, cheese and lemon juice. Season with salt and pepper. Spoon
  into egg white shells and garnish with parsley and capers.
  
  Source: Medford Mail Tribune Typed by Katherine Smith
  Submitted By KATHERINE SMITH   On   07-20-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Corn on the Cob Cocoons (Miracle Whip)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      1 tb Lime juice
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Ground red pepper
           Corn, 4-6 ears, husked
 
       Heat grill.  Mix dressing juice and seasonings.  Place each ear
  of corn on 12-inch square piece of foil.  Brush dressing mixture on
  all sides of corn; roll foil around corn, sealing ends.
       Place corn on grill over medium-hot coals.  Grill 20 to 30
  minutes or until tender, turning 1/4 turn every 5 minutes.
  
  :       Prep Time: 5 minutes plus refrigerating**
  :       Grilling Time: 30 minutes
  
  ** NOTE:  The Prep Time says 5 minutes plus "refrigerating". However,
  the directions say nothing about it.  I suppose you could refrigerate
  the corn after the mixture is brushed on and it's been rolled in
  foil. I don't think it's necessary, though.
  
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Chicken Fajitas (Miracle Whip)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip Salad Dressing
    1/4 c  Lime juice
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
      1 ts Dried Oregano leaves,crushed
      1 ts Ground Cumin
  1 1/2 lb Chicken Breasts, boned,
           - and skinned
      1 ea Green, red, & yellow pepper,
           - quartered
      1 lg Onion, cut in 6 wedges
      4 ea Flour tortillas (8"),warmed
           Sour Cream
           Salsa
 
       Mix salad dressing, juice, garlic and seasonings; reserve 1/4
  cup. Pour remaining mixture over chicken.  Refrigerate at least 20
  minutes to marinate.
       Remove chicken from marinade; place on grill over medium coals.
  Grill, covered, 8 minutes.
       Toss vegetables with reserved 1/4 cup salad dressing mixture;
  place on grill.  Continue cooking chicken and vegetables 8 - 10
  minutes longer or until chicken is cooked through, turning chicken
  and vegetables occasionally.
       Slice chicken and peppers into strips.  Fill each tortilla with
  chicken and vegetables.  Top with sour cream and salsa: roll up.
  :         Prep Time: 15 minutes plus refrigeration
  :         Grilling Time: 20 minutes
  
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Grilled Greek Chicken (Miracle Whip)
 Categories: Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip Salad Dressing
      2 ts Parsley flakes
      2 tb Dry white wine OR water
      2 tb Fresh Lemon juice
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 tb Dried Oregano leaves,crushed
      1 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ea Chicken, cut up, skinned
           - about 3 1/2 pounds
 
       Mix all ingredients except chicken.  Pour mixture over chicken;
  cover. Refrigerate at least 20 minutes to marinate.
       Remove chicken from marinade; place on grill over medium coals.
  Grill, covered, 15 to 20 minutes on each side or until cooked through.
  :       Prep Time: 15 minutes plus refrigeration
  :       Grilling Time: 40 minutes
  
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Savory Grilled Potatoes (Miracle Whip)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip Dressing
      3 ea Garlic cloves, minced
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 lg Onion, sliced
      3 lg Potatoes, 1/4" slices
 
       Mix dressing, garlic and seasonings in large bowl.  Add potatoes
  and onion; toss to coat.
       Divide potato mixture evenly among 6 (12-inch) square pieces of
  foil. Seal each to form packet.  Place on grill over medium-hot coals.
       Grill, covered, 25 to 30 minutes or until potatoes are tender.
  
  OVEN DIRECTIONS:  Heat oven to 425.  Place foil packets on center
  rack in oven.  Bake 30 - 35 minutes, or until tender.
  
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Oriental Grilled Vegetables (Miracle Whip)
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetables, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      1 tb Soy sauce
      1 ts Peanut butter
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      4 dr Hot pepper sauce, to taste
      8 md Carrots, cut in half,
           - lengthwise
      2 ea Summer squash, cut in 1/2"
           - diagonal pieces
      2 ea Zucchini, cut in 1/2"
           - diagonal pieces
      1 ea Red onion, cut in thick
           - slices
 
       Mix all ingredients except vegetables.  Heat grill. Place
  vegetables on grill over medium-hot coals.  Grill 10 to 15 minutes or
  until vegetables are tender, turning occasionally and brushing with
  dressing mixture.
  
  :       Prep Time: 10 minutes
  :       Grilling Time: 15 minutes
  
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Herb Grilled Kabobs (Miracle Whip)
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Vegetables, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Boneless Beef Sirloin Steak
           - cut into 1 1/2" pieces
      1 md Zucchini, cut in 3/4" pieces
     12 md Mushrooms
      1 sm Red onion, quartered
      1 sm Yellow onion, quartered
    1/2 ea Red and Yellow Pepper, cut
           - into pieces
     12 ea Cherry Tomatoes
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
    1/2 c  Kraft House Italian Dressing
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
    1/8 ts Ground red pepper
 
       Arrange meat and vegetables on skewers.  Mix remaining
  ingredients. Place kabobs on grill over medium-high coals; brush with
  dressing mixture. Grill 10 to 15 minutes or to desired doneness,
  turning once.
       OVEN DIRECTIONS:  Heat broiler.  Place kabobs on rack of broiler
  pan; brush with dressing mixture.  Broil 5 to 7 inches from heat 10
  to 15 minutes or to desired doneness, turning once.
  :         Prep Time: 45 minutes          Grilling Time: 15 minutes
  
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Honey Mustard Chicken (Miracle Whip)
 Categories: Main dish, Poultry, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 c  Miracle Whip
      2 tb Dijon Mustard
           - OR Stone Ground Mustard
      1 tb Honey
      2 lb Chicken breast halves,
           - skinned
 
       Heat grill.  Mix salad dressing, mustard and honey.  Brush top of
  chicken with 1/2 of the dressing mixture.
       Place chicken, bone side up, on grill over medium coals.  Grill,
  covered, 15 to 20 minutes.  Brush with remaining dressing mixture;
  turn. Continue grilling 15 to 20 minutes or until chicken is cooked
  through.
       VARIATION:  Substitute boneless skinless chicken breast halves
  (about 1 1/4 lbs.) for the bone-in chicken breast halves.  Decrease
  cooking time to 8 to 10 minutes on each side.
       OVEN DIRECTIONS: Heat broiler.  Place chicken, bone side up, on
  rack of broiler pan.  Brush with 1/2 the mixture.  Broil 15 to 20
  minutes. Turn; brush with remaining mixture.  Continue broiling 15 to
  20 minutes or until chicken is cooked through.
  
  :       Prep Time: 5 minutes
  :       Grilling Time: 40 minutes
  
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Old-Fashioned Homemade Ice Cream
 Categories: Ice cream
      Yield: 6 quarts
 
      2 ea Eggs, beaten well
      4 tb Flour
  2 1/2 tb Vanilla
      3 c  Sugar (less for 5 qt freezer
           Milk (about 1 gallon)
 
       In saucepan, combine sugar and flour.  Stir well to break up any
  lumps.  Add 2 to 3 cups milk and eggs.  Cook, stirring constantly,
  until thick (usually until it comes to a boil).  Cool.  Add vanilla.
       Pour into freezer and add enough milk to fill freezer 2/3 to 3/4
  full. It usually takes our ice cream freezer from 25-40 minutes to
  get the ice cream done.
       This is a recipe we've used in our family since the 1950's.  I
  hope you enjoy it as much as we have!
       Typed for you by Sandi Cutright.
  Submitted By SANDI CUTRIGHT   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cranberry Nut Muffins
 Categories: Breads, Fruit, Muffins
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Whole Wheat Flour
    3/4 c  Sugar
  1 1/2 ts Baking Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Baking Soda
    3/4 c  Orange Juice
      1 tb Grated Orange Peel
      2 tb Shortening
      1 ea Egg; Large, Well Beaten
  1 1/2 c  Cranberries; *
      1 c  Nuts; Chopped, Optional
 
  *    Use either fresh or frozen cranberries that have been coarsely
       chopped. In a medium mixer bowl, mix the flour, sugar, baking
  powder, salt and the baking soda together. Stir in the orange juice,
  orange peel, shortening and the egg. Mix until well blended. Stir in
  the cranberries and the nuts, if used, and turn into greased muffin
  tins. Bake at 350 degrees F for 20 to 25 minutes or until done. Use a
  shorter baking time if small muffin tins are used.
  Submitted By BOBBI ZEE   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Consomm aux Cpes
 Categories: Main dish, Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
   1800 ml Fond de Volaille
     20 g  Cpes Sechs
           Sel et Poivre
      4 pn Cerfeuil Hache
 
  Mettre le bouillon de volaille dans une casserole adapt et porter 
  l'bullition. Cependant, laver les cpes sechs dans une passoire
  avec de l'eau froide. Les mettre avec le bouillon, et quand il
  commence  bouillir, reduire le feu au minimum et laisser mijoter.
    Mijoter sans couvercle  peu prs une heure et demie, jusqu' ce
  que le bouillon soit rduit a 2/3. Assaisonner soigneusement, et au
  moment de servir, saupoudrer le consomm avec une pince de cerfeuil
  sur chaque assiette.
  Submitted By IAN HOARE   On   07-17-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blue Cheese Butter
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats, Potatoes, Cheese/eggs, Dips/spread
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine;softened
    1/2 ts Lemon juice
    1/4 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/4 c  Crumbled Blue cheese
 
  To softened butter or margarine add lemon juice, worcestershire, and
  pepper.  Mix thoroughly.  Fold in blue cheese and mix just till
  combined. Serve with meat or baked potatoes.  Makes 1/4 cup. Source:
  BH&G Summertime Cooking. Typos by Elizabeth Wood.
  Submitted By ELIZABETH WOOD   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salmon Burger
 Categories: Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 4 or 5 servi
 
      1 cn Alaska Pink salmon, 15 1/2
           -oz
      1    Egg*
    1/2 c  Onion, chopped
    1/2 c  Green Pepper, finely
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Fresh whole bread crumbs
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 tb Lemon peel, grated
    1/2 ts Rosemary, crushed
    1/8 ts Pepper
 
  Choice of Toppings:
  
  :          Tomato, sliced
  :          Pickles, sliced
  :          Onion, chopped
  :          Cheese, sliced
  :          Pickle or mustard relish
  :          Catsup
  :          Mayonnaise
  :          Mustard
  :          Tartar sauce
  :          Thousand island dressing
  :          Lettuce
  
  Description:
  
  Serve salmon burgers as you would your favorite hamburger-with all the
  trimmings.
  
  Instructions:
  
  Drain salmon, reserve 2 tablespoons liquid; flake.  Combine salmon,
  egg, onion, green pepper, bread crumbs, reserved liquid, lemon juice,
  lemon peel and seasonings; mix well.  Form into 4 or 5 patties.
  Pan-fry in lightly oiled skillet about 5 minutes or until lightly
  browned; turn halfway through cooking time.  Top with choice of
  toppings.
  
  Source/Author: Alaska Seafood Marketing Institute / typo Bob Shiells
  
  Notes:
  
  Substitute egg white for whole egg for lower total fat and cholesterol
  content.
  Submitted By BOB SHIELLS   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackberry Mint Bisque
 Categories: Beverages, Fruit, Healthy
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 c  Blackberries
    1/2 c  Raspberry lemonade
  1 1/2 c  Plain nonfat or soy yogurt
        x  Fresh mint; chopped
 
  PREP TIME:  5 minutes
  
  1.  Puree blackberries and lemonade in a food processor or blender.
  
  2.  Pour fruit mixture into a medium saucepan and heat on low for
  about 5 minutes to blend flavors.  Remove soup from burner and whisk
  in yogurt. Remove soup from burner and whisk in yogurt.  Chill if
  desired. Serve topped with fresh mint.
  
  PER SERVING:  172 calories; 1g fat; 5% calories from fat; 0mg
  cholesterol; 6.6g fiber.
  
  Source:  Karen Greene "Fast!  Fresh!  Fruity!" (New Hope Press) as
  seen in "Delicious!  Your Magazine of Natural Living," July 1995.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Ken's Chili [Indx]
 Categories: Chili, Meats
      Yield: 4 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Course grd chuck
      2 cn (8oz) tomato sauce
     24 oz Water
      2 cn Jalapeno Pinto beans
           -& @liq.*
      2 lg Onion
      2    Garlic cloves, minced
      2 ts Red pepper
    1/2 c  Chili powder
      1 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 ts Cumin
      2 ts Mesa flour
 
  INDEX CARD
  
  Saute onions and garlic in lite oil till brown. Sear meat in large
  skillet.Add tomato sauce and water. Stir in all ingredients, except
  flour and beans*. Cover skillet and simmer 1 hour. Stir occasionally.
  Stir in flour into 1/4 cup warm water to make a thick, but flow able
  mixture. Add flour mixture to chili; simmer another 15 to 20 min.*Add
  bean and juice and cook another 15 min. Best when allowed to
  refrigerate for 24 hour but who can wait?
  
  *Optional
  
  Ken Strei's favorite Chili
  Submitted By KEN STREI   On   07-21-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Daube
 Categories: Meats, Pasta, Tomatoes
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 lb To 5 lb beef chuck roast
      1 tb Olive oil
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
    1/2 c  Chopped green pepper
      1    To 2 cloves garlic
      8 oz Can tomato paste
      8 oz Can tomato sauce
           Salt and pepper to taste
      4    Or 5 carrots
 
  Tried this recipe the other day.  I prefer a little more tomatoe-y
  sauce for spaghetti, but I thought the meat was divine. I omitted the
  carrots, just because I forgot them.  @:-)
  
  On the butcher's recommendation, I used a center cut chuck roast
  (which was 10 cents more a pound than blade cut).  Cut the bones off
  before cooking and have them stashed in the freezer for veggie soup
  later this winter.
  
  I made this in my cast iron Dutch oven.
  
  Sear roast in heated olive oil.  remove from pan and andd onions,
  green pepper, and garlic.  Fry until soft but now brown.  Add tomato
  paste and sauce.  Stir and cook about 5 minutes.  (MY NOTE: I've read
  elsewhere that this allows the sugar in the tomato porducts to
  crystalize, sweetening the sauce.)  Add meat, salt, and pepper. Add
  water to cover roast. Simmer about 5 hours.
  
  Thirty minutes before serving, add carrots. Serve with spaghetti.
  Shared by Ellen Cleary
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHEESE ENCHILADAS
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     16    Corn tortillas
  1 1/2 lb Cheddar cheese, shredded
      1 bn Green onions, chopped
      4    Clove garlic, minced
    1/3 c  Oil
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Chili powder
     19 oz Enchilada sauce
      1 ts Salt
      8 oz Tomato sauce, canned
      1 c  Water
 
  Sauce:  Saute' garlic in oil, add flour and chili powder and mix
  well. Add enchilada sauce and tomato sauce, salt and water.  Let
  simmer for 1 hour. Can be made in quantities and frozen.
  
  Enchiladas:  Fry tortillas for a second in hot oil just until soft.
  Drain and pat dry on paper towels.  Mix cheese and onion.  Put
  approximately 1 heaping Tbsp. cheese mixture on each tortilla.  Roll
  and place seam side down in large baking pan.
  
  Cover enchiladas with sauce and sprinkle with additional shredded
  cheese. Bake at 400 degrees for 20-30 minutes, or until sauce is
  bubbly and cheese is melted.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHURROS
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Desserts, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Flour, sifted
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      3    Eggs
      3 c  (about) cooking oil for
           -frying
      1 c  Water
      5 tb Butter or margarine
           Confectioner's sugar, if
           -desired
 
  "Here's a recipe from a local Mexican resturant, called Listas, that
  I use to frequent." - Anne Nicol
  
  Sift together the flour and cinnamon.  Heat oil (1 inch in depth) in
  large heavy skillet to medium-high(375 degree). In a medium heavy
  saucepan, bring water to a boil over high heat; add butter and salt,
  allowing butter to melt.  Remove from heat.  Add dry ingredients;
  mixing well with whisk. Add eggs, one at a time, whisking well.
  Spoon into a pastry or piping bag, fitted with star shaped tip.
  Squeeze batter in a straight line into hot oil, making each churro
  about 6 inches in length.  Fry until churros are golden brown, about
  3 minutes, turning occasionally.  Drain well on paper towels and sift
  confectioners' sugar over churros.  Serve warm.
  
  Posted by:  Anne Nicol (BMVT87B) - Prodigy
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BILL CLINTON'S FAVORITE CHICKEN ENCHILADAS
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Canned whole green chilies
      1 lg Clove garlic, minced
     28 oz Can tomatoes
      2 c  Chopped onions
      2 ts Salt (divided)
    1/2 ts Oregano
      3 c  Shredded cooked chicken
      2 c  Sour cream
      2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
     15    Corn tortillas
           Vegetable oil
 
  Remove seeds from chilies and chop them.  In large skillet, heat small
  amount of oil.  Add chilies and garlic and saute'.
  
  Drain and break up tomatoes.  Reserve 1/2 cup liquid.  Add tomatoes,
  onion, 1 tsp. salt, oregano and reserved tomato liquid to the chilies
  and garlic. Simmer, uncovered, for 30 minutes or until thick.  Remove
  from the skillet and set aside.
  
  Combine the chicken with the sour cream, grated Cheddar cheese and
  other teaspoon of salt.
  
  Heat 1/3 cup oil.  Dip tortillas in oil until they become limp.
  Drain well on paper towels.
  
  Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
  
  Fill the tortillas with chicken mixture.  Roll them up and arrange
  side by side, seam down, in 9x13" baking dish. Pour chili sauce over
  enchiladas. Bake about 20 minutes or until heated through.
  
  From:  San Diego Union Tribune
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: TEX-MEX DIP
 Categories: Dips/spread, Tex/mexican, Vegetables, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 cn 10 1/2 oz. cans jalapeno
           -bean dip*
      8 oz Sour cream
    1/2 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 pk Taco seasoning mix
      6    Ripe avocadoes
      4 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      1 bn Chopped green onions
      1 lb Shredded cheddar cheese
 
  Spread bean dip in a 9x13" pan or two 8x8" pans (one can in each).
  In a medium bowl, blend the sour cream, mayonnaise, and taco
  seasoning mix. Pour oven bean dip and spread evenly.  Peel and seed
  the avocadoes; place in a large bowl and mash, getting the lumps out
  as much as possible.  Add the lemon juice, salt and pepper.  Pour
  over the sour cream mixture and spread evenly.  Spread the chopped
  green onion over all.  Top with shredded cheddar cheese. Serve
  chilled with tortilla chips.
  
  * = They now seem to make these in 9 oz.  If desired, use 3 9 oz.
  cans. Can usually be found in the potato chip aisle in the
  supermarket.
  
  Note:  If you are an olive lover, you can add some chopped or sliced
  drained black olives after the onions and before the cheese.
  
  From:  Debbie Carlson (adjusted from original recipe to my tastes)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SHREDDED BEEF FILLING
 Categories: Meats, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 md Onion -- chopped
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable oil
      2 c  Finely chopped or shredded
           -cooked
           -lean beef (leftover pot
           -roast are good)
      1 cn 4 oz chopped green chilies
      1 ts Ground cumin
      1 c  Canned or homemade enchilada
           -sauce
 
  Saute onion in hot oil in a skillet.  Blend in beef, chilies, cumin
  and enchilada sauce.  Simmer 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.  Use
  for Chimichangas, tacos, enchiladas or tamales
  
  Source:  Food Editor's Hometown Favorites. Posted by:  Norma Kelley
  (KZWT99A) - Prodigy
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: JULIO'S HOT CARROTS
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables, Tex/mexican, Chilies, Hot/spicy
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 lb Carrots -- * see note
      1 cn Jalapenos -- ** see note
      2 md Onions -- sliced thin
      2 tb Vegetable oil
      1 c  Vinegar
           Salt and pepper
 
  This recipe makes about 1 gallon of hot carrots.
  
  *Use fresh carrots which have been peeled and cut into slices on the
  diagonal.
  
  **one 12 ounce jar of whole jalapenos with juice.
  
  In boiling water, cook carrots to desired tenderness. Do not
  overcook, they should still be crisp.   Drain.
  
  In a large glass jar or glass bowl, combine carrots, jalapenos and
  juice, onions, oil and vinegar. Add salt and pepper to taste.  Chill
  at least 3 hours.
  
  From:  Julio's Mexican Restaurant, San Diego Posted by:  Jo Merrill
  (ECGJ65B) - Prodigy
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SUPER NACHOS
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizers, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1    Ripe avocado -- peeled
      1 ts Lemon juice
    1/2 c  Onion -- finely chopped
    1/2 c  Tomato -- chopped
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
     15 oz Pinto beans -- rinsed and
           -drained
    2/3 c  Water -- divided
      2 tb Vegetable oil
    1/2 lb Ground beef
      1 tb Chili powder
      7 oz Tortilla chips
      2 c  Cheddar cheese -- shredded
      1 c  Sour cream
 
  "I have been to many Mexican restaurants, but none has an appetizer
  as good as the Super Nachos served at Loma-Linda's just outside
  Toledo." - Pat Garcia
  
  In a small bowl, mash the avocado with lemon juice. Stir in the onion,
  tomato, salt and pepper; set aside. Mash beans with 1/3 cup water;
  place in a skillet and cook over medium heat until hot. Stir in oil;
  remove from the heat and set aside. In another skillet, brown beef;
  drain. Stir in chili powder and remaining water; cook until liquid
  evaporates. Line a baking sheet with foil. Arrange chips in a single
  layer. Top with teaspoonfuls of bean and meat mixtures. Sprinkle with
  cheese. Bake at 400 degrees until cheese is melted, about 4 min. Top
  with avocado mixture and sour cream. Serve immediately. 6-8 servings.
  
  From:  "Taste of Home" Magazine, June/July 1995
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  "TRASH BAG" TACO SALAD
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Salads, Meats, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 lb Ground beef
      3    Env. taco seasoning mix
      3    Heads lettuce, shredded
      3 c  (12 oz.) shredded cheddar
           -cheese
      3 c  Chopped tomatoes
      2 c  Chopped onion
      3 cn (4 1/4 oz. ea.) chopped or
           -sliced
           Ripe olives, drained
      2 cn (15 oz. ea.) ranch or chili
           -beans,
           Drained
     16 oz Bag corn chips
     16 oz Bottle Catalina salad
           -dressing
     12 oz Jar salsa
 
  "This is the simplest and most economical crowd-pleaser we've ever run
  across." - Margie Dodd
  
  Brown beef; drain.  Add taco seasoning and prepare according to
  package directions.  Cool.  Toss with remaining ingredients in a
  large plastic bag or container.
  
  From:  "Taste of Home" Magazine, April/May 1995
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  TEXAS TACO PLATTER
 Categories: Main dish, Meats, Tex/mexican, Tasteofhome
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
      1 lg Onion, chopped
 14 1/2 oz Can tomatoes with liquid,
           -cut up
     12 oz Can tomato paste
     15 oz Can tomato puree
      2 tb Chili powder
      1 ts Ground cumin
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
      2 ts Salt
     28 oz Can ranch-style beans,
           -undrained
 10 1/2 oz Pkg. corn chips
      2 c  Hot cooked rice

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPINGS-------------------------------
      2 c  (8 oz.) shredded cheddar
           -cheese
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1    Head iceberg lettuce,
           -shredded
      3 md Tomatoes, chopped
      2    1/4 oz can sliced ripe
           -olives, drained
      1 c  Picante sauce, optional
 
  "I've used this recipe many times, and everyone enjoys it." - Kathy
  Young
  
  In a large skillet or Dutch oven, brown beef and onion; drain.  Add
  next 7 ingredients; simmer for 1 1/2 hours. Add beans and heat
  through.  On a platter, layer the corn chips, rice, meat mixture,
  cheese, onion, lettuce, tomatoes and olives.  Serve with picante
  sauce if desired.
  
  From:  "Taste of Home" Magazine, April/May 1995
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  VIVA A LA CHICKEN
 Categories: Poultry, Casseroles, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10    Halves chicken breasts
      1    Dozen corn tortillas
      2 cn (10 3/4 oz. ea.) cream of
           -chicken
           Soup
      2 cn (10 3/4 oz. ea.) cream of
           -mushroom
           Soup
      2 c  Milk
      1    Onion, grated or chopped
           -fine
      2    7 oz cans green chili salsa
      1 lb Cheddar cheese, grated
      1    Cube chicken bouillon
      1 c  Boiling water
 
  Place chicken breasts in buttered baking dish - brush with melted
  butter; salt and pepper.  Bake at 350 degrees for 1 hour.
  
  Bone, skin and cut chicken into bite-size pieces; set aside.  Cut
  tortillas lengthwise into 1" strips; set aside. In a separate bowl,
  combine soups, milk, onion and chili salsa; mix well.
  
  In a small bowl, dissolve bouillon cube in 1 cup boiling water.  Place
  about 3 Tbsp. of this bouillon over bottom of a buttered 3-qt.
  casserole (throw rest of bouillon away). Place one half of the
  tortilla strips in the bottom of the casserole, 1/3 of the chicken,
  half of the soup mixture, remaining tortillas, remaining chicken and
  sauce. Top whole thing with grated cheese. Cover and refrigerate for
  at least 24 hours.
  
  Preheat oven to 300 degrees and bake for 1 1/2 hours or until heated
  through.
  
  Note:  I usually boil the chicken for about 45-60 minutes instead of
  baking it.  This renders a moister chicken and it's easy to skin
  after boiling. Mom used to serve this popular dish to company along
  with her Herb Bread and a green salad with her French Dressing. -
  Debbie Carlson
  
  From:  Mom (Dulcinea Ertz)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  SOMBRERO DIP
 Categories: Dips/spread, Tex/mexican, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 lb Spicy refried beans
      7 oz Salsa
      1 ts Salt
    1/4 c  Chopped onion
      1    Clove minced garlic
    1/2 c  Shredded Jack w/ Jalapenos
           -cheese
    1/4 c  Chpped green onions
           Shredded cheddar cheese
 
  Brown beef until crumbly; drain.  Add onion and garlic. Cook until
  onion is soft.  Add remaining ingredients.  Cook until hot and
  bubbly.  Spoon into chafing or fondue dish. Garnish with cheese and
  green onions.  Serve hot with tortilla chips.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title:  BEEF ENCHILADA CASSEROLE
 Categories: Casseroles, Tex/mexican, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
      1 md Onion, chopped
      1 lb Can refried beans
      1 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Garlic powder
           Oil
    1/3 c  Taco sauce
     19 oz Can enchilada sauce
      1    Dozen corn tortillas
     10 oz Cheddar cheese, grated
 
  Saute beef and onions; drain.  Stir in beans, salt, garlic powder,
  and taco sauce.  Heat until bubbly.  Add enchilada sauce.  In a
  separate fry pan, pour in enough oil to about 1/4" and heat.  Soften
  tortillas, one at a time, by quickly dipping in hot oil, turning, and
  draining on paper towels.
  
  In a 3 quart casserole, make layers of tortillas and meat sauce.  Top
  with grated cheese.  Bake at 350 degrees for approximately 45 minutes
  or until heated through.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tweezer's White Chili #2
 Categories: Poultry, Chili
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Large White Beans
      6 c  Chicken Broth
      1 lb Turkey Ham
      2 ts Wright's or Colgin smoke
           ;grilled, taste, BBQ
      2 ea Cloves Garlic, minced
      2 ea Medium Onions, chopped
      1 tb Olive Oil
      1 ea 4 oz. medium chilis, chooped
      2 ea Habanero's
      1 tb Cumin
  1 1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Ground Cloves
      1 ts Cayenne Pepper
      1 ts Chili Powder (or more)
      3 c  Monterey Jack
           Salsa
           Sour Cream
 
    Combine beans, broth, garlic and half the onions in a large soup
  pot. Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat, simmer until beans are soft (3
  hours or more) adding more broth if it's necessary.
    In a skillet, saute remaining onions in oil until tender.  Add
  chiles and seasonings and mix thoroughly.  Add the bean mixture.
  Simmer 1 hour or until it's just the way you like it.
    Salsa: You can use store-bought chunky Mexican tomato or make you
  own with your own peeled tomatoes, green chiles, onion, garlic, green
  onion, and fresh cilantro.
  Submitted By KEN KUBOS   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tweezer's White Chili #1
 Categories: Vegetables, Chili
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Large White Beans
      6 c  Vegetable Broth
      2 ea Garlic, minced
      2 ea Onions, chopped
      1 tb Olive Oil
      2 ea 4-oz. Green chilis, chopped
      2 ts Ground Cumin
  1 1/2 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts Ground Cloves
    1/4 ts Cayenne Pepper
    1/4 ts Chili Powder
      3 c  Grated Monterey Jack
           Salsa
           Sour Cream
 
    Comine beans, broth, garlic and half of the onions in a large soup
  pot. Bring to a boil.  Reduce heat, simmer until beans are soft (3
  hours or more adding more broth if it's necessary.
    In a skillet, suate remaining onions in oil until tender.  Add
  chilis and seasonings and mix thoroughly.  Add to bean mixture.
  Simmer 1 hour or until it's just the way to like it.  Serve topped
  with grated cheese, salsa and sour cream.
    Salsa: You can use store-brought chunky Mexico tomato or make your
  own with peeled tomatoes, green chilis, onion, garlic, green onion
  and fresh cilantro.
  Submitted By KEN KUBOS   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Applesauce Bran Breakfast Cake
 Categories: Breakfast, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Margerine
      2 c  Applesauce; sweet or unsweet
      1 c  Flour; unbleached
  1 1/2 c  Unprocessed wheat bran
           -flakes or oat bran
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Cinnamon
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/4 ts Cloves
      1 c  Raisins
      1 c  Nuts; chopped
 
  Preheat the oven 350.  Grease the bottom only of a 9 inch square
  baking pan.
  
  In a large saucepan, heat the margerine and applesauce together over
  med heat until the margerine is just melted, then remove from heat.
  Add the remaining ingredients, stir quickly to moisten, then pour the
  batter into the baking pan.
  
  Bake 25-30 mins, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out
  clean.
  From the Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA French Toast
 Categories: Breakfast, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 2 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Soy milk
      2 tb Flour; unbleached
      1 tb Nutritional yeast
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 tb Veg oil
      4 sl Bread; to 6 slices, thick
 
  Mix the soy milk, flour, yeast, sugar and cinnamon vigorously with a
  wire whisk or beater.  Pour the mixture into a wide, shallow or pie
  pan.
  
  Heat the oil in a frying pan or skillet.  Dip a bread slice into the
  mixture and then place in skillet.  Fry each side until golden brown
  and crispy, about 5-7 mins total.  Remove from pan and keep warm
  while cooking remaining slices.
  
  Serve hot with maple syrup.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Hot Chocolate
 Categories: Beverages, Breakfast
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Unsweetened cocoa powder
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 ds Salt
    1/2 c  Water
      6 c  Vanilla soy milk
           ;tofu whipped cream; opt
           ;cinnamon sticks; opt
 
  In a 2 quart saucepan, stir together the cooca, sugar, and salt until
  well blended.  Add the water and stir until smooth.  Cook the mixture
  over med heat until boiling, stirring constantly with a spoon or wire
  whisk. Lower the heat and cook 2 mins more, stirring constantly.
  
  Stir in the soy milk and heat until tiny bubbles form around the edge,
  stirring constantly.  Remove the pan from the heat.  Beat with a wire
  whisk or electric mixer until smooth and foamy, then pour into 8
  ounce mugs.
  
  Top with whipped tofu and garnish with cinnamon sticks.
  
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Lentil Carrot Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian
      Yield: 10 servings
 
    1/4 c  Onion; finely chopped
    1/4 c  Grated carrots
    1/4 c  Water
      3 c  Cooked lentils, mashed
      2 tb Fresh parsley; chopped
      3 tb Tomato paste
    3/4 c  Bread crumbs
           ;salt to taste
           ;oil for frying
 
  Cook the onion and carrot in the water until tender, about 10 mins.
  Drain of excess water, then combine the onion and carrot with the
  remaining ingredients except oil.  Form into patties and fry in a
  lightly oiled frying pan until browned on both sides and heated
  through, about 10 mins. From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and
  Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA No Pork Sausage
 Categories: Breakfast, Vegetables, Sausage
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     10 oz Frozen lima beans; thawed
    3/4 c  Vegetable broth
    1/4 ts Sage
    1/4 ts Rosemary
      6 tb Cornmeal
      1 tb Veg oil; to 2T
 
  In a blender or food processor, coarsely chop the lima beans with the
  vegetable stock.  The lima beans should remain chunky.
  
  In a medium saucepan, heat the lima bean mixture, sage and rosemary
  until boiling.  Slowly beat in 4T of the cornmeal and cook until
  thickened and bubbly.  Cool to room temp.
  
  Sprinkle the rest of the cornmeal onto a pie plate.  Pat the lima bean
  mixture into 1/4 inch patties and coat each patty with some of the
  cornmeal on the pie plate.  In a large skillet, heat 1T of oil and
  fry the patties until lightly crisped and browned on both sides,
  about 5 mins. Add more oil if necessary.
  From the Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Onion Dip
 Categories: Dips/spread
      Yield: 3 cups
 
      1 lb Soft tofu
      2 tb Lemon juice
      2 ts Sugar
    1/2 ts Soy sauce; or tamari
      1 pk Vegan dry onion soup mix
 
  In a blender or food processor, combine tofu, lemon juice, sugar and
  soy sauce or tamari and blend until very smooth.  Pour the mixture
  into a serving bowl and stir in the soup mix.  Stir well and
  refrigerate for 4 hours.
  
  Serve with chips or raw veggies.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Pancakes
 Categories: Breakfast, Pcake/waffl
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Unbleached all purpose
           -flour
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Baking powder
    1/8 ts Salt
      1 c  Soy milk
      2 tb Veg oil
 
  Combine the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a bowl and mix
  thoroughly.  Mix in the soy milk and oil, and with an electric mixer
  or wire whisk, beat just until batter is smooth.
  
  Measure 1/3c batter onto a hot, oiled griddle.  When bubbled appear
  on the upper surface of the pancake, about 2 mins, flip.  Cook the
  pancake for another 2 mins.  Remove from pan and keep warm while you
  make remaining pancakes.  Serve warm with maply syrup or fruit syrup.
  
  Makes 6-8 pancakes.
  
  From the Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Peanut Butter Coffee Cake
 Categories: Breakfast, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/2 c  Brown sugar; packed
    1/2 c  Flour
    1/4 c  Peanut butter
      3 tb Margerine

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      1 c  Brown sugar; packed
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Baking soda
    1/4 ts Salt
      1 c  Soy milk
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
           Egg replacer equivalent
           -of 2 eggs
    1/4 c  Margerine
 
  Preheat the oven 375 degrees.  Grease a 9x13 baking pan.
  
  For the topping, mix the brown sugar and flour.  With a pastry knife,
  and fork, or your fingers, cut in the peanut butter and margerine
  until crumbly; set aside.
  
  For the cake, combine the flour, brown sugar, baking powder, baking
  soda and salt.  Add the soy milk, peanut butter, egg replacer and
  margerine. Beat until smooth, about 3 mins with and electic mixer.
  Pour into the baking pan and sprinkle with topping.
  
  Bake 30 mins, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out
  clean. From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkrik Typed
  by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Sloppy Joes
 Categories: Vegetarian, Sandwich
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Margerine; or water
    1/2 c  Onion; minced
    1/2 c  Green pepper; minced
      1 lb Firm tofu; patted dry and
           -mashed
      6 tb Ketchup
      6 tb Chili sauce
    1/2 ts Salt
           ;pepper to taste
      4    Burger buns; lightly toasted
 
  Heat the margerine or water in a large skillet over med heat.  Add the
  onion and green pepper and saute or broil until the veggies are well
  cooked, about 5 mins.  Add the mashed tofu and saute for another 15
  mins, until the tofu is completely cooked.
  
  Add the ketchup, chili sauce, salt, and pepper and continue to cook
  over low heat until the mixture is heated thru.  Add a little water
  if the mixture is too dry.
  
  Spoon into burg buns.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Spanish Tofu Omelette
 Categories: Breakfast, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil; or water
      1 cl Garlic; minced
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      1 md Potato; sliced
    1/4 ea Green bell pepper; diced
      1 sm Tomato; chopped
    1/4 ts Oregano
      1 lb Soft tofu; patted dry
    1/4 c  Flour; unbleached
    1/4 ts Tumeric
      1 ts Nutritional yeast
           ;salt and pepper to taste
 
  In a frying pan over med heat, heat the oil or water and saute the
  garlic, onion, potato, and green pepper until the potato is cooked,
  about 10 mins.
  
  In the meantime, blend the reamining ingredients in a blender until
  smooth. Add the tomato and tofu mixture to the pan and cook, covered,
  over a very low heat until the omelette is set, about 10 mins.
  
  Serve with salsa.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Streusel Coffee Cake
 Categories: Breakfast, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 c  Soy milk
      1 tb Distilled white vinegar
    1/3 c  Soft tofu
  2 1/4 c  Flour; or w.w. pastry flour
  1 1/4 c  Brown sugar; packed
      3 ts Cinnamon
  1 1/2 ts Ginger
    1/2 ts Salt
    3/4 c  Veg oil
    3/4 c  Walnuts; chopped
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
 
  Preheat the oven to 350.  Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish.
  
  Place the soy milk, vinegar, and tofu in a blender and blend until
  completely smooth.
  
  In a large bowl, mix the flour, brown sugar, 2 1/2t of cinnamon,
  ginger, salt, and oil.  Work the mixture with a pastry knife, a fork,
  or your fingers until well blended.  Transfer 1 1/4c of this mixture
  to a small bowl and mix in the remaining 1/2t cinnamon and the
  walnuts. Set aside.
  
  To the remaining flour mixture, add the baking powder and baking soda,
  along with the blended tofu.  Mix until smooth.  Spread the batter
  evenly in the baking dish and sprinkle the reserved flour-nut mixture
  over the top.
  
  Bake for 30-35 mins, or until a cake tester inserted in the center
  comes out clean.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Tofu Fruit Spread
 Categories: Dips/spread, Condiments, Breakfast, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2    Sweet apples; peeled, cored
           -and chopped
      2    Ripe bananas; peeled and
           -sliced
    1/2 lb Soft tofu; drained and
           -crumbled
    1/2 ts Cinnamon
      1    Whole clove
    1/8 ts Nutmeg; grated
 
  Combine all ingredients in a blender or food processor and blend until
  smooth.  Chill.  Spread on top of your morning bagel or toast.
  From the Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Tony and Elaine La Russa's Tofu Onion Burgers
 Categories: Vegetarian, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Firm tofu; mashed well
      1 md Onion; chopped very fine
      2 tb Wheat germ
      2 tb Flour
      2 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Soy sauce; or tamari
           ;pepper to taste
           ;oil for frying
 
  Mix all the ingredients except oil in a bowl and form patties. Heat a
  little oil in a skillet and fry patties until brown and very crisp,
  about 10 mins.  Serve these burgers on buns or as patties with a
  sauce. From The Compassionate Cok by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by
  Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Tofu Scrambles
 Categories: Breakfast, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 lb Firm tofu; patted dry
           -and mashed
    1/8 ts Tumeric
      1 ts Onion powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Finely chopped veggies;
           -bell pepper, fresh
           -mushrooms, onions,
           -tomatoes, etc
 
  Place the tofu in a lightly oiled saute pan and cook over med heat
  for 3 mins.  Add the remaining ingredients, stir well, and cook for
  5-8 mins, until the veggies are thoroughly cooked and the tofu is
  heated thru.
  
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Vegetable Broth
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 2 quarts
 
    1/2 ts Parsley
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Black pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      2 lg Carrots; slices
      2    Stalks celery; sliced
      2 md White onions; sliced
      2 lg White or red potatoes;
           -quartered
      1 lg Clove garlic
    1/2 ts Salt
 
  Put the prepared vegetables and herbs in a large pot and add water to
  cover.  Bring the vegetables to a boil, uncovered.  Lower the heat,
  cover and simmer 1 1/2 hours.
  
  Strain thru a colander for a thin broth or stock.  For a richer broth,
  puree the mixture in a blender.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pasta With Korean Sesame Sauce
 Categories: Side dish, Vegetarian
      Yield: 4 servings
 
     10 oz Angel hair pasta
      1 tb Dark sesame oil
      3 tb White vinegar
      2 tb Hot bean paste
      2 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb Green onions -- sliced
      2    Cloves garlic -- finely
           Chopped
      2 ts Ginger root -- grated
      1 ts Sugar
      1 ts Pepper
      1 md Cucumber -- thinly sliced
 
  Cook pasta according to package directions until al dente.  Drain.
  Combine sesame oil, vinegar, bean paste, soy, onion, garlic, ginger,
  sugar and pepper in medium-size bowl.  Heat large skillet over medium
  heat.  Add sesame seeds; cook, shaking skillet occasionally, 2 to 3
  minutes or until toasted and golden.  Add pasta along with vinegar
  mixture to skillet, tossing to coat.  Garnish with cucumbers and
  serve.  172 calories and 8 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : Family Circle 4/25/95
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:15) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Multigrain Wheat Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Warm water
  1 1/2 tb Oil
  2 1/2 c  Bread flour
    1/3 c  7 grain cereal
    1/4 c  Whole-wheat flour
      1 tb Sugar
  1 1/4 ts Salt
      2 ts Yeast
 
  Recipe By     : Family Circle 3/14/95
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:17) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Basic White Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    3/4 c  Warm water
      3 tb Honey
      1    Egg
      2 tb Butter -- melted and cooled
      3 c  Bread flour
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Yeast
 
  Recipe By     : Family Circle 3/14/95
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:17) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Maple Oat Bread
 Categories: Breadmaker, Breads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Warm water
    1/4 c  Maple syrup
  1 1/2 tb Oil
      3 c  Bread flour
    1/2 c  Rolled oats
      1 ts Salt
      2 ts Yeast
 
  Recipe By     : Family Circle 3/14/95
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:18) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Sausage Vegetable Strata
 Categories: Main dish
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Bulk sausage (spicy)
      1 md Onion -- chopped
      1    French bread loaf -- sliced
           -3/4 inch thick
    1/2 c  Roasted red peppers -- cut
           -in 1/4 inch strips
      2 md Zucchini (about 2 cups) --
           -thinly sliced
      6    Egg
    3/4 c  Ricotta cheese
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
 
  Cook sausage and onion in 10" skillet over medium heat, stirring
  occasionally, until sausage is no longer pink; drain well.  Arrange
  bread slices in 11 x 7 baking dish.  Spread sausage mixture over
  bread.  Top with peppers and zucchini.  Beat eggs and ricotta cheese
  in medium bowl until blended.  Stir in milk.  Pour over mixture in
  baking dish.  Sprinkle with parmesan cheese.
  
  TO STORE: Cover tightly and refrigerate at least 2 hours but no longer
  than 24 hours.
  
  TO COOK: About 1 hour before serving, heat oven to 350.  Uncover pan
  an bake 45 to 55 minutes or until top is puffed and center is set.
  Serve immediately.
  
  Recipe By     : BC Do-Ahead Cookbook
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dilled Beef And Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 tb Oil
      1 lb Beef round -- cubed
      3 c  Beef broth
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
      2 ts Dried dill weed
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1    Bay leaf
      2    Stalks celery
      2 md Carrots -- sliced
     15 oz Black beans -- drained &
           -rinsed
    1/4 c  Sour cream
 
  Heat oil in dutch oven over medium heat until hot.  Cook beef in oil
  about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, until brown; drain.  Stir in
  broth, onion, dillweed, pepper and bay leaf.  Heat to boiling; reduce
  heat. Cover and simmer 30 to 45 minutes or until beef is almost
  tender.  Stir in celery and carrots.  Heat to boiling; reduce heat.
  Cover and simmer about 15 minutes or until vegetables are tender.
  Remove bay leaf and stir in beans.
  
  
  TO STORE: Refrigerator-store tightly covered no longer than 48 hours.
  Freezer-Cool soup 30 minutes.  Place in labeled airtight 2 quart
  freezer containers.  Freeze no longer than 2 months.
  
  TO REHEAT FROM REFRIGERATOR: Stove-About 25 minutes before serving,
  heat soup in 3 quart saucepan over medium heat, stirring
  occasionally, until hot.  Top each serving with sour cream.
  Microwave-About 15 minutes before serving, place in casserole. Cover
  and microwave on high 10 to 12 minutes, stirring after 5 minutes
  until hot.  Top each serving with sour cream.
  
  TO REHEAT FROM FREEZER: Stove-About 40 minutes before serving, dip
  container into hot water to loosen; remove container.  Cover and heat
  in 3 quart saucepan over medium heat, turning and stirring
  occasionally, until hot.  Top with sour cream. Microwave-About 35
  minutes before serving, remove lid from freezer container; place
  container upside down in 2 quart casserole. Microwave on HIGH 5
  minutes; remove container.  Cover and microwave on high 10 to 15
  minutes longer, breaking up and stirring every 5 minutes until hot.
  Serve with sour cream.  350 calories and 13 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : BC Do-Ahead Cookbook
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:23) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Chili
 Categories: Chili
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      2 lb Ground beef
      2 lg Onions -- chopped
      3 cn Tomatoes (28 oz each) --
           -undrained
      3 cn Beans (any combination 16 oz
           -each) - drained
     15 oz Tomato sauce
      4 oz Green chiles -- chopped
    1/4 c  Chili powder
      1 tb Cumin
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
           Shredded cheddar cheese
           Chopped green onions
 
  Cook ground beef and onions in 6 quart dutch oven over medium heat
  about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, until beef is brown and
  onion is tender; drain.  Stir in remaining ingredients except cheese
  and onion. Break up tomatoes.  Heat to boiling; reduce heat.  Simmer
  uncovered 1 1/4 hours. Spoon off fat if necessary.
  
  TO STORE: Refrigerator-Refrigerate tightly covered no longer than 4
  days. Freezer-Divide chili among 3 labeled airtight 2 quart freezer
  containers. Cool quickly.  Freeze no longer than 2 months.
  
  TO REHEAT FROM REFRIGERATOR: Stove-About 15 minutes before serving,
  cover and heat about 6 cups chili in 2 quart saucepan over medium
  heat 7 to 9 minutes, stirring occasionally, until hot.
  Microwave-About 15 minutes before serving, place chili in 2 quart
  casserole. Cover tightly and microwave on high 10 to 12 minutes,
  stirring every 4 minutes, until hot. TO
  
  REHEAT FROM FREEZER: Stove-About 45 minutes before serving, dip
  container into hot water to loosen; remove container. Cover and heat
  chili and 1/2 cup water in 2 quart saucepan over medium high heat 20
  minutes, turning and stirring occasionally. Uncover and heat about 15
  minutes lomger, stirring occasionally, until hot. Microwave-About 30
  minutes before serving, remove lid from 1 freezer container; place
  upside down in 2 quart casserole. Microwave on high 5 minutes; remove
  container. Cover and microwave 20 to 25 minutes, breaking up and
  stirring every 5 minutes, until hot. 295 calories and 13 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : BC Do-Ahead Cookbook
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:25) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sloppy Joes
 Categories: Sandwich
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
      1 sm Green bell pepper --
           -chopped
 14 1/2 oz Stewed tomatoes (mexican
           -style) - undrained
    1/4 c  Chili sauce
      1 ts Dried thyme
      2 ts Mustard
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/4 ts Celery seed
      1 tb Cold water
      1 ts Cornstarch
      6    Hamburger buns
 
  Cook ground beef, onion and bell pepper in 10" skillet over medium
  heat about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally, until beef is brown;
  drain.  Stir in tomatoes, chili sauce, thyme, mustard, worcestershire
  sauce and celery seed.  Heat to boiling; reduce heat.  Cover and
  simmer 5 minutes.  Mix water and cornstarch; stir into beef mixture.
  Boil and stir 1 minute.
  
  TO STORE:  Refrigerator-Refrigerate tightly covered no longer than 48
  hours. Freezer-Cool mixture 30 minutes.  Place in labeled airtight 1
  1/2 quart freezer container.  Freeze no longer than 2 months.
  
  TO REHEAT FROM REFRIGERATOR: About 15 minutes before serving, cover
  and heat beef mixture in 3 quart saucepan over medium heat, stirring
  frequently, until hot and bubbly. Microwave-About 10 minutes before
  serving, place beef mixture in 1 1/2 quart casserole.  Cover and
  microwave on high 8 to 10 minutes, stirring every 3 minutes, until
  hot and bubbly.
  
  TO REHEAT FROM FREEZER: Stove-About 20 minutes before serving, dip
  container into hot water to loosen; remove container.  Cover and heat
  in 3 quart saucepan over medium heat, turning and stirring
  occasionally, until hot and bubbly. Microwave-About 20 minutes before
  serving, remove lid from freezer container; place container upside
  down in 2 quart casserole. Microwave on high 5 minutes; remove
  container. Cover and microwave 10 to 15 minutes longer, breaking up
  and stirring every 5 minutes, until hot and bubbly. 375 calories and
  18 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : BC Do-Ahead Cookbook
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:25) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: 7 Layer Chef's Salad
 Categories: Salads
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 c  Lettuce -- bite size
      3 c  Spinach -- bite size
      2 c  Smoked ham -- chopped
      2 c  Cauliflower flowerets
      1 md Zucchini -- thinly sliced
      2    Eggs, hard-boiled -- Peeled
           & Sliced
    3/4 c  Mayonnaise
    1/2 c  Creamy italian dressing
      1 c  Cheddar cheese -- shredded
    1/4 c  Parsley -- chopped
 
  Mix lettuce and spinach in large glass bowl.  Layer ham and
  cauliflower on lettuce mixture.  Place zucchini in center of bowl.
  Arrange egg slices around edge of bowl.  Mix mayonaise and italian
  dressing; carefully spread over top of salad to edge of bowl.
  Sprinkle with cheese and parsley. Cover tightly and refrigerate no
  longer than 24 hours.  Toss before serving if desired.  780 calories
  and 70 grams fat.  (Yikes!!! Wish I'd seen that before I went to the
  trouble to type this in.  Oh well...)
  
  Recipe By     : BC Do-Ahead Cookbook
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:26) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Italian Chicken Rolls
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Skinless boneless chicken
           -breast halves
      2 sl Provolone cheese -- cut in
           -half
      4 sl Pastrami -- thinly sliced
    1/3 c  Italian bread crumbs
    1/4 c  Parmesan cheese -- grated
      2 tb Parsley -- finely chopped
 
  Grease square 8 x 8 pan.  Flatten each chicken breast half to 1/4"
  thickness between plastic wrap or waxed paper.  Place 1 piece
  provolone cheese and 1 slice pastrami on each chicken piece.  Fold
  long sides of each chicken piece over pastrami.  Roll up chicken from
  short side; secure with toothpick.  Mix bread crumbs, cheese and
  parsley.  Dip chicken rolls into milk; coat evenly with bread crumb
  mixture.  Place seam sides down in pan.
  
  
  TO SERVE NOW: Heat oven to 425.  Bake uncovered about 30 minutes.
  
  TO STORE: Freeze unbaked chicken rolls uncovered about 1 hour or until
  firm. Wrap tightly and label.  Freeze no longer than 2 months.
  
  TO COOK: About 1 1/4 hours before serving, heat oven to 375.  Bake
  uncovered about 50 minutes. 310 calories and 15 grams fat.
  
  Recipe By     : BC Do-Ahead Cookbook
  
  From: Meg Antczak                     Date: 07-23-95 (22:26) (159)
  Fido: Cooking
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Dietetic Peanuts
 Categories: Diabetic, Chocolate, Nuts/grains, Candies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 lb Whitecoat chocolate coating
    1/2 c  Peanut butter
 
  In the top of a double boiler, melt coating over hot, not boiling,
  water. Add peanut butter and blend until smooth. Fill peanut molds
  almost full and chill in freezer until firm. Turn over and tap
  peanuts from molds. Makes about 75 peanuts. Source: Ideals Candy
  Cookbook by Mildred Brand Copyright-MCMLXXIX By Mildred Brand,
  Milwaukee, Wis. 53201
  
  From: Jeffrey Dean                    Date: 11-18-93
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-22-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Garlic
 Categories: Pickles, Can/preserv, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 2 half pints
 
    1/2 lb Garlic cloves
      1 lg Red pepper, seeded and
           Slivered
      2 c  White vinegar
    2/3 c  Granulated sugar
    1/2 ts Mustard seed
    1/2 ts Celery seed
 
   Peel garlic. Leave small cloves whole. Cut large cloves in half.
  Combine with red pepper.
   Measure vinegar and sugar into saucepan. PLace mustard seed and
  celery seed into cotton bag. Tie. Add to saucepan. Heat on
  medium-high, stirring frequently, until it boils. Boil 5 minutes. Add
  garlic and red pepper. return to a boil. Boil 5 minutes more. Discard
  spice bag. Fill hot sterilized jars with garlic and red peppers to
  within 1 inch of top. Fill with hot brine to 1/4-inch of top. Seal.
  Let stand several weeks before serving.
  
  Make 2 half pints.
  Source: Company's Coming by Jean Pare
  
  From the collection of Karen Deck
  Submitted By KAREN DECK   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Garlic (Gratiam Dong)
 Categories: Pickles, Herbs/spice, Can/preserv, Thai
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      7 oz Garlic cloves
      1 c  White granulated sugar
    3/4 c  Thai coconut vinegar
      1 tb Salt
      1 c  Water
 
    Peel the garlic, soak in salted water overnight, then rinse. In
  medium pan, combine the sugar, vinefar, salt and water. Bring to the
  boil, stirring, and when the sugar has dissolved, remove from heat
  and cool. PLace the garlic into a resealable bottle and cover with
  the liquid. Store in an airtight container in the refrigerator for 1
  month before using. Source: Classic Thai Cuisine by David Thompson
  ISBN 0-89815-563-0 Ten Speed Press
  
  From the collection of Karen Deck
  Submitted By KAREN DECK   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beans & Beef
 Categories: Healthy, Meats, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Ground beef
      1 lg Onion, diced
      2 cl Garlic, minced
    1/2    Green bell pepper, diced
    1/2    Red bell pepper, diced
      2 c  Canned no salt added
           -tomatoes
      1 c  Cooked kidney beans
    1/2 ts Chili powder or to taste
 
  Preheat oven to 350F. Spray a 1 1/2-qt. baking dish with Pam. Brown
  meat in a medium size skillet; drain off fat. Ad onion, garlic, bell
  peppers and tomatoes; cook 10 minutes. Add beans and chili powder.
  Spoon mixture into baking dish. Cover and bake 1 1/2 hours. Remove
  cover. Bake 20 minutes more. Serve hot. Makes 6 servings.
  
  Per serving without rice: Calories: 194 Protein: 23g Carbohydrates:
  12g Fat: 5g Sodium: 123mg Cholesterol: 47mg
  
  Cooking for Good Health by Gloria Rose ISBN: 0-89529-577-6 Entered by
  Carolyn Shaw 3-95
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer Bread
 Categories: Breads, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Self-rising flour
      3 tb Sugar
      1 cn 12 oz beer
 
  Mix all three ingredients.  Batter will be thick and lumpy.  Grease a
  standard size loaf pan (Pam works great)  Bake at 350 deg. for 50
  minutes, brush top with melted butter and bake for 10 more.
  
  Enjoy (we've had it every night this week!)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer-Herb Bread *****
 Categories: Breads
      Yield: 2 servings
 
MMMMM-----------------------*INGREDIENTS*----------------------------
      2 pk Dry yeast
    1/2 c  Lukewarm water
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Salt
     12 oz Great Western Beer, heated
           -to lukewarm
      2    Eggs, lightly beaten
      1 ts Sage
      2 ts Thyme
      3 ts Savory
      1 sm Onion, grated
      7 c  Flour (aproximately)
 
  Sprinkle the yeast over the lukewarm water and stir to disolve.
  combine the heated beer, sugar, salt and melted butter with the yeast
  mixture. Add the eggs, sage, thyme, savory, grated onion and 4 cups
  of the flour and beat until the mixture is smooth.  Add enough
  remaining flour until the mixture becomes difficult to beat.  Turn
  dough out onto a lightly floured board and begin kneading, adding
  enough of the remaining flour so that the dough does not stick to
  your hands or the board. Continue to knead until the dough is smooth
  and elastic. Place the dough in a oiled bowl, cover it with a damp
  cloth and let rise in a warm place until doubled in bulk. About 1 1/2
  hours. When the dough has risen, punch it down and let it rest for 10
  ~ 15 minutes.  Divide the dough in two pieces and shape each one into
  a round loaf.  Place each in a loaf pan and let rise until double.
  Bake the loaves in a preheated 400 degree oven for 35 minutes. Remove
  the loaves from pans, and let cool on wire racks. This bread should
  be served slightly warm. You may also freeze the loaves and reheat as
  needed. This dough also makes wonderful dinner rolls or hamburger
  buns Makes 2 loaves
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheesey Beer Bread
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Breads, Alcohol
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      3 c  Flour
      4 ts Baking powder
      2 ts Salt
  1 1/2    Grated cheddar cheese
    1/2 c  Freshly grated parmesan
           -cheese
      1 tb Dried parsley
      1 c  Beer
      1 tb Liquid honey
 
  Combine flour, baking powder, salt, cheeses and parsley. Stir in beer
  and honey until well mixed. Spread into a greased loaf pan. Bake at
  350 degrees F for 45 minutes until browned on the outside, and a
  toothpick inserted comes out clean. Turn out on a rack to cool.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cherry Cake (Beer Recipe)
 Categories: Alcohol, Fruit, Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Eggs
      2 c  Sugar
      2 ts Vanilla
      2 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      2 ts Baking powder
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 tb Butter, melted
      1 c  Beer
      1 c  Maraschino cherries
 
  Preheat oven to 375. Beat eggs until thick and lemon colored.
  Gradually beat in sugar. Add vanilla. Fold sifted flour, baking
  powder and salt into egg mixture. Heat beer. Add beer and melted
  butter at once to batter. Pour into greased cherry-lined tube or
  molded pan. Bake at 375 for 30 minutes. Turn out on cake rack to
  cool. Prick top of cake and drizzle with 4 tbsp of warm beer.
  
  From: Arizona Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cheese 'n Pretzel Beer Loaf
 Categories: Alcohol, Tex/mexican, Breads
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Beer
      1    Egg yolk
    1/2 ts Salt
      2 ts Melted butter
    2/3 c  Cheddar cheese, shredded
      1 pk Hot roll mix
      2 tb Crushed pretzels
 
  Preheat oven to 375. Put in large bowl. Sprinkle yeast from mix to
  warm beer. Stir to dissolve. Add egg yolk, salt, butter, cheese and
  hot roll mix. Blend well. Cover. Let rise in a warm place until
  double in bulk. Knead for 5 minutes of floured board. Place in
  greased 9x5x3 inch loaf pan. Cover. Let rise in a warm place until
  doubled in size.
  
  Bake 30 minutes at 375. Remove from oven and brush with one egg white.
  Sprinkle with two tablespoons crushed pretzels. Bake 5 more minutes.
  Turn out on wire rack to cool.
  
  From: Arizona Cookbook
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BEER POTATO SALAD
 Categories: Potatoes, Salads
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Potatoes
      2 c  Diced celery
      1 sm Onion, chopped
           Salt
      1 c  Mayonnaise
      2 tb Prepared mustard
    1/4 ts Hot pepper sauce
    1/2 c  Beer
      2 tb Chopped parsley
 
  Makes 8 servings
  
  Beer added to the dressing makes this potato salad a standout.
  
  Cook potatoes in skins until tender.  When cool, peel and dice. Add
  celery and onion and season to taste with salt. Blend mayonnaise with
  mustard and hot pepper sauce. Gradually stir in beer. Add parsley.
  Pour over potato mixture. Mix lightly with fork. Chill.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish, Bbq/grill
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8    To 10 chicken breasts
           (or your favorite parts)
    1/3 c  Butter, melted
           Juice from 8 medium lemons
           (or about 1 1/2 cups juice)
      1 cn Of beer
      1 ts Garlic salt
      1 ts Lemon pepper
 
  Combine butter, beer, lemon juice, garlic, lemon pepper.  Pour over
  chicken and refrigerate 4 to 6 hours.  Barbecue chicken, brushing
  sauce over pieces as you turn them.  Grill about 15 to 20 minutes per
  side.
  
  Good and simple recipe for grilled chicken.  Serve with broccoli-rice
  casserole and grilled Vidalia onions and you have a great weekend
  barbeque menu.  Add a salad and garlic bread and it's a fantastic
  weekend barbecue!
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer Braised Beef in Crock Pot
 Categories: Meats, Crockpot
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Ingredients:
      3 lb Lean beef stew meat cut into
           -1 1/2 inch pieces
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
      2 md Onions thinly sliced
      1    8 oz can mushrooms (or
           -pieces) un-drained
      1    12 oz can of beer
 
  (I prefer a dark beer, and my favorite dark beer is Negro Modelo, a
  Mexican beer) 1 Tbsp vinegar 2 beef bouillon cubes 2 tsp sugar 2
  cloves garlic, minced 1 tsp thyme 2 bay leaves
  
  Put the beef in the crock pot.  Combine all the other ingredients and
  pour over the beef.  Cook on low for 8-10 hours or on high for 4-5
  hours. Before serving thicken juices if desired.  Joyce says she uses
  some flour or corn starch to do this.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer Marinade for Beef (Cajun Style)
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 cn Beer (12 oz or 10 oz cans)
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Ground cayenne pepper
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      1 tb Prepared horseradish
      1 ts Onion powder
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Garlic powder
 
  Mix all ingredients together and use as a marinade. Then use as a
  basting sauce for the meat while it cooks.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: BEER AND PRETZELS CHICKEN-PERDUE
 Categories: Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1    Perdue chicken, cut-up
    1/3 c  Flour
      1 ts Paprika
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ginger
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Beer
      1    Egg
    1/2 c  Finely crushed pretzels
    1/4 c  Grated parmesan cheese
    1/4 c  Crushed bacon bits
      1 tb Dried parsley flakes
 
  ~The Perdue Chicken Cookbook
  
  Mix flour, paprika, salt, ginger and pepper in a mixing bowl. Add
  beer and egg, beat with a hand mixer to make smooth batter. Mix
  crushed pretzels, parmesan cheese, bacon bits and parsley in plastic
  bag. Dip chicken pieces one at a time in batter, the place in bag
  with pretzels mix and shake to coat. Place coated chicken pieces in
  shallow baking pan, skin side up. Bake, covered, at 350 F for 30
  minutes. remove cover. Continue baking, uncovered, approximately 30
  mnutes longer, or until done.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Spice Mix
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Hot/spicy, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 2 /3
 
  7 1/2 tb Paprika
      6 tb Garlic Powder
      6 tb Ground Black Pepper
      3 tb Ground Red Pepper
      3 tb Dried Thyme
      3 tb Dried Oregano
      3 tb Onoin Powder
 
  Blend all ingredients.  Transfer to small jar, seal tightly. Store in
  cool, dry place.  Makes about 2/3 cup.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun spice mix II
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 ts Black pepper
    1/2 ts Red pepper
    1/2 ts Garlic powder
    1/2 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Thyme (ground)
    1/4 ts Oregano
    1/4 ts White pepper
 
  Mix ingredients together and store in air tight container.
  
  This spice mix is loosly based on a spice mix from the Prudhomme
  Family Cookbook's recipe for Fried Catfish and Sweet Hushpuppies.  It
  can be used to season any seafood dish.  I also use it to season
  Porcupine Meatballs and other "cajun" inspired dishes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun seasoning
 Categories: Herbs/spice, Cajun/creol
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 c  (250ml) salt
    1/4 c  (63ml) cayenne pepper
    1/4 c  (63ml) black pepper
    1/4 c  (63 ml granulated garlic
    1/4 c  (63ml) onion powder
  1 1/2 tb (23ml) paprika
  1 1/2 tb (23ml) celery seed
 
  [ note:  use only dried seasonings ]
  
  In a food processor add salt and cayenne pepper. process for 30
  seconds. Add black pepper and granulated garlic and process another
  15 seconds. Add remaining ingredients and process another minute.
  Store in air- tight container. Use for gumbo,jambalaya,etouffe, or
  for your regular cooking. Can also be used like salt at the dinner
  table. makes about 2-1/4 cups (563ml)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: SANDIES
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Butter, softened (1 lb.)
      1 c  Powdered sugar
      4 ts Vanilla
      2 tb Water
      4 c  Flour
      2 c  Pecans, chopped
           Powdered sugar (approx. 3/4
           -lb. total needed
           For recipe)
 
  Cream butter and 1 cup powdered sugar.  Add the vanilla and water.
  Add flour; mix well and add pecans.  Pinch off approximately 1
  heaping Tbsp. dough.  Form small rolls, 1 1/2" long.  Or, roll into a
  ball and then between palms, flatten somewhat to form circular
  cookies.  Bake on an ungreased cookie sheet at 300 degrees for 20
  minutes. While hot, roll in additional powdered sugar to coat.  Let
  cool and store in container with waxed paper separating layers of
  cookies.
  
  ** This recipe has already been doubled from Mom's original recipe.
  You can't make too many of these rich cookies!
  
  From:  Mom (Dulcinea Ertz)
  
  Posted by:  Debbie Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MOM'S FAVORITE GINGERBREAD
 Categories: Breads, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Shortening
      2 tb Sugar
      1    Egg
      1 c  Black molasses
      1 c  Boiling water
  2 1/4 c  Flour
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 ts Ginger
      1 ts Cinnamon
           Dark brown sugar
 
  Mix the shortening, sugar and egg together.  Blend in the boiling
  water and molasses.  Sift dry ingredients together and stir into the
  wet mixture. Pour into well greased 9" square pan.  Sprinkle with
  brown sugar.  Bake in a preheated 325 degree oven for 45 to 50
  minutes.
  
  From:  Mom (Dulcinea Ertz)
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PEANUT BUTTER BALLS
 Categories: Candies, Chocolate, Desserts, Holiday
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Butter
      1 lb Creamy peanut butter
     12 oz Chocolate chips
      2 lb Powdered sugar
    1/3    Stick parafin wax
           Whole walnuts
 
  Melt together butter and peanut butter in a large pan.  Once melted,
  remove from heat and add powdered sugar; mix well.  It will look like
  cookie dough. Roll into balls the size of large walnuts.
  
  In a double boiler, melt the chocolate chips along with approximately
  1/3 to 1/2 stick of parafin.
  
  Dip balls with a toothpick into chocolate mixture and put on wax
  paper. Remove the toothpick and cover the whole with a whole walnut
  piece.
  
  From:  Jean Paluso Posted by: Debbie Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: NEW DUCHESS SPICE CAKE W/ MAPLE BUTTERCREAM FROSTING
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Sifted cake flour OR
  2 1/3 c  Sifted all-purpose flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking soda
  1 1/2 ts Cinnamon
    3/4 ts Nutmeg
    3/4 ts Cloves
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Brown sugar
    2/3 c  Shortening
      1 c  Buttermilk
      3    Eggs
 
  Grease and flour 2-9" layer cake pans or one 13x9" oblong pan.  Sift
  flour, sugar, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and salt
  together.  Add the brown sugar, shortening and buttermilk.  Beat 2
  minutes.  Add eggs. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.  Bake layer pans for
  30 to 35 minutes, oblong pan 45 minutes until cake tests done.  Cool.
  Frost.
  
  MAPLE BUTTERCREAM FROSTING:
  
  1/2    cup    Crisco shortening (regular only)
  1/2    cup    butter, softened
  1      tsp.   maple flavoring (like vanilla extract)
  4      cups   (1 lb.) powdered sugar
  2      Tbsp.  milk
  
  Cream butter and shortening.  Add maple flavoring. Gradually add
  powdered sugar.  Gradually add milk and continue beating until light
  and airy.  Add more milk if needed.  Color with paste colors.
  
  This icing is a light yellow and colors you add will be affected by
  this. For pure white icing, use 1 cup regular Crisco shortening and
  1/2 tsp. Wilton butter flavoring. This icing is somewhat stiffer.
  For blazing white, add Wilton White White. Wilton White White will
  also make the first buttercream recipe whiter, but be careful with
  colors as they will still tend to be yellowish.
  
  Note:  Excellent cake and frosting!
  
  Cake from the old '50's Betty Crocker Cookbook Frosting from ??
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MICROWAVE PEANUT BRITTLE
 Categories: Microwave, Candies, Desserts, Holiday
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Sugar
    1/2 c  White corn syrup
      1 c  Peanuts, roasted and salted
      1 ts Butter
      1 ts Vanilla
      1 ts Baking soda
 
  In a 1 1/2 qt. microwaveable casserole dish, stir together sugar and
  corn syrup.  Microwave on high for 4 minutes.  Meanwhile, lightly
  grease a cookie sheet (can also use an unbuttered non-stick coated
  cookie sheet). Stir in peanuts and microwave on high for another 4
  minutes, until light brown. Add butter and vanilla to syrup, blending
  well. Microwave on high 1 minute 45 seconds more. Peanuts will be
  lightly browned and syrup VERY hot. Add baking soda and gently stir
  until light and foamy. Pour mixture quickly onto prepared cookie
  sheet.  Let cool 1 hour.  When cool, break into small pieces and
  store in an airtight container.
  
  Cleanup isn't as bad as it looks!  Once casserole dish has cooled,
  fill with water and add all utensils used in preparation. Let soak a
  short while and the candy will all dissolve away!
  
  From:  General Electric Microwave Cookbook Posted by:  Debbie Carlson
  ~ Cooking Echo Makes:  Approximately 1 lb.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHRISTMAS GINGER COOKIES
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Holiday
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 c  Flour
      1 tb Baking soda
      1 tb Ginger
      1 ts Cloves
      1 ts Cinnamon
      1 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Solid shortening, Crisco
      1 c  Molasses
      1 c  Brown sugar, packed
    1/2 c  Water
      1 lg Egg
    1/2 ts Vanilla
 
  Mix flour, soda, spices and salt.
  
  Beat shortening, molasses, sugar, water, egg and vanilla until well
  blended. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Will be soft. Divide into
  fourths.  Pat each 1/4 into 1" thick round. Wrap in plastic and
  refrigerate at least 3 hours or up to 1 week.
  
  Roll on lightly floured surface to 1/8" thick, cut with gingermen
  cutters and bake at 350 degrees for 10-12 minutes.  Cool slightly on
  cookie sheet, then transfer to wire racks to cool completely.
  Decorate with Royal Icing.
  
  ROYAL ICING:
  
  3       cups    confectioners sugar 1/4 tsp cream of tartar 2 large
  egg whites food colors
  
  In large bowl, mix all ingredients until stiff.  Color and use to
  decorate cookies.
  
  Note:  GREAT RECIPE!  Makes a lot of cookies.  Dough is easy to
  handle and can be made ahead.
  
  From:  Linda Glover - Cooking Echo
  
  Posted by:  Debbie Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: FIVE POUND FUDGE
 Categories: Candies, Holiday, Oldies, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  4 1/2 c  Sugar
     12 oz Can evaporated milk
    1/4 lb Butter
      1    Jar marshmallow creme
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
     12 oz Milk chocolate bar
      2 c  Chopped pecans or walnuts
      2 ts Vanilla
 
  Cook sugar, milk, and butter to soft ball stage (234 degrees on candy
  thermometer), stirring constantly.  Take off the heat and add the
  remaining ingredients.  Stir quickly and thoroughly to blend.  Pour
  into a large baking pan or dish (I lightly butter it first).  Cool.
  Cut into squares and store in refrigerator.
  
  My favorite fudge recipe!!
  
  From:  Jackie Olden's Newsletter
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: LINDA'S NUT CRUNCH
 Categories: Candies, Desserts, Chocolate
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Butter
      2 c  Sugar
      6 tb Water
     10 oz Slivered almonds
     12 oz Semi-sweet chocolate chips
      1 c  Walnuts, chopped
 
  In electric skillet, melt butter.  Add sugar, almonds and water.
  Place candy thermometer into mix.  Temperature of skillet should be
  about 400 degrees.  Cook, stirring constantly to hard/crack stage on
  thermometer. Pour mix quickly onto a large jelly roll sheet (large
  cookie sheet with sides). Spread very quickly. Cool in refrigerator.
  Melt chocolate chips over double boiler. Spread over cooled candy and
  sprinkle walnuts while chocolate is still soft.  Press nuts into
  chocolate to secure. Cool again. Break into pieces and store in an
  airtight container.
  
  From:  Linda Rehberg, courtesy Debbie Carlson - Cooking Echo Makes:
  4 lbs.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: CHEESECAKE CUPCAKES
 Categories: Cake/cookie, Desserts, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      8 oz Cream cheese, softened
      2    Eggs
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Vanilla
     18    To 24 vanilla wafers
      1 c  Sour cream
      2 tb Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Whip together the cream cheese and 3/4 cup sugar.  Add the eggs, lemon
  juice and vanilla. Using foil liners only in muffin tin (don't use
  paper or paper inserts!), put 1 vanilla wafer in bottom of each
  liner. Put in 2 Tbsp. of cream cheese mixture on top of wafer in each
  liner. Bake in preheated 350 degree oven for 15-20 minutes. Center
  will sink a little when taken out of oven.
  
  Meanwhile, blend together sour cream, 2 Tbsp. sugar and 1 tsp.
  vanilla in a bowl.  Top baked "cupcakes" with this sour cream blend.
  Or, instead of using the sour cream blend, can top with cherry pie
  filling, other types of filling or grated chocolate.  Refrigerate.
  
  Note:  My "cupcakes" actually needed to bake about 30 minutes.  I
  doubled this recipe and came out with exactly 36 cupcakes.  I used
  one can of blueberry pie filling and the sour cream recipe above as
  is.  But, on the cupcakes I used the sour cream on, after letting
  them cool for 15 minutes, I put the sour cream on and popped them
  back in the oven for 5 minutes. The ones I used the fruit on, I let
  them cool for 15 minutes before topping them. - Debbie
  
  Makes:  18 From: Jean Paluso Posted by: Debbie Carlson
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: HELEN'S CHEESECAKE
 Categories: Cheese/eggs, Desserts, Pie/tart, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
    3/4 c  Pecans, coarsely ground
    3/4 c  Graham crackers, crushed
           (or boxed graham cracker
           -crumbs)
      3 tb Unsalted butter, melted
           Mazola no-stick spray

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      8 oz Cream cheese, at room
           -temperature
      4    Eggs
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Fresh lemon juice
      2 ts Vanilla

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      2 c  Sour cream
    1/4 c  Sugar
      1 ts Vanilla
 
  Crust:  Mix ground pecans, crushed graham cracker crumbs and butter
  together.  Press onto bottom of a 9" or 10" springform pan that has
  been sprayed generously with Mazzola No-Stick spray.  Set aside.
  
  Filling:  Preheat oven at 350 degrees.  Beat cream cheese in a large
  bowl with an electric mixer until smooth.  Add eggs, 1 1/4 cups
  sugar, lemon juice and 2 tsp. vanilla.  Beat thoroughly.  Spoon over
  crust. Set pan on baking sheet.  Bake 9" pan for 50-55 minutes or 10"
  pan for 40-45 minutes at 350 degrees. Remove from oven and let stand
  at room temperature for 15 minutes (leave oven on).
  
  Topping:  While cheesecake is baking, combine sour cream, 1/4 cup
  sugar and 1 tsp. vanilla.  Blend well.  Cover and refrigerate.  Once
  cake has stood at room temperature for 15 minutes, spread topping
  over. Return to oven and bake 5 minutes longer.  Let cool thoroughly
  then refrigerate for at least 24 hours or preferably 2 to 3 days.
  Remove from pan and enjoy!
  
  ***This recipe comes from an old Supervisor of mine (Helen).  She
  used this recipe to sell her cheesecakes professionally.  It appears
  rather basic but is a huge hit with any cheesecake officianado!  We
  used to have raffles as fundraisers for this cheesecake.***
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: MOPPING SAUCE FOR BARBECUE
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Bbq/grill, Tex/mexican, Beverages
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Strong black coffee
    1/2 c  Worcestershire sauce
      1 c  Tomato catsup
    1/4 c  Butter
      1 tb Freshly ground black pepper
      1 tb Sugar
      1 tb Salt
 
  Combine all ingredients and simmer 30 minutes.  Stir frequently.
  Store in a tightly covered jar in refrigerator until needed. Heat
  gently before using*.  This is wonderful, too, for oven roasts of
  pork, etc.
  
  [*Note:  We add about half a can of beer at this point.  K.B.]
  
  From:  THE WIDE, WIDE WORLD OF TEXAS COOKING by Morton G. Clark,
  Bonanza Books, New York. 1970.  LCC# 70-99574 Posted by: Karin
  Brewer, Cooking Echo, 12/92
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Rhubarb Coffee Cake
 Categories: Desserts, Beverages, Cake/cookie, Fruit
      Yield: 16 servings
 
MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      3 c  Sliced fresh or frozen
           -rhubarb, 1 inch pieces
      1 qt Fresh strawberries, mashed
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 c  Sugar
    1/3 c  Cornstarch

MMMMM----------------------------CAKE---------------------------------
      3 c  All-purpose flour
      1 c  Sugar
      1 ts Baking powder
      1 ts Baking soda
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 c  Butter or margarine, cut
           -into pieces
  1 1/2 c  Buttermilk
      2    Eggs
      1 ts Vanilla extract

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
    1/4 c  Butter or margarine
    3/4 c  All-purpose flour
    3/4 c  Sugar
 
  In a large saucepan combine rhubarb, strawberries and lemon juice.
  Cover and cook over medium heat about 5 minutes. Combine sugar and
  cornstarch; stir into saucepan. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly
  until thickened; remove from heat and set aside.
  
  In a large bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and
  salt. Cut in butter until mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Beat
  buttermilk, eggs and vanilla; stir into crumb mixture. Spread half of
  the batter evenly into a greased 13" x 9" x 2" baking dish. Carefully
  spread filling on top. drop remaining batter by tablespoonfuls over
  filling.
  
  For topping: Melt butter in a saucepan over low heat. Remove from
  heat; stir in flour and sugar until mixture resembles coarse crumbs.
  Sprinkle over batter. Lay foil on lower rack to catch any juicy fruit
  spillovers. Bake at 350 degrees, for 40-45 minutes. Cool in pan. Cut
  into squares. Yield: 16-20 servings.
  
  SOURCE: *Dorothy Morehouse, Massena, NY, Country Woman Magazine
  Mar/Apr 93 POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 5/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli-Rice Casserole
 Categories: Casseroles, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ea Jo Ferry
      1 c  Minute Rice; uncooked
      8 oz Cheese Whiz***
    1/2 c  Celery; chopped
    1/4 c  Onion; chopped
      1 pk Chopped broccoli; thawed
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
 
  ***You can substitute 1 can cheddar cheese soup. Mix everything
  together in a casserole dish and bake at 350 degrees for 40 to 45
  minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Wild Rice and Broccoli
 Categories: Rice, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    3/4 c  Wild rice
      1 c  Sliced celery
      2    10 oz packages frozen
           -broccoli spears, cooked
      3 tb Butter
      3 tb Flour
    1/4 ts Salt
      1    Chicken bouillon cube,
           -crushed
      2 c  Milk
    1/2 c  Parmesan cheese, divided
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Cook rice; stir in celery.  Spoon mixture into a greased, shallow, 2
  quart casserole.  Arrange broccoli over rice mixture.  In a small
  saucepan, melt butter, add flour, salt, and bouillon. Gradually add
  milk, stirring constantly until mixture becomes thick and smooth.
  Stir in 1/4 cup cheese and lemon juice. Pour over broccoli. Sprinkle
  with remaining cheese. Bake at 375 F for 20 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Sesame Chicken II
 Categories: Poultry, Nuts/grains, Fruit
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/4 c  Chicken stock
      6 tb Fresh lemon juice
      3 tb Sugar
      2 ts Grated lemon zest
      2 ts Plum sauce
    3/4 c  All purpose flour
      2    Eggs, beaten
    1/2 c  White sesame seeds
      2 ts Salt
      1 ts Ground white pepper
      4    Skinless, boneless chicken
           -breast halves
      6 tb Peanut oil
      1 ts Minced fresh ginger
      1 ts Minced garlic
      1 tb Cornstarch mixed with 1-1/2
           -tbps water
 
  Chicken breasts are lightly breaded and then pan fried to reduce the
  calories in classic lemon chicken. While it may be tempting to reduce
  the sugar in the sauce, remember that sugar accentuates the tartness
  of lemon.
  
  SAUCE
  
  sliced scallion greens for garnish
  
  combine the sauce ingredients in a bowl and reserve.  To prepare the
  breading, place 1/4 cup of the flour in a large shallow bowl or
  plate. In another bowl, beat the eggs, and in a third, combine the
  remaining 1/2 cup of flour with sesame seeds and salt and pepper.
  Arrange these next to each other on a counter. Wash the chicken
  breasts and trim any excess fat. Pound with a mallet or rolling pin
  to 1/4 inch thickness. Then dip, one at a time, first in the flour.
  Pat off any excess and dip in the egg. Lift the meat, allowing excess
  egg to drain back into bowl,and then dip and coat with the flour and
  sesame seed batter. Reserve on a platter. Heat 4 tbsp of the peanut
  oil in a 10 inch skillet over medium high heat. Fry the chicken
  breasts, two at a time, until golden,3-4 minutes per side. (Reduce
  the heat to medium if the chicken is browning to quickly) Reserve on
  a platter. While the last batch is finishing, heat the remaining 2
  tbsp of oil in a small skillet over medium heat. Saute the ginger and
  garlic until their aroma is released and then pour in the sauce.
  
  When it comes to a boil, reduce to lowest heat.  Drizzle in the
  cornstarch mixture while stirring constantly, and remover from heat
  as soon as the sauce thickens. To serve, slice each chicken breast
  into 1/2 inch strips along the width and place on dinner plates.
  Spoon on the sauce and garnish with scallions. Serves 4.
  
  Origin: Cookbook Digest, May/June 1993 Shared by: Sharon Stevens
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fry Chicken and Broccoli
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables, Rice, Wok
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Vegetable oil
  1 1/4 lb Skinless, boneless chicken
           -breasts, cut into
      1    Inch pieces
      2 c  Broccoli florets
    1/2 lb Fresh mushrooms, sliced
      4 ea Scallions, cut into 1-inch
           -pieces
      3 tb Soy sauce
      3 tb Dry sherry
    1/2 ts Ground ginger
      1 ts Cornstarch, dissolved in 2
           -tbsp water
      1 ts Oriental sesame oil
 
  1. In a large frying pan or wok, heat oil over medium-high heat. Add
  chicken cubes and stir-fry 3 minutes, until chicken becomes opaque.
  Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.
  
  2. Add broccoli; stir-fry 1 to 2 minutes. Add mushrooms, scallions,
  soy sauce, sherry, and ginger. Stir-fry 2 more minutes. Add dissolved
  cornstarch and reserved chicken. Cook until heated through and sauce
  has thickened. Serve over rice.
  
  Prep: 20 minutes        Cook: 20 minutes        Serves: 4
  
  Source: 365 Ways To Cook Chicken        ISBN 0-06-015539-6
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Chicken with Chilies and Peanuts
 Categories: Poultry, Chilies, Nuts/grains, Main dish, Wok
      Yield: 3 servings
 
      2 ts Soy sauce
  1 1/2 ts Corn starch
      1    Clove garlic, minced
      1    Piece fresh ginger, minced
           -(1/2-inch long)
      2    Whole chicken breasts,
           -boned, skinned,
           Halved, and diced
    1/4 c  Peanut oil
      1 c  Skinless raw peanuts
      4    Dried red chilies
      8    Dried Japanese mushrooms
      1 bn Green onions, sliced
      1 ts Rice wine vinegar
    1/2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Oriental sesame oil
           Freshly steamed rice
 
  Combine soy sauce, corn starch, garlic, and ginger in a medium bowl;
  mix well.  Add diced chicken, tossing to coat evenly.  Let stand at
  room temperature for 15 minutes.  Soak dried mushrooms in hot water
  for 15 minutes; drain well and thinly slice.  Heat oil in wok over
  high heat. Add peanuts; stir-fry until golden brown.  Remove peanuts
  with slotted spoon and set aside.  Add chilies and stir-fry until
  browned; remove with slotted spoon and set aside.  Add chicken, with
  marinade, and stir-fry for 2 minutes.  Blend in mushrooms, onion,
  vinegar, and sugar; stir-fry for 1 minute.  Return peanuts and
  chilies to wok, blending well.  Add sesame oil and continue cooking
  for 1 minute.  Serve immediately over freshly steamed rice.
  
  Makes 3 to 4 servings.
  
  [Bon Appetit  LIGHT AND EASY SPECIAL]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Stir-Fried Chicken Teriyaki
 Categories: Poultry, Vegetables, Wok
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/3 c  Vegetable Oil
    1/3 c  Soy Sauce
      2 tb Light Molasses
      2 ea Garlic cloves
      2 ts Ground Ginger
      2 ts Dry Mustard
      5 ea Chicken Breasts
           -(boneless/skinless, cut
           -into strips)
    1/2 c  Bamboo shoots
           -(canned/sliced)
  1 1/2 c  Thawed snow peas
      4 ea Green Onions (sliced)
      1 ea Fresh cooked Rice - to serve
 
  Combine first 6 ingredients in bowl. Add chicken to marinade and stir.
  Refrigerate at least 1 hour.  Drain Chicken, saving marinade. Heat
  half of marinade in Wok over medium-high heat. Add chicken and
  stir-fry 4 minutes. Add snow peas and bamboo shoots and stir-fry 1
  minute. Add green onion, stir fry until chicken is cooked through,
  about 1 minute. Serve with rice.
  
  Jeff Viets
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: STIR-FRIED CHICKEN SHREDS
 Categories: Wok, Poultry, Chinese, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    1/2 lb Boneless chicken breasts
           - skinned
      1    Egg white
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cornstarch
      6 oz Fresh bean sprouts
      4 oz Snow peas; trimmed
      6    Fresh water chestnuts; -OR-
      4 oz -Canned water chestnuts
           - (drained)
    2/3 c  Oil, preferably peanut
      1 ts Salt
 
  CUT THE CHICKEN INTO VERY THIN shreds and combine these with the egg
  white, salt and cornstarch in a bowl. Mix well and chill in the
  refrigerator for about 20 minutes. Meanwhile, trim the bean sprouts,
  finely shred the snow peas lengthwise, and shred or slice the water
  chestnuts. Heat the oil in a wok or large skillet and when it is
  almost smoking, add the chicken. Stir- fry quickly for 1 minute.
  Drain the chicken in a colander or sieve immediately. Pour off the
  oil, leaving 1 tablespoon in the wok. (The rest of the oil may be
  saved when it is cooled and used for future cooking with chicken.)
  Reheat the wok and stir-fry the vegetables for 2 minutes. Return the
  drained chicken to the pan, stir to mix well, and add the salt. Give
  the mixture a few more stirs and then turn it onto a warm serving
  platter.
  
  KEN HOM - PRODIGY GUEST CHEFS COOKBOOK
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pickled Garlic (Kratiem Dong)
 Categories: Pickles, Thai, Herbs/spice
      Yield: 6 servings
 
           Thai garlic cloves are 1/3
           -to 1/2 the size of ours
           -& there are correspondingly
           -more in a head.
 
  Here's something that might appeal those of you engaged in the Garlic
  Thread.  It's not for everyone, but if you're a true garlic fan, these
  munchies might be right up your alley.  Thai garlic comes in pods
  that are about the same size as Western garlic but the cloves are
  about The plus is that they don't have to be skinned before use.  The
  emphasis here is on the sour rather than the sweet.  Quite a taste
  sensation.
  
  1 cup white vinegar
  4 cups water
  1/4 cup granulated sugar
  1 tablespoon salt
  6 garlic pods (approximately 120 cloves depending on size), peeled
  
  In a medium saucepan, bring the vinegar, water, sugar and salt to a
  boil. Reduce heat and simmer for 5 minutes.  Drop in the garlic.
  Return to boil for 1 minute, then remove from heat.  Cool, and fill
  sterilized, screw-top jars.  Store in the refrigerator for at least 1
  week before eating. Continue to refrigerate, tightly covered, between
  serving.
  
  From "The Original Thai Cookbook" by Jennifer Brennan GD/Perigee,
  published by Putnam.  1981.
  
  Posted by Stephen Ceideburg April 11 1990.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Fajita Burgers
 Categories: Poultry, Tex/mexican, Bbq/grill, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Olive oil
      1 ea Onion,small red,chopped
      1 ea Bell pepper,small,chopped
      1 ea Garlic clove,minced
  1 1/4 lb Ground chicken or turkey
      1 tb Lime juice
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Salt
      4 ea Flour tortillas
      1 c  Salsa
      1 ea Guacamole
 
  1. Prepare a hot fire in a grill. In a large skillet, heat oil. Add
  onion and red pepper and cook over medium heat, stirring often, until
  vegetables are lightly browned, about 4 minutes. Add garlic and cook
  1 minute. Remove from heat and let cool slightly.~ 2. In medium bowl,
  combine cooked vegetables, ground chicken, lime juice, chili powder
  and salt. Using wet hands, form into 4 ovals about 2" wide and 4 1/2"
  long.~ 3. Place patties in center of oiled grill set 4-6" from coals.
  Cook, turning once, until browned, about 4 minutes. Transfer burgers
  to outside edge of grill and continue grilling, turning once, until
  burgers are cooked through and meat springs back when pressed lightly
  with a finger, 8 10 minutes. Meanwhile, wrap tortillas in aluminum
  foil and place on sides of grill to heat through.~ 4. Place warm
  tortillas and bowls of salsa and guacamole on table. Let each guest
  place a burger on a tortilla, top with salsa and guacamole, roll up
  and enjoy.
  
  From: Michael Orchekowski
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: GARLIC CILANTRO SALSA
 Categories: Salsa/sauce, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      6    Cloves Garlic, chopped
      3    Jalapeno Chiles, chopped
      4    Tomatoes, chopped
      1 ts Cumin
    1/2 c  Cilantro, chopped
      1 ds Lemon Juice
      1 ds Salt
 
  Combine all ingredients and whirr until smooth in a blender or food
  processor. Makes 2/3 cup.
  
  Source: San Francisco Chronicle
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken And Orange Salad
 Categories: Salads, Poultry, Tex/mexican, Main dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Scallions Or Green Onions; *
      2 tb Lime Juice
    1/4 ts Salt
      2 c  Cooked Chicken; Cut Up
      1 c  Green Peas; Cooked
      1 c  Mayonnaise Or Salad Dressing
    1/4 c  Carrot; Finely Chopped
    1/4 c  Celery; Finely Chopped
    1/4 c  Fresh Cilantro;FinelySnipped
      3 tb Orange Juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Cinnamon; Ground
    1/4 ts Pepper; Freshly Ground
           Lettuce Leaves
      3    Oranges; **
      2    Avocados; ***
 
  *   Finely chop the scallions or green onions including a few green
  tops. **  Oranges should be pared and sectioned, or can be unpared,
  cut into wedges. *** Avocados should be pared and cut into wedges.
  
  Sprinkle the scallions with the lime juice and 1/4 t salt; cover and
  refrigerate.  Mix the remaining ingredients except the lettuce,
  oranges and avocados and refrigerate at least 1 hour.  Spoon chicken
  mixture onto lettuce.  Garnish with oranges and avocados; sprinkle
  with scallions.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Black Bean and Papaya Burritos
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Poultry
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Skinless, boneless chicken
           -breast halves (12 oz total)
      1 c  Chicken broth or water
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 ts Ground cumin
      1    Inch flour tortillas
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 tb Cooking oil
      1 cn (15 oz) black beans or pinto
           -beans, rinsed and drained
      1    Or 2 jalapeno or serrano
           -peppers, seeded and finely
           -chopped
      1    Ripe medium papaya, seeded,
           -peeled, and thinly sliced,
           Or 2 oranges, peeled and
           -sectioned
      1 c  Shredded Monterey Jack or
           -mozzarella cheese (4 oz)
    1/4 c  Snipped fresh cilantro or
           -parsley
           Salsa (optional)
 
  Place the chicken breast, broth or water, bay leaf, and cumin in a
  medium skillet.  Bring to boiling, reduce heat.  Simmer, covered, for
  15 to 20 minutes or till chicken is tender and no longer pink. Drain,
  reserving broth.  Let chicken stand till cool.  Use a fork to pull
  chicken apart into long, thin strands.  Set aside.  Remove bay leaf
  from broth. Stack tortillas and wrap tightly in foil.  Heat in a 350
  deg oven for 10 minutes to soften. Meanwhile, in a large skillet cook
  the chopped onion in hot oil till tender; but not brown. Carefully
  add beans; jalapeno, serrano, or canned chili peppers; and 1/4 cup of
  the reserved broth.  With a wooden spoon or potato masher, mash beans
  in skillet (Mixture should be thick.) Remove from heat. Spread 2 to 3
  tablespoons of the bean mixture down the middle of each tortilla. Top
  each with some of the chicken; papaya or orange; shredded cheese; and
  cilantro or parsley. Fold in the sides of each tortilla over the
  filling, overlapping and forming a cone shape. Fasten with a
  toothpick. Arrange the burritos on a baking sheet. Cover lightly with
  foil. Bake in a 350 deg F oven for 15 to 20 minutes or till burritos
  are heated through. If desired, serve with salsa and garnish with
  cherry tomatoes and thyme sprigs. Source: Better Homes & Gardens,
  Recipe for All Seasons, 1992 Posted by Linda Davis
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mexican Hot Potatoes
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Meats, Poultry, Side dish, Potatoes
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 lb Lean Ground Beef or Turkey
           Small Onion; chopped
           Garlic Clove; minced
      1 c  Sour Cream OR Sour Half/Half
    1/3 c  Chunky Hot Salsa
      1 ts Oregano
    1/8 ts Chili Powder
    1/2 ts Salt
      4 ea Baked Potatoes
 
  In large skillet, brown beef with onion and garlic. Drain. Stir in
  sour cream, salsa, oregano, chili powder and salt. Serve over hot
  baked potatoes. Makes about 2-1/2 cups
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: "Cold Nachos"
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Appetizers, Hot/spicy, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Of your favorite salsa
      1 pk Taco seasoning (or 2 tbsp
           -taco seasoning)
    1/8 c  Warm water
     32 oz Can refried beans
      1 pt Sour cream
      2    Avocadoes, peeled, mashed,
           -and seeds removed
  1 1/2 c  Grated cheddar cheese
  1 1/4 c  Grated Jack cheese
      2    Tomatoes, chopped
      1 cn Chopped black olives
      2    Green onions, sliced
 
  Thoroughly mix one tablespoon of taco seasoning, 1/2 cup of salsa and
  warm water with the refried beans, then spread beans in the bottom of
  a glass pan (1 9x13 or 2 pie plates). Take 2-3 tablespoons of sour
  cream from the pint and set aside. Then take remaining 1 tablespoon
  taco seasoning and mix with remaining sour cream.  Spread sour cream
  mixture over beans. Add the remaining 1/2 cup of salsa and the 2-3
  tablespoons sour cream to the mashed avocadoes and stir well.  Spread
  avocado mixture over sour cream mixture, taking care not to mix the
  two. Mix together the two cheeses and sprinkle over avocado mixture.
  Scatter tomatoes, olives, and green onions over top of all. Chill in
  refrigerator for at least 2 hours before serving. Serve with round,
  restaurant-style tortilla chips or other favorite chips that you know
  will not break easily when dipping into a refrigerated mixture.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spicy Corn Bread
 Categories: Breads, Tex/mexican
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lg Green chili, chopped
      1 lb Chorizo, coarsely chopped
           (or other spicy sausage)
      1 lg Onion, chopped
      3 tb Butter
      3    Eggs
      1 c  Sour cream
  1 1/2 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 c  Whole wheat pastry flour
      1 ts Baking soda
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Soy sauce
    1/2 c  Maple syrup
      1 c  Milk
      1 c  Monterey Jack, grated
      3    Ears of fresh cooked corn
           Kernels only
 
  Saute chili until skin is charred; set aside.  Fry chopped chorizo 10
  minutes; discard fat; set aside.  Saute onion in butter for 10
  minutes; set aside.  Chop chili into small pieces.  In a separate
  bowl, beat eggs and sour cream until smooth; stir in chili, sausage,
  and onion.  In another bowl, combine cornmeal, flour, baking soda,
  and baking powder.  Stir in sausage mix, soy sauce, and maple syrup,
  stirring just until blended.  Add in milk, cheese and corn kernels.
  Pour into lightly oiled 9" square baking dish.  Bake at 350 degrees
  until top is browned and splitting, usually 30 to 45 minutes.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Rhubarb Pie 2
 Categories: Fruit, Pie/tart, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/2    Pts fresh strawberries,
           -halved
      2 c  Sliced fresh rhubarb (2 to 3
           -medium stalks)
  1 1/2 c  Sugar
      6 tb Quick-cooking tapioca
           Unbaked pastry for double
           -crust 9-inch pie
           Milk, as needed
           Sugar, as needed
           Flour, as needed
 
  Mix strawberries and rhubarb with 1 1/2 cups sugar and the tapioca;
  let stand while making pastry. Divide pastry in half. On lightly
  floured surface roll out one portion 1 1/2 inches larger than
  inverted 9-inch pie plate. Fit into plate and trim crust even with
  edge. Fill with fruit mixture. Roll out remaining pastry; lift onto
  pie. Trim crust 1/2 inch beyond edge of pie plate. Fold top crust
  under bottom crust; seal together to make a standing rim and flute
  edge. Cut vents in top crust. Brush with milk and sprinkle with
  sugar. Bake in 400 F. oven 60 to 70 minutes, or until filling bubbles
  in the center. After 30 minutes of baking, check pie occasionally and
  cover edges with foil, if necessary, to prevent browning. If pie
  begins to boil over, place foil beneath pie plate. Cool thoroughly
  before cutting. Makes one 9-inch pie.
  
  Source: Best Recipes  May/June 1991
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Rhubarb Pie 3
 Categories: Fruit, Pie/tart, Desserts
      Yield: 6 servings
 
MMMMM---------------------------CRUST--------------------------------
  2 1/2 c  All purpose flour
      1 ts Salt
      1 c  Shortening
      6 tb Ice water

MMMMM--------------------------FILLING-------------------------------
      4 c  Fresh strawberries, sliced
  1 1/2 c  Fresh rhubarb, cut into
           -1/2-inch pieces
  1 3/4 c  Sugar
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/2 ts Ground cinnamon
    1/4 ts Freshly ground nutmeg
      1    Egg, lightly beaten
           -(optional)
      1    Egg beaten with 1 tablespoon
           -water

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
           Sweetened whip cream or
           -creme fraiche
 
  Sweetened whipped cream or creme fraiche
  
  FOR CRUST:  Sift flour and salt into large mixing bowl.  Using pastry
  blender, cut in half the shortening until mixture resembles coarse
  meal. Add remaining shortening and continue to blend until mixture
  resembles tiny peas.  Sprinkle ice water over dough, 1 tablespoon at
  a time, mixing with fork until soft ball forms.  Shape into ball,
  cover with waxed paper or foil and chill several hours or overnight.
  Dough can also be prepared in food processor using standard method.
  Lightly flour board and roll out half of dough.  Press into a 9 inch
  pie pan and trim, leaving a 1-inch overhang. Reserve remaining half
  of pastry. FOR FILLING: Place rack in lower third of oven and preheat
  to 400 F. Combine strawberries and rhubarb in large mixing bowl.  Mix
  together sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon, and nutmeg; sprinkle over
  fruit, tossing gently to blend. Add egg (optional) and toss again.
  Spoon mixture into bottom crust. Roll out remaining pastry on lightly
  floured board and cut into 1/2 inch strips using pastry wheel if
  possible to make a more decorative lattice. Lay half the pastry
  strips horizontally 1 inch apart over the filled pie. Weave the first
  vertical strip through center of pie, gently folding back
  corresponding portion of horizontal strips as you work over and
  under; DO NOT PRESS DOWN FIRMLY. Repeat, working outward from center
  to both sides, placing cross strips about 1 inch apart, until lattice
  is completed.  Trim any overhanging strips to rim of pie pan. Fold
  overhang of lower crust over strips and press firmly around edges to
  seal. Brush with egg and water to glaze.  Bake until crust is golden,
  or 40 to 45 minutes.  Serve warm or at room temperature with garnish
  of sweetened whipped cream or creme fraiche. FOR LEAF DECORATIONS:
  (Instead of lattice) Roll remaining half of pastry 1/8 to 1/4 inch
  thick. Use leaf canape cutter to make about 2 dozen leaves. "Etch"
  veins with dull side of knife. Use remaining pastry as needed to form
  flower shape. Brush egg-water glaze on outer rim of pie shell. Place
  leaves around rim, pressing lightly but firmly. Transfer flower to
  center of filling. Brush pastry with additional glaze and bake as
  directed.
  
  Makes 6 to 8 servings.
  
  [ Cooking with Bon Appetit; Pies and Tarts; Knapp, 1986 ]
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Pina Colada Tofu Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Vegetables, Fruit, Nuts/grains
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1    Pie crust (regular or graham
           -cracker)
      1 lb Tofu, cut up and drained
  1 1/2 tb Oil
    1/3 c  Plus 2 tbsp honey
  1 1/2 ts Cornstarch
      1 ts Vanilla
  1 1/4 c  Drained vrushed pineapple
    3/4 c  Shredded unsweetened coconut
 
  Tofu makes this a healthy dessert without sugar.  Great for people on
  restricted diets.
  
  Blend well all ingredients.  Bake at 350 F for 20-30 minutes.  Let
  cool to set.
  
  Origin: Women's Circle, for cooks on the go Shared by: Sharon Stevens,
  Jan/94
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Rhubarb Ice Cream Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit, Ice cream
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 qt Vanilla ice cream, softened
      1    Graham cracker crust, 9
           -inches
  1 1/2 c  Sliced fresh or frozen
           -rhubarb, 1/2 inch pieces
    1/2 c  Sugar
      1 tb Cornstarch
      1 tb Water
      1 pt Fresh strawberries, sliced
 
  Spoon ice cream into crust; freeze.  Meanwhile, in a saucepan over
  medium heat, cook rhubarb and sugar, stirring occasionally, until
  sugar dissolves and mixture boils.  Combine cornstarch and water;
  stir into saucepan.  Cook until thickened, stirring constantly.  Cook
  2 more minutes.  Cool.  Fold in berries; chill.  Spread over ice
  cream.  Let stand 10 minutes at room temperature before cutting.
  
  SOURCE: *Connie Fleck, Fort Atkinson, WI, Country Woman Magazine
  Mar/Apr 93 POSTED BY: Jim Bodle 5/93
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Glazed Strawberry Rhubarb Pie
 Categories: Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  1 1/4 c  Sugar
    1/8 ts Salt
    1/3 c  Flour
      2 c  Fresh strawberries
      2 c  (1" pieces) fresh rhubarb
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      1 tb Sugar
 
  Serve pie warm with sour cream spread on top.
  
  Pastry for 2-crust pie
  
  Combine 1 1/4 c. sugar, salt, and flour. Arrange half of strawberries
  and rhubarb in pastry-lined 9" pie pan. Sprinkle with half of sugar
  mixture. Repeat with remaining fruit and sugar mixture; dot with
  butter.
  
  Adjust top crust and and flute edges.  Brush top of pie with cold
  water and sprinkle on 1 tbsp. sugar.  Cut steam vents.
  
  Bake in hot oven (425'F.) 40 to 50 minutes or until rhubarb is tender
  and crust is browned.
  
  Variation
  
  LATTICED STRAWBERRY-RHUBARB Pie:  Use a lattice top to show off the
  beauty of this spring pie.
  
  FROM: Farm Journal's Complete Pie Cook Book Shared by: Matthew Hodges,
  June/94.
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Kielbasa and Meatballs in Beer
 Categories: Appetizers, Meats, Sausage
      Yield: 3 servings
 
  1 1/2 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Bread crumbs
      1 md Onion, chopped fine
           Salt to taste
           Pepper to taste
           Pinch of garlic powder
      2 lb Kielbasa, cut in 1/4 inch
           Slices
     16 oz Beer
      1 lg Bottle of ketchup
      3    Peppers, diced
      3    Onions, diced
    1/2 c  Water
 
  Mix beer, ketchup, 3 peppers, 3 onions and water in a large pan; add
  sliced Kielbasa and simmer for 1 hour.  Mix ground beef, bread
  crumbs, onion, salt, pepper, garlic powder.  Shape into balls.  Drop
  into Kielbasa mixture and simmer another hour.  Skim off grease and
  serve or let cool and reheat slowly before serving.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Schweinekotelett in Zweibelsosse (Pork Chops In Onion Sau
 Categories: Aust/german, Meats, Main dish, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4    Pork Chops
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 tb Unbleached Flour
  1 1/2 tb Vegetable Oil
      4    Onions; Small (2 med) *
    1/2 c  Beer
    1/2 c  Beef Broth; Hot
      1 ts Cornstarch
 
  *    Onions are to be thinly sliced.
  ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
  +++
  
  Season pork chops with salt and pepper; coat with flour.  Heat oil in
  a heavy frypan.  Add pork chops; fry for 3 minutes on each side.  Add
  onions; cook for another 5 minutes, turning chops once.  Pour in beer
  and beef broth; cover and simmer 15 minutes.  Remove pork shops to a
  prehaeated platter.  Season sauce to taste.  Blend cornstarch with a
  small amount of cold water.  Stir into sauce and cook until thick and
  bubbly. Pour over pork chops.  Blend cornstarch with a small amount
  of cold water.
   Stir into sauce and cook until thick and bubbly.  Pour over pork
  chops. Serve with brussel sprouts and boiled potatoes.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Beer Marinade for Beef 2
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Salsa/sauce
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 cn Beer (12 oz or 10 oz cans)
      2 ts Salt
    1/2 c  Olive oil
      1 ts Ground cayenne pepper
      1 tb Wine vinegar
      1 tb Prepared horseradish
      1 ts Onion powder
      2 tb Lemon juice
      1 ts Garlic powder
 
  Mix all ingredients together and use as a marinade.  Then use as a
  basting sauce for the meat while it cooks.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Vegetable Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Margerine; or water
      1 c  Onion; chopped
      1 c  Celery; chopped
    1/2 c  Plus 2T flour
      4 c  Vegetable broth
      2 c  Broccoli florets
      1 c  Carrots; sliced
      1 c  Zucchini; sliced
      1 c  Tomatoes; diced
      2 c  Liquid nondairy creamer
      2 c  Soy milk
      1 tb Salt; or to taste
      1 ts Pepper
      1 tb Fresh thyme leaves
 
  In a large saucepan over med heat, heat the marg or water.  Add the
  onions and celery and cook until the onions are transparent, about 6
  mins. Stir in the flour and cook, stirring constantly, for 2 mins,
  set aside.
  
  In a large saucepan, bring the veg broth to a boil over high heat.
  Add the broccoli and carrots, lower the heat to medium, and cook for
  another 3 mins.  Add the zucchini and tomatoes, and continue to cook
  for another 3 mins, or until the veggies are tender but crisp. Strain
  the veg stock into the onion flour mixture and reserve the vegetables.
  
  Over med heat, cook the stock until it begins to thicken, stirring
  constantly.  Add the vegetables, nondairy creamer, soy milk, salt,
  pepper and thyme.  Simmer until thoroughly heated.
  
  Serve immediately.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Cream of Asparagus Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
  2 1/2 c  Vegetable broth or water
      1 lb Fresh asparagus; cut into
           -1/2 inch pieces
      1 lg Potato; thinly sliced
    1/2 md Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Celery; chopped
      2 tb Flour
      2 c  Soy milk
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Tarragon
 
  In a large saucepan over med heat, bring the broth to a boil.  Add the
  asparagus, potato, onion and celery, then reduce the heat and cook for
  25-30 mins.
  
  Pour the soup mixture into a food processor along with the flour and
  puree until smooth.  Return the soup to the saucepan, add the
  remaining ingredients, and simmer until the soup begins to thicken
  and is heated thru.
  
  Serve immediately.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Cream of Carrot Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 tb Margerine; or water
      1 md Onion; chopped
     12 md Carrots; slices
      1 md Potato; peeled and diced
      4 c  Vegetable broth
    1/2 c  Soy milk
           ;salt and pepper to taste
           ;dash of grated nutmeg
    1/4 ts Ginger
    1/4 ts Rosemary
      1 tb Orange juice
 
  Heat the margerine or water in a large saucepan.  Cook the onion for
  5 mins over low heat, or until soft.  Add the carrots and potato,
  cover, and simmer for 5-10 mins.  Add the broth, cover and simmer
  about 20 mins, or until the veggies are tender.
  
  Pour the soup thru a sieve or colander, reserving the stock for later.
  Puree the vegetables in a blender or food processor and return them
  to the saucepan.  Add the soy milk, then gradually add the reserved
  stock until the soup reaches desired consistency.
  
  Flavor with the remaining ingredients.  Reheat slowly and serve.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Watercress Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Magerine; or water
      2 md Onions; chopped
      1 cl Garlic; minced
      2 md Potatoes; quartered, peeled
      2 lg Bunches watercress; chopped
      3 c  Vegetable broth
      2 c  Soy milk
           ;salt and pepper to taste
 
  Heat the margerine or water in a large saucepan over med heat and
  lightly cook the onions and garlic for 3 mins.  Add the potatoes,
  watercress, and broth and simmer, covered, for 15 mins or until the
  potatoes are tender.
  
  Transfer the soup to a blender or food proc and puree the soup until
  smooth.  Pour the mixture back into the saucepan and add the soy
  milk, salt and pepper.  Cook over low heat until the soup is heated
  thru, then serve. From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid
  Newkirk Typed by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Goblin Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 tb Margerine; or water
      1 md Onion; chopped\
     16 oz Can pumpkin puree
  1 1/3 c  Water
      3 c  Soy milk
    1/2 ts Nutmeg
    1/2 ts Sugar
           ;pepper to taste
           ;croutons
 
  In large saucepan over medium heat, heat the margerine or water and
  cook the onion until tender, stirring often, about 5 mins.  Stir in
  the pumpkin, water, soy milk, nutmeg, sugar and pepper.  Cook over
  med heat until just boiling, stirring constantly.  Garnish with
  croutons. From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk
  Typed by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Curried Split Pea and Potato Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Potatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 10 servings
 
     16 oz Green split peas; dried
     10 c  Water
      1 lg Onion; chopped
      1 ts Garlic powder
      1 ts Oregano
      1 ts Curry powder
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Salt
      1    Bay leaf
      2 lg Carrots; peeled and chopped
      3 md Potatoes; peeled and chopped
      2    Stalks celery; chopped
 
  In a large saucepan, combine the split peas, water, onion, and spices.
  Simmer, uncovered for 1 hour. Stir in the carrots, potatoes and
  celery. Simmer covered, stirring occasionally, for an additional 45
  mins or until soup reaches desired thickness. Remove bay leaf. Puree
  in a blender or food processor. Reheat before serving.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Corn Chowder
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      5 md Potatoes; chopped
      3 c  Water; or veg broth
      2 ts Veg oil; or water
      1 md Onion; chopped
      2    Stalks celery; chopped
      1    Red bell pepper; diced
      2 md Carrots; chopped
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper
      1 c  Soy milk
  2 1/2 c  Frozen corn kernals
 
  In a med saucepan, boil the potatoes in the water or broth for 20
  mins.
  
  While the potatoes are cooking, heat the oil or water in a med frying
  pan over med heat.  Add the onion, celery, carrots, bell pepper,
  salt, and pepper.  Cook until just tender, about 5-7 mins.
  
  When the potatoes are soft, remove them from the saucepan and reserve
  the stock.  Blend the potatoes with the soy milk in a blender or food
  processor until smooth.
  
  Return the soup to the saucepan and stir in the corn, onion mixture,
  and enough of the reserved stock to achieve a creamy thick
  consistency. Heat thoroughly before serving.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA French Onion Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 tb Veg oil; or water
      2 lg Onions; sliced
    1/4 c  Flour
      4 c  Water
    1/4 c  Soy sauce; or tamari
      4    Slices French bread; toasted
           -or croutons
 
  Heat the oil or water in a large saucepan over med heat.  Add the
  onions and cook for 2 mins.  Add the flour and stir until the onions
  are well coated.  Add the water and soy sauce or tamari, and stir
  well. Bring the soup to a boil, then turn the heat to low and simmer,
  covered, until the onions are tender.  Add more water if soup becomes
  too thick.
  
  Serve in individual bowls topped with bread or croutons.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Lentil Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 ts Veg oil
      1 md Onion; sliced
      1 md Carrot; sliced
      4 c  Hot vegetable broth
      1 c  Lentils
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Thyme
      2    Bay leaves
           ;salt to taste
      1 tb Lemon juice
 
  Heat the oil in a large pot over med heat, then saute the onion and
  carrot for about 5 mins, or until tender.  Add the broth, lentils,
  pepper, thyme, bay leaves and salt.  Cover and simmer until lentils
  are tender, about 40-50 mins.  Stir in the lemon juice and extra salt
  to taste. From the Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk
  Typed by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Cream of Broccoli Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 lb Broccoli
      1 md Onion; quartered
      1 cl Garlic
      2 c  Veg broth; or water
    1/4 c  Flour
  2 1/2 c  Soy milk
      2 tb Soy sauce; or tamari
      2 ts Basil
           ;salt and pepper to taste
 
  Cut the broccoli into florets and slice about 1/4 of the top of each
  stem. Reserve 1c of florets.
  
  Put the broccoli, onion, garlic, and broth or water in a large
  saucepan. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat to med and cook until the
  vegetables are tender, about 15 mins.
  
  Put all the ingredients into a food processor and add the flour.
  Process until smooth.  Return the soup to the saucepan; add the
  remaining ingredients and the florets.  Cook over med heat until the
  soup thickens and is heated thru.
  
  Season to taste with the salt and pepper and serve.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Navy Bean Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      1 lb Navy beans (2c)
      8 c  Water
      1 md Onion; chopped
      1 cl Garlic; minced
      1 c  Carrots; sliced
      1 c  Celery; sliced
      1 lg Potato; scrubbed and diced
      1    Bay leaf
    1/2 c  Tomato sauce
    1/4 ts Thyme
    1/8 ts Pepper
      1 tb Chopped fresh parsley
  1 1/2 ts Salt
 
  Wash the beans and soak overnight in about 4c water.  Pour off the
  soaking water and place the beans in a kettle or large saucepan with
  the water, onions, garlic, carrots, celery, potato, and bay leaf.
  
  Bring the mixture to a simmer, and cook until the beans are tender,
  about 1 1/2 hours.  Remove bay leaf.
  
  Puree the soup in a blender in several small batches.  Be sure to
  start on low speed and hold the lid on tightly.  Stir in the tomato
  sauce and seasonings.  Add salt to taste.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Mung Dahl Soup
 Categories: Soup/stew, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 c  Split husked mung dahl beans
           -or yellow split peas
      2 c  Water
      1 ts Tumeric
    1/4 ts Cayenne
      1 ts Salt
      2 tb Margerine
      1 lg Onion; cut in thin slivers
      1 ts Cumin seeds
      1    Whole clove
 
  Pick over the beans or peas and discard any discolored ones or small
  stones.  Wash the beans in a colander under cold running water.  Pour
  the beans into a heavy 2-3 qt saucepan.  Add the water, tumeric,
  cayenne pepper, and salt and bring to a boil over high heat.  Reduce
  the heat to low and cover partly.  Simmer 30 mins.
  
  Meanwhile, in a med frying pan over high heat, melt the margerine,
  then add the onion, cumin seeds, and clover and reduce heat to med.
  Saute the onions is transparent and soft, about 6 mins.
  
  Once the beans have cooked thru, add the onion mixture and simmer 1
  or 2 more mins.  Serve immediately.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Marinated Pea Salad
 Categories: Salads, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
    3/4 c  Distilled white vinegar
    3/4 c  Sugar
      1 tb Water
      1    Can (15-17oz) can petite
           -peas, drained
     16 oz Can corn kernals; drained
      1 c  Celery; chopped
      1 c  Onions; chopped
 
  Combine the vinegar, sugar and water in a small saucepan.  Bring to a
  boil over med heat.  Boil for 5 mins, then remove from the heat and
  cool completely.
  
  In a med bowl, combine the remaining ingredients.  Pour the cooled
  vinegar mixture over the vegetables and chill 4 hours or overnight.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Rice Salad
 Categories: Salads, Rice, Vegetables
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked rice
      2 c  Corn kernals; canned or
           -frozen
      2    Green bell pepper; diced
  1 1/2 c  Cooked kidney beans
      1 sm Onion; chopped
      6 tb Distilled white vinegar
      3 tb Veg oil
      2 ts Soy sauce; or tamari
      2 ts Prepared mustard
      1 ts Prepared horseradish
 
  Mix the rice, corn, pepper, kidney beans, and onion in a bowl.
  Combine the vinegar, oil, tamari, mustard and horseradish in a small
  bowl and pour over the other ingredients.  Toss well.
  From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk Typed by Lisa
  Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: PETA Red Potato Salad
 Categories: Salads, Potatoes, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
     12    To 15 unpeeled red potatoes
           -cut into bite size wedges
      4    Stalks celery; sliced
      1 lg Green pepper; chopped
      6    Green onions; chopped
      2 c  Italian dressing
           ;garlic salt and pepper
           ;to taste
 
  Boil the potatoes for about 15 mins or until tender.  In a large
  bowl, mix all the ingredients while the potatoes are still hot. Chill
  for 2-3 hours. From The Compassionate Cook by PETA and Ingrid Newkirk
  Typed by Lisa Greenwood
  Submitted By LISA GREENWOOD   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli & Rice
 Categories: Casseroles, Meats, Rice, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  1 1/2 c  Minute rice
  1 1/2 c  Fresh broccoli
           OR
     10 oz Frozen broccoli
      1 cn 16 oz. cream of mushroom
           -soup
    1/2 c  Chopped onion
      1 c  Velveeta cheese, diced
    1/2 c  Butter
      1 lb Ground beef
    1/2 c  Chopped celery, optional
 
  Dice velveeta cheese so it will melt easier. Chop the broccoli into
  bit size pieces or if frozen, pour boiling water over to thaw. Chop
  onion. Chop celery if desired. Cook rice according to directions. Add
  cheese and soup to hot rice. Prepare broccoli. Brown ground beef.
  Saute onion in the butter. Combine ingredients and pour into greased
  casserole. Bake at 350 degrees for 40 minutes. Use sausage instead of
  ground beef, if desired. Regular rice may be used.
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Rice & Broccoli Casserole
 Categories: Vegetables, Casseroles
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/2 c  Onion; chopped
    1/2 c  Celery; chopped
      2 tb Oleo
      1 c  Rice
      1 pk Broccoli; frozen
      1 cn Soup, cream of mushroom
      1 cn Soup, cream of chicken
    1/2 lb Pasteurized process cheese
 
  Servings:  6
  
  Saute onion and celery in oleo until soft.  Cook rice and broccoli
  sepa- rately according to package directions.  Mix all ingredients
  together in a two-quart baking dish.  Bake at 375 F. for 30 to 40
  minutes.
  
  This may be prepared in advance and stored in the refrigerator.
  
  Alda Arthur Comanche Study Club Cookbook Comanche, TX, 1987
  Submitted By BARRY WEINSTEIN   On   07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Chicken
 Categories: Poultry, Main dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Lemons
      2 tb Parsley; chopped (garnish)
  3 1/2 lb Chicken, roasting
  1 1/4 c  Almond-pistachio butter
      5 lg Garlic clove
      2 ts Lemon juice (to taste)
    1/2 c  Carrot; coarsely chopped
    1/2 c  Heavy cream
  2 1/2 c  Onions; chopped
           Salt
    1/3 c  Parsley; chopped
 
  Quarter one of the lemons and put it in the chicken.  Chop the other
  and combine it in a deep nonreactive kettle with the garlic, carrot,
  onions, and 1/3 cup parsley.
  
  Put the chicken on the vegetable bed, breast side up, and pour in
  enough boiling water to come one-third of the way up the sides.
  Cover the pot, put it over medium heat, and simmer for 30 minutes.
  Using tongs, turn the chicken on its breast, then cook, covered, for
  20 minutes more.
  
  By now the breast should be cooked. Take the pot from the heat and the
  chicken from the pot.  As soon as it's cool enough to handle, carve
  off the breast meat and set it aside, tightly covered.  Cut the rest
  of the chicken into serving pieces and return it to the kettle.
  
  Put the kettle over medium heat and cook the chicken, uncovered, for
  25 to 35 minutes more, or until it is fully cooked. Set the dark meat
  aside with the light, tightly covered; strain the broth and return it
  to the kettle.
  
  Boil the liquid over high heat until it is reduced to about 2 1/2
  cups-- the exact amount cannot be given because what you actually
  want is 2 cups of defatted broth and chickens vary enormously in
  fattiness.  Pour the broth into a shallow, heatproof bowl, cool to
  tepid, then set in thefreezer until the fat rises and solidifies.
  Remove the fat and discard.
  
  Re-warm the defatted broth along with any juices that have escaped
  from the reserved chicken meat.  Put the almond-pistachio butter in a
  bowl and slowly stir in the warmed broth and lemon juice.  Let the
  sauce cool, then whip the cream to limp peaks and fold it in.  Add
  salt and additional lemon juice to taste.
  
  Skin the chicken (and bone it if desired).  Arrange the meat on a
  wide, shallow platter and pour the sauce over to blanket it.  Cover
  and chill for at least 2 hours, up to a full day, then allow to warm
  almost but not quite to room temperature before sprinkling with the
  last 3 table- spoons of parsley and serving.  Accompany with pita or
  crusty French bread for mopping up--and cutting the richness of--the
  sauce. An elegant presentation of cold poached chicken with an
  almond-pistachio sauce of almost unimaginable richness.  Keep the
  rest of the meal light and delicate, so the chicken is neither
  overwhelmed nor overwhelming.
  
                     Rochester, NY Times-Union, Monday, July 29, 1991
  Submitted By SAM WARING   On   07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Blackened Catfish
 Categories: Seafood, Cajun/creol, Low cal/fat
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      1 ts Paprika
    1/2 ts Each: crumbled dried sage,
           -ground cumin, garlic powder
           - and granulated sugar
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Ground red pepper (cayenne)
    1/4 ts Onion powder
      4 ea Farm-raised catfish fillets
           (4 to 5 oz. each)
        x  Nonstick cooking spray
      1 ts Olive oil
        x  Lemon oil
 
  1.  Put paprika, sage, cumin, garlic powder, sugar, salt, red pepper
  and onion powder in a 1-gallon food-storage bag.  Close bag and shake
  until well blended.
  
  2. Put 1 fillet in bag at a time and shake until lightly coated.
  
  3. Coat large nonstick skillet with cooking spray.  Add oil and heat
  over medium-low heat until hot.
  
  4.  Add catfish fillets, skinned side up, and cook 4 to 5 minutes
  until lightly blackened.  Carefully turn with spatula.l  Cook 4 to 5
  minutes longer, or until fish feels firm and is opaque at the
  thickest part. Serve with lemon slices.
  
  (Suggested serving:  Serve with herbed rice and a refreshing cucumber
  salad.)
  
  Per serving:  182 calories; 19g protein; 1g carbohydrate; 10g fat;
  42mg cholesterol; 316mg sodium.  Exchanges:  3 lean meat, 1/4 fat.
  
  From WOMAN'S DAY, 8/9/94.
  
  Typed by iRis gRayson.
  Submitted By IRIS GRAYSON   On   07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chocolate Bars Diabetic
 Categories: Diabetic, Desserts, Cake/cookie
      Yield: 32 servings
 
      2 c  All-purpose flour;
      1 c  Sugar;
    1/2 c  Cocoa;
      1 ts Baking soda;
           Dry substitute equal to 1/3
           Cup sugar
    1/2 ts Cinnamon;
    1/2 ts Salt;
      1 c  Margarine (2 Sticks); at
           Room temperature
      2 lg Eggs;
      2 ts Vanilla;
    1/2 c  Semisweet chocolate chips;
 
  Place flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, dry sugar substitute,
  cinnamon, and salt in a mixer bowl and mix a low speed to blend well.
  Add margarine, eggs, vanilla and water, and mix at medium speed to
  blend well. Spread batter evenly in an 11" by 15" jelly roll pan that
  has been sprayed with pan spray or greased with margarine.  Bake at
  325 degrees for 20 to 25 minutes, or until bars pull away the sides
  of the pan and a cake tester comes out clean from the center.  Place
  on wire rack and sprinkle chocolate chips evenly over the top of the
  hot bars. Mark four by eight and cool until chocolate has hardended.
  Cut as marked. (Might be a good idea to cut even more sugar out of
  this.)
  
  Food Exchange per serving: 1 STARCH EXCHANGE + 1 FAT EXCHANGE
  
  CHO: 14g; PRO: 2g; FAT: 7g; CAL: 123 Low-sodium diets: Omit salt. Use
  salt-free margarine.
  
  Desserts for Diabetic by Mabel Cavaiani, R.D.
  
  Brought to you and yours by Nancy O'Brion and her Meal-Master
  Submitted By KATHRYN CONE   On   07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Broccoli Onion Rice Casserole
 Categories: Vegetables, Casseroles
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 c  Fresh broccoli, cooked
      1 c  Rice, cooked
      1 lg Sweet onion, chopped
      2 tb Butter
      1 cn Cream of mushroom soup
      1 cn Milk
    1/4 lb Velveeta cheese
 
  Saute onions in butter.   Add soup, milk, broccoli, and cheese. Cook
  until cheese melts.  Mix with rice.  Pour into casserole dish. Bake
  at 350 degrees for 30 minutes. Source: Rock Springs Sweet Onion
  Festival Cook Book 1992
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By MARY LABUA  SUBJ BROCCOLI RICE CASSEROLE    On
  07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Taco Salad I
 Categories: Salads, Tex/mexican, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
MMMMM------------------------INGREDIENTS-----------------------------
      1 lb Hamburger
      1 ea Pk taco seasoning
      1 ea Head of lettuce cut up
      1 ea Or 2  ea      tomatoes cut
           -up.
      1 ea Or 2  pks     shredded
           -cheddar cheese
      1 ea Bottle Catalina French
           -Salad dressing
      1 ea Bag Grandaddy Tortillia
           -chips broken up.
 
  Brown hamburer in skillet.  Add seasoning and stir. (Do not add
  water). Simmer on low heat.  While hamburger mixture is simmering,
  Mix lettuce, tomatoes, tortilla chips,  and cheese together in large
  bowl. When ready to serve, add beef mixture and salad dressing. Stir
  and enjoy. Your favorite salsa is a nice addition.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By BETSY FENTI  SUBJ MEXICAN RECIPES NEEDED    On
  07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tamale Pie #1
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Meats, Pie/tart, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      2 lb Ground Beef
     12 oz Tomatoes
      1    Med. Onion, Chopped
      1    Clove Garlic, Chopped
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Pepper
    1/2 ts Oregano
  3 1/2 oz (1/2 7oz can) Green Chilies

MMMMM--------------------------TOPPING-------------------------------
      1 c  Grated Mild Cheese
    1/2 c  Cornmeal
    1/2 c  Unbleached Flour
      1 ts Baking powder
           Dash Salt
      2 tb Oil
      2 ts Sugar (Optional)
    1/2 c  Milk
           Other Half Green Chilies
 
  Brown meat in skillet.  Add remainging ingredients and simmer 20
  minutes. Pour into a 4-qt casserole.  Top with cheese. Mix rest of
  ingredients together and pour over the top of meat and cheese.  Bake
  at 375 degrees F. for 30 minutes (or until topping is done).
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Chicken Tacos #1
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Poultry
      Yield: 6 servings
 
    1/4 c  Green onion; chopped
      2 c  Cooked chicken, shredded
      8 oz Green chili salsa
      1 pk Taco shells

MMMMM---------------------OPTIONAL TOPPINGS---------------------------
      1    Chopped tomato
      1    Guacamole
      1 tb Shortening
      1    8 oz can taco sauce or
      1    Salt to taste
      1 c  Grated cheddar
      1    Chopped lettuce
      1    Sour cream
 
  Saute' the onion in the shortening until transparent. Add the chicken,
  green chili salsa or taco sauce and salt to taste. Heat to boiling.
  Prepare shells according to package directions. Put two tablespoons
  of the chicken mixture and one tablespoon of grated cheese in each
  shell. Serve with option of lettuce, tomato, sour cream or guacamole
  and extra chili sauce as desired.
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Frijoles Refritos (Refried Beans) #1
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Main dish, Vegetables, Side dish
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Cooked beans
    1/2 c  Grated longhorn cheese
      3 tb Lard or bacon drippings
 
  Heat lard or bacon drippings in frying pan or saucepan. Add beans,
  mash and simmer for 5 minutes. Top with cheese and serve when melted.
  NOTE: this along with green chili and/or salsa is a great burrito
  filling. Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Spanish Rice #1
 Categories: Tex/mexican, Vegetables, Rice
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      3 tb Shortening
  1 1/2 c  Rice
    1/2 c  Onion, sliced
    1/2 c  Bell pepper,sliced
      1    14 oz can whole tomatoes
      1    Medium clove garlic, minced
      1 ts Black pepper
      2 ts Salt
      3 c  Water
 
  Melt shortening in large skillet. Add rice and brown. When rice is a
  golden brown, reduce heat and add onion, bell pepper, tomatoes,
  garlic and pepper. Mix well and add 1 1/2 cups warm water or enough
  to just cover the rice. Add salt. Cover and let simmer until almost
  dry. Add remaining water, cold, a little at a time, cooking over low
  heat until fluffy. Note: You may substitue peeled seeded green chili
  for the bell pepper. Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Guacamole #4
 Categories: Vegetables, Appetizers, Tex/mexican, Dips/spread
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      6    Ripe California avocadoes,
           -peeled and pitted
  1 1/2    White onions, chopped
    1/2 c  Cilantro, chopped
           Juice of 2 limes, or to
           -taste
      1    Very small zucchini, pureed
      6 tb Olive oil
      6    Chiles serranos, finely
           -chopped
           Salt to taste
           For the garnish:
      2 lg Tomatoes, chopped
      1    Green onion, finely chopped
      2    Chiles serranos, finely
           -chopped
    1/2 c  Cilantro leaves
 
  Guacamole is prepared differently in various regions  of Mexico. In
  the city of Monterrey, it is garnished to reflect the colors of the
  Mexican flag.
  
  For the guacamole:
  
  totopos (crisply fried tortilla wedges)
  
  Put avocadoes in a glass bowl, and mash them with a fork.  Add onion,
  cilantro, lime juice, zucchini, oil, chiles, and salt. Mix the
  ingredients thoroughly to form a puree.
  
  Put the avocado pits in the guacamole to prevent darkening. To serve,
  spoon guacamole into a mortar, and decorate with tomato on one side
  and green onions, chiles, and cilantro leaves in the center. On the
  other side, place the totopos.
  
  Makes 8 servings.
  
  From:  THE TASTE OF MEXICO by Patricia Quintana, Stewart, Tabori &
  Chang, New York.  1986.  ISBN 0-941434-89-3. Shared by: Karin Brewer,
  Cooking Echo, 3/93
  Submitted By MICHELLE HOWE   On   07-23-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Strawberry Rhubarb Pie 4
 Categories: Desserts, Pie/tart, Fruit
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2 c  Rhubarb (approx 2
           -stalks/cup), cut
      3 c  Strawberries, washed,
           -stemmed and cut
    3/4 c  Pure maple syrup
    1/3 c  Butter
      1 ts Orange rind or extract
      2 tb Arrowroot
      2 tb Amaretto liqueur
      1 ea Double pie crust
 
  Place fruit in bottom of 9-inch pie shell.  Arrange fruits randomly
  so that shell is filled equally in all areas with both fruits.  In a
  saucepan over low heat, combine syrup, butter, orange and arrowroot.
  Remove from heat and add Amaretto.  Pour over fruit in pie.  Cover
  pie with top crust. Using fork tips, seal edges, and prick breathing
  holes in top of pie. Bake in 350 degree oven for about 1 hour.  Check
  at about 45 minutes. Crust should be golden brown when pie is
  finished.  Pie may be bubbling at holes. Serves 6.
  
  TO ALL  Submitted By DENNIS HAYES  SUBJ STRAWBERRY-RHUBARB PIE    On
  07-24-95
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Crabmeat Dip
 Categories: Appetizers, Ethnic
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 c  Coconut cream
 10 5/8 oz Crab meat -- fresh, frozen
           Or can
    1/4 ts Salt
      2    Spring onions -- very finely
           Chopped
      2 tb Coriander -- * see note
      1 tb Lemon juice
      1    Green chile -- seeded and
           Chopped
           White pepper -- to taste
 
  1. In a small saucepan simmer the coconut, crabmeatr and salt for 5
  min.
  
  2. Stire rest of ingredients and leave to cool.
  
  Place dip in bowl and serve with vegetable sticks: carrots, peppers,
  celery, cucumber, spring onions, etc.
  
  Recipe By     : Nila Sweeney
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Phad Thai
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4    Cm square firm bean
           -curd cake
      1 c  Vegetable or peanut oil
    1/2 c  Chicken breasts without skin
           Cubed
      8 oz Vermicelli -- thin rice
           Variety
    1/2 c  Baby prawns -- cooked &
           Peeled
      2    Spring onions -- chopped
      1 ts Garlic -- chopped
      2    Eggs -- lightly beaten
    1/4 c  White sugar
      3 tb Lime juice
      5 ts White vinegar
      2 tb Water
  2 1/2 tb Fish sauce
      1 ts Chili powder -- mild
    1/2 c  Bean sprouts -- fresh,
           Rinsed
      6    Garlic chives -- cut in 5cm
           Lengths
 
  1. Heat oil in a wok. Cut bean curd into thin theads and fry  until
  crisp on surface. Remove and set aside.
  
  2. Fry chicken until it changes colour.  Remove and set aside.
  
  3. Fry noodles until expanded, crisp and white. Remove & drain.
  
  4. Pour off all by 2 tbls of oil nad stire fry prawns, spring onions
  and garlic for 1 1/2min.  Remove and set aside.
  
  5. Pour beaten egg into pan and break up in wok.  Remove when firm
  and wipe out wok.
  
  6. Pour sugar, lime juice, vinegar, water and fish sauce into wok and
  bring to boil.  Add chilli and cook for 1 1/2 min.  Add fried noodles
  and toss in sauce until completely coated.
  
  7. Add bean curd, chicken, prawns, onions, garlic and eggs. Heat
  through gently, stiring until hot for about 3min.
  
  8. Pile noodels into serving place and garnish with sprouts and garlic
  chives.
  
  Recipe By     : Nila Sweeney
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Prawn & Pork Toast
 Categories: Appetizers, Ethnic
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      1 tb Chinese dried prawns
      1 tb Coriander leaves
      2    Cloves garlic
    1/2 c  Prawns, cooked
      1 lb Pork -- minced, lean
      1 tb Fish sauce -- to taste
      1    Egg
      6    White bread slices -- day
           Old
           Vegetable oil -- for frying
 
  1. Finely chop the dried prawns (shrimps), coriander and garlic in
  food processor.  Add fresh prawns and pork and grind to paste.
  
  2. Add fish sauce and egg. Process until mixed.
  
  3. Spread paste on bread. Cut crusts and slice into four triagles.
  
  4. Heat oil for deep frying. Fry toast only four or five pcs at a
  time. Slide into oil, filling downward and fry until golden brown,
  then flip over and cook other side briefly.
  
  5. remove toast and place on wire rack to drain.
  
  6. Arrange toast on shredded lettuce with a small bowl of sweet and
  source sauce.  Serve hot.
  
  Recipe By     : Nila Sweeney
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Tom Yum Kung (Hot!!!)
 Categories: Ethnic, Seafood
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      5 c  Fish stock
      1    Lemon grass root -- finely
           Chopped
      1 sm Lime -- thinly sliced
      2    Kaffir lime leaves
      1    Red chiles -- seeded
      8    King prawns -- fresh, in
           Shell
      2    Squid -- cleaned,cut in
           Rings
      2 tb Fish sauce
      1    Spring onions -- chopped
      4    Sprigs coriander
 
  1. Bring stock to boil and add lemon grass, lime, lime leaves and
  chili. Simmer for 7min.
  
  2. Peel prawns, leaving tail and head in place.  Cut along back and
  remove vein.
  
  3. Add prawns, squid and fish sauce. Simmer until seafood is lightly
  cooked.
  
  4. Garnish soup with spring onion and coriander.
  
  Recipe By     : Nila Sweeney
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: African Ribs With Peanut Sauce
 Categories: Meats, African
      Yield: 1 servings
 
  2 1/2 lb Pork backrib
    1/4 c  Oil
      1 c  Onion  -- minced
      3 c  Chicken broth
      1 tb Coriander seed  -- finly
           Crushed
           Salt, pepper
           Chili oil
      1 cn 6 1/2 oz. roasted shelled
           -peanuts
      1    Eggplant  -- cubed
           Juice 1/2 lemon
           Steamed carrots and green
           Beans
      2 ts Paprika
 
  Broil ribs till brown. Heat 3 tbls oil in large pot. Saute onion and
  garlic until tender. Add chicken broth and coriander seeds. Season to
  taste with salt,pepper, chili oil. bring to boil. Add ribs, then
  simmer covered, 1 hour or until ribs are tender.
  
  Place peanuts in blender with remaining 1 tbls oil. Blend until finely
  ground. Add toribs along with eggplant, lemon juice and paprika.
  Simmer until eggplant in tender stirring occasionally. Adjust salt
  and pepper to taste. Add green beans and carrots before serving or
  serve vegetables alongside with stew.
  
  Note: 1/2 cup creamy peanut butter may be substituted for roasted
  peanuts. Stir into sauce after eggplant is cooked.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Ribs
 Categories: Cajun/creol, Meats, Main dish
      Yield: 4 servings
 
      4 lb Pork ribs, cut in pieces
      1 ea Lemon
      1 ea Large onion
      1 c  Catsup
    1/3 c  Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Chili powder
      1 ts Salt
      2 ds Tabasco sauce
      2 c  Water
 
  Place ribs in shallow roasting pan, meaty side up.  On each piece,
  place a slice of unpeeled lemon, a thin slice of onion. Roast in very
  hot oven, 450 F degrees, 30 minutes. Combine remaining ingredients;
  bring to a boil and pour over ribs. Continue baking in a moderate
  oven, 350 F degrees, about 2 hours, basting ribs with the sauce every
  15 minutes. From "Talk About Good" Contributed by Mrs. K Richard
  Escudier, Jr.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Barbecued Ribs Oriental
 Categories: Meats, Bbq
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      5 lb Pork spare ribs
  1 1/2 ts Salt
      1    Beef bouillon cube
    3/4 c  Water  -- boiling
      1 ts Oil
      1 cn Pineapple,crushed  --
           Undrained
    1/4 c  Brown sugar,dark  -- firm
           Packed
      1 ts Onion powder
    1/4 ts Garlic powder
      2 tb Worcestershire sauce
      2 tb Cornstarch
    1/4 c  Water  -- cold
 
  1. Cut ribs to form individual portions; sprinkle with 1 teaspoon
  salt.
  
  2. Place ribs on a rack in a shallow baking pan; bake in preheated
  375'F. oven until almost tender, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. Drain off fat.
  
  3. Meanwhile, dissolve bouillon cube in boiling water in a medium-size
  saucepan.
  
  4. Add oil, pineapple, brown sugar, onion powder, garlic powder,
  Worcestershire sauce and remaining salt; bring to a boil.
  
  5. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 5 minutes.
  
  6. Combine cornstarch with cold water in a small bowl; stir into sauce
  mixture. Cook and stir until thickened.
  
  7. Spoon sauce over drained, baked ribs.
  
  8. Increase oven temperature to 425'F.; bake until nicely glazed,
  about 30 minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Bbqed Chile-Marinated Pork Spareribs
 Categories: Chilies, Bbq, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      2    Racks pork spareribs (6lbs)
      8    Dried new mexican red
           -chiles, seeded
    3/4 c  Hot water
    1/2 c  Ketchup
      2    Cloves garlic
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
      3 tb Brown sugar  -- firm packed
      2 ts Salt
      3 tb Tequila
    1/2 c  Veg. oil
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/8 ts Allspice
 
  In a large kettle combine the spareribs with water to cover, bring the
  water to a boil and simmer the ribs skimming the froth as necessary,
  for about 50min. Drain the ribs well and pat them dry.
  
  While the ribs are simmering, in a blender puree the chiles,water,
  ketchup, garlic, vinegar, brown sugar, salt, tequila. oil, cumin and
  the allspice. In a jelly roll pan or on a tray coat the ribs
  generously with some of the chili sauce, reserving the remaining
  sauce in a small bowl, covered with plastic wrap and chilled for a
  least 8 hours or over night.
  
  Let the ribs stand at room temp. for 1 hour and grill them on an
  oiled rack set 5-6 over heat source for 6 min. on each side In a
  small saucepan simmer the reserved chile sauce for 3 min. and serve
  it with the ribs.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cajun Back Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Cajun/creol, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      4 lb Pork ribs
      3 tb Paprika
    1/2 ts Red pepper flakes
      1 tb Garlic powder
      2 ts Oregano
      2 ts Thyme
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/2 ts White pepper
    1/2 ts Cumin
    1/4 ts Nutmeg
 
  Combine all seasonings and dust all surfaces of ribs with mixture.
  Prepare medium-hot coals in covered grill, banking coals when hot.
  Grill ribs over indirect heat 1 to 1 1/2 hours, turning every 15
  minutes.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Lone Star Ribs And Bbq Sauce
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      3 lb Small pork ribs
      1    Part black pepper
      1    Part paprika
      3    Parts salt

MMMMM------------------------***SAUCE***-----------------------------
      1 pt Ketchup
  1 1/2 pt Water
    1/3 c  Flour
      1 tb Salt
      4 ts Sugar
  2 1/2 ts Paprika
  1 1/2 ts Pepper
  1 1/2 ts Chili powder
      1 tb Prepared mustard
  1 1/2 ts Liquid Barbecue SmokeAE
      1 c  Worcestershire sauce
 
  Season the ribs with above mixture. Place ribs on the grill in any
  type of covered smoker or bbq pit, keeping away from direct heat so
  that the smoke does the cooking. Cook very slowly for 1 1/2 to 2
  hours or until meat comes away from bone easily. during the last 15
  min. baste both sides of ribs with sauce. Cut ribs and serve.
  
  To make sauce, combine ketchup and water in a large pot and bring to
  boil. Mix dry ingredients. Add mustard, liquid smoke, and half the
  worcestershire sauce. Stir into paste; then add the remainder of
  worcestershire sauce. Pour this into heated mixture and boil slowly
  for 20 min. Refrigerate any unused portion. Keeps for several weeks.
  Makes about 1qrt.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Southern Spareribs
 Categories: Main dish, Meats
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 lb Pork spareribs  -- 2 pieces
      1 ts Salt
      1 ts Black pepper  -- freshly
           Ground
      1 cn Tomato juice  -- 6 ounce
      1 md Onion  -- finely chopped
           -about 1/2 cup -
    1/2 c  Cider vinegar
    1/2 c  Dark brown sugar  -- finely
           Packed
    1/4 c  Vegetable oil
      1 tb Worcestershire sauce
      1 ts Dry mustard
 
  1)  Season the ribs with salt and pepper and place them in a 17 by 12
  by 12inch disposable aluminum foil roasting pan.  Combine the
  remaining ingredients in a bowl and stir until thoroughly blended.
  Pour the marinade over the ribs, making sure the marinade coats all
  sides of them.  Cover and refrigerate 3 hours to overnight.
  
  2)  Preheat the oven to 350oF.  Cover the roasting pan with heavyduty
  aluminum foil and bake until the ribs are tender, about 1 hour.  Cut
  the ribs into 2 to 3 rib sections before serving and, if you like,
  skim some of the fat from the sauce before passing it around with the
  ribs.
  
  Recipe By     : Sylvia Woods
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: World Champion Bbq Ribs
 Categories: Bbq/grill, Meats
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           Pork backrib

MMMMM-----------------------***DRY RUB***----------------------------
      4 tb Paprika
      2 ts Salt
      2 ts Onion powder
      2 ts Black pepper
      2 ts White pepper
      1 ts Cayenne

MMMMM----------------------***BBQ SAUCE***---------------------------
      6 tb Salt ?
      6 tb Pepper
      6 tb Chili powder
      4 c  Ketchup
      4 c  Vinegar
      4 c  Water
      1 lg Onion  -- diced
    1/2 c  Molasses
 
  Dry Rub: Mix all ingredients together throughly.
  
  BBQ Sauce: Combine ingerdients in a large saucepan. Bring to a rolling
  boil, reduce heat and simmer 1 1/2 hours, stirring every 10min. or
  so. Pour into sterilized canning jars seal and let stand 2 to 6 weeks
  before use.
  
  Preparation: Spinkle dry rub liberally over ribs. allow to stand
  20-30 min. at room temperature until ribs appears wet. Prepare a
  smoker for long, slow (230x) indirect cooking, using hickory or other
  hard wood chips. Cook ribs, bone side down, for 2 hours at 230x in a
  smoker using indirect heat. Turn and cook for 2 hours more. Turn and
  cook one more hour. During the last 15min. baste with bbq sauce
  diluted by half with water(if a tomato or sugar based sauced is used
  for more than 15-30 min. it blackens and chars). Serve ribs with
  warmed, undiluted sauce onthe side. Winner of the 1991 World
  Championship BBQ cooking contest in Memphis, TN.
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: A Simple Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/4 c  Oil
    1/2    Lemon -- juice of
      1 sm Onion -- minced
    1/3 c  Ketchup
    2/3 c  Sugar
    1/2 ts Paprika
      1 ts (scant) salt
 
  Beat all ingredients together with a rotary beater or wire beater. Or
  you can put it in a jar, cover and shake well. this is a fine
  dressing to use on lettuce and fresh tomatoes.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Boiled Salad Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Butter
      2    Eggs
      2 ts Sugar
      1 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 c  Vinegar
 
  In the top of a double boiler put the butter, eggs, sugar, mustard,
  salt and pepper. Cook over very hot water until they begin to
  thicken. Stir in the vinegar and continue cooking 3 minutes. Remove
  from heat; beat occasionally while cooling. Keep in a coo l dark
  place. This dressing will remain good for several weeks.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Browning And Frying Onions
 Categories: Information, Indian, Vegetables
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           *****  NONE  *****
 
  Usually when an Indian recipe calls for golden brown or caramelized
  onions, the onions are browned in a fairly large amount of oil. Here
  is a method requiring very little oil using a non-stick pan.
  
  Slice the onions into very thin, even slices or chop the onions into
  small uniform pieces. heat about 1 tablespoon of oil over moderate
  heat. The amount of oil depends upon the amount of onions to be
  cooked. Stir the onions for 2 minutes. Reduce the heat to low. Add
  about 2 tablespoons of water and continue cooking, stirring
  constantly.
  
  If cooking large quantities, add additional water 1 tablespoon at a
  time if the onions begin sticking to the pan or fry too rapidly. This
  allows the natural moisture of the onions to be coaxed out while
  browning. Continue frying until the onions are golden brown. This
  process can take about 20 minutes. When simmered slowly, the onions
  add a rich dimension and melt into the sauce, thickening it as well.
  
  Brown fried onions can be prepared in large quantities and
  refrigerated or frozen and defrosted when needed. Once defrosted,
  they cannot be refrozen so it is best to package them in small
  quantities.
  
  Indian Light Cooking by Ruth Law ISBN 1-55611-389-7 pg 46
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cooked Salad Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 c  Sugar
      3 tb Flour
    1/2 ts Mustard
      1 ts Salt
    1/2 ts Paprika
    1/8 ts White pepper
      2    Eggs -- beaten well
    1/2 c  Vinegar
    1/2 c  Water
    1/4 c  Butter -- melted
 
  Mix dry ingredients thoroughly. Beat eggs in the top of a double
  boiler and add dry ingredients. Add vinegar and water slowly,
  stirring to keep the water smooth. Stir and cook until dressing is
  thick and smooth, about 10 minutes. Add the butter and mix we ll.
  Cool and store in the refrigerator. Use on potato, vegetable or mixed
  fruit salads.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Cream Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/2 ts Salt
      1 tb Flour
      1 ts Dry mustard
      1 tb Sugar
      2 tb Butter
      2    Egg yolks
    3/4 c  Cream
    1/4 c  Vinegar
 
  Mix flour, salt, mustard and sugar in the top of a double boiler. Add
  butter and stir til mixed. While beating, add the egg yolks; stir
  well. Add the cream and lastly the vinegar.cook over hot water until
  it thickens. Strain if necessary. chill and serve cold.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: French Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
    1/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Paprika
           OR
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Prepared mustard
      4 tb Olive oil
  1 1/2 tb Vinegar
 
  In a shallow dish, mix salt and pepper. Add the mustard and the oil;
  stir well to mix. Add the vinegar, a little at a time, beating the
  mixture continuously with a fork. Serve as soon as it is mixed well.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Horseradish Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Heavy cream
      1 tb Grated or evaporated
           Horseradish
      2 tb Lemon juice
           Salt & paprika
 
  Beat cream till quite thick; add horseradish. (If evaporated
  horseradish is used, mix it with a tablespoon cold water and allow it
  to be absorbed before adding it to the cream) Pour in lemon juice
  slowly, stirring constantly. Season, serve very cold. this is
  especially good with tomatoes.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Mayonnaise
 Categories: Condiments, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      1 c  Salad oil
      1    Egg
           OR
      2    Egg yolks
      2 tb Lemon juice
           OR
      2 tb Vinegar
           Salt and pepper
           Paprika
 
  Beat egg or egg yolks with a rotary beater until slightly thick; add 1
  teaspoon oil at a time beating well after each addition, until 1/3
  cup has been added. Add a few drops lemon or vinegar. The mixture
  should be quite thick and perfectly smooth. If it isn't you added the
  oil too quick or didn't beat it enough. Continue to add the oil and
  acid alternately until it's used up. Add seasonings to taste. Store
  covered in the refrigerator.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Preparing Cornish Hens
 Categories: Information, Poultry
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           *****  NONE  *****
 
  Boning:
  Begin by trimming the wings with a sharp knife or poultry shears,
  cutting the wings at the second joint. Add the trimmings to the
  roasting pan or save them for stock. Next, prop up the bird so it's
  vertical, with its back toward you. With a sharp knife, cut through
  the skin and flesh along the entire length of one side of the spine.
  Flip the bird around and repeat on the other side of the spine.
  Remove the backbone. This can also be added to the roasting pan or
  saved for stock. Use the tip of the knife to remove the little
  wishbone at the neck end and spread open the bird with the inside
  facing you. Find the whitish triangle of cartilage at the t ip of the
  breastbone and nick it with the knife. Now pick up the bird and bend
  it backward along the breastbone to crack it. Slide the tip of the
  knife or your finger under each side of the breastbone to loosen it,
  and then yank it out. Leave the ribs in place.
  
  Stuffing: To prepare for an under-the-skin stuffing, begin at the top
  of the breast and gently lift and pull the skin away from the flesh
  of the bird. Be very careful and very patient; game hen skin is
  delicate. Once you've separated the skin from the meat, use your
  fingers to gently force the stuffing between the meat and skin,
  pushing it back and around the breast and even down the thighs and
  legs, as you go. Try to keep the layer of stuffing s even as possible
  for a better shape and even cooking. Don't force too much under the
  skin (or fill the cavity with too much if you're using that method)
  since stuffing expands as it cooks.
  
  Fine Cooking April-May 1995
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salad And Wine
 Categories: Information, Salads
      Yield: 1 servings
 
           *****  NONE  *****
 
  A major problem in pairing salad and wine is the high acid levels of
  most vinaigrettes, which wreaks havoc on wine, making it taste flat
  and flabby. You can avoid this conflict by making dressings that are
  less sharp but still vivid, with some of the foll owing techniques:
  
  ~ Replace part or all of the red-or white-wine vinegar in a recipe
  with balsamic, sherry, or rice-wine vinegar, which have fuller,
  mellower flavors.
  
  ~ Use fruit juice instead of vinegar. Obvious choices might be lemon
  or lime juice, but think also of orange juice, apple cider, cranberry
  juice, or any fruit juice with a bright flavor.
  
  ~ Replace acidic ingredients with other liquids that are intense but
  not sharp, such as rich chicken, veal, fish, or vegetable stock,
  worcestershire sauce, soy sauce, juices from roasted ,eats or
  vegetables, or roasted garlic pure.
  
  When designing a salad, be sure to include ingredients that have a
  natural affinity to wine. They'll create the link that makes the
  combination work.
  
  ~ Herbs: Lots of wines have herbal notes, including Sauvignon Blanc,
  Cabernet Sauvignon, and Merlot.
  
  ~ Greens: Strong or peppery greens will want a wine with some
  spiciness to it, like Zinfandel or Petite Sirah.
  
  ~ Vegetables: Roasting vegetables concentrates their flavor and
  brings out their natural sweetness. Vegetables in this mellow state
  work well with deeper, richer wines like Zinfandel and barrel-aged
  Sauvignon Blanc. Grilled vegetables want a wine that "s een some oak:
  to link the toasty, woody flavors, so try a barrel-fermented
  Chardonnay. Mushrooms in particular make a salad more full-bodied and
  earthy, making a red wine, such as Pinot Noir welcome.
  
  ~ Fruit: So many fresh and dried fruit flavors and fragrances are
  found in wine that fruit is a natural bridge ingredient. Apple, pear,
  melon, and even tropical fruit flavors are common in Riesling,
  Chardonnay, Gewrztraminer, Sauvignon Blanc, or Smillon. Rip fresh
  berries and cherries dominate many Beajolais and Pinot Noirs, and
  even hearty Cabernets can have similar flavors. Dried fruit, like
  figs, dried cranberries, apricots, and raisins will link to wine with
  bright fruit notes, such as Grenache or Ga may.
  
  ~ Croutons: Toasted or grilled bread in a salad also works nicely with
  slightly oaky wines.
  
  ~ Nuts: Toasted nuts complement slight oaky, toasty wines.
  
  ~ Cheese: Wine and cheese is almost a clich, but why does it work so
  well? One reason is that the milk proteins in cheese tame the tannins
  and acidity in wine, making the combination smoother. If the cheese
  is very salty, like a blue cheese, pair it with a slightly sweet
  wine, such as an off-dry Riesling. Dry aged cheeses like Parmesan or
  Asiago, with their toasty, buttery flavors, link wonderfully to
  barrel-fermented and aged Chardonnays.
  
  ~ Meat, Seafood, Poultry: These ingredients can tame tannins and
  acids in the same way cheese does, and their fuller flavors and
  textures make a salad bolder and more substantial. Think of grilling
  these ingredients and going for an oakier wine.
  
  Fine Cooking June-July 1995
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Salad Dressing
 Categories: Salads, Dress/stuff, Oldies
      Yield: 1 servings
 
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Sugar
      2 ts Dry mustard
    1/2 ts Salt
    2/3 c  Vinegar
    1/3 c  Water
      2    Eggs -- well beaten
      1 ts Butter
 
  In a saucepan, mix flour, sugar, dry mustard and salt. Stir in the
  vinegar and water; add the eggs. Cook, stirring all the while, until
  thick. Add butter; chill. You may want to thin this with a little
  cream when ready to use, as it does get pretty thick.
  
  Many of the recipes in this collection did not contain amounts or oven
  temperatures. I have typed them in as they appear in the book, typos
  and all.
  
  Depression Era Recipes Patricia R. Wagner ISBN 0-934860-55-6 Entered
  by Carolyn Shaw 5-95
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Baked Salmon In White Wine
 Categories: Fish, Seafood
      Yield: 8 servings
 
      3 lb Salmon Fillet
    1/2 md Onion -- sliced 1/4" thick
      3    Shallots -- minced
      1 c  Mushrooms -- sliced
      1 tb Lemon Juice
           Salt And Pepper -- to
           Individual taste
        pn Nutmeg
        pn Cloves, Ground
           Dry White Wine
      2 tb Brandy
      2 tb Flour
      2 tb Soft Butter
        ds Cayenne
           Parsley Sprigs -- optional
           Lemon Slices -- optional
 
  Dry fish with paper towels.  Butter a large baking dish and arrange
  fish in it. Separate onions into rings. Scatter over fish. Combine
  shallots, mushrooms, lemon juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg and cloves.
  Sprinkle over fish and onions. Almost cover fish with wine.
  
  Bake at 350'F. for 20 to 30 minutes, or until fish flakes.  Remove
  from oven. With a baster, remove all cooking liquid to a small
  saucepaan. Reduce liquid over high heat to 1-1/4 cups.  Warm brandy
  in a ladle. Light it carefully. Pour flaming brandy into reduced
  liquid.
  
  Cream together flour and butter. Add to liquid. Stir mixture
  constantly over medium heat. When thick, add cayenne and pour over
  fish.
  
  Garnish with parsley and lemons.
  
  Recipe By     : Gary Watson <watson@rahul.net>
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Creamy Broccoli Bake
 Categories: Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      4 c  Broccoli flowerets -- OR
      1    16-oz pkg frozen broccoli
    3/4 c  Green or sweet red pepper --
           Chopped
    1/2 c  Onion -- chopped
    1/2 c  Carrot -- shredded
      2 tb Butter or margarine
      2 tb All-purpose flour
      1 tb Dijon mustard
      1 ts Worcestershire sauce
    1/8 ts Pepper
    1/2 c  Milk
      1 pk 3-oz. cream cheese -- cut up
    1/2 c  Sour cream
    1/3 c  Herb-seasoned stuffing cubes
           Slightly crushed
 
  In a large saucepan bring a small amount of lightly salted water to
  boiling.  Add broccoli, green pepper, onion, and carrot.  Return
  mixture to boiling; reduce heat.  Cover and simmer for 5-7 minutes or
  until the vegetables are crisp-tender.  Drain; set aside. Meanwhile,
  for sauce, in a medium saucepan melt butter.  Stir in flour, mustard,
  Worcestershire sauce and pepper.  Add milk all at once to flour
  mixture. Cook and stir till thickened and bubbly.  Cook and stir 1
  minutes more. Remove from heat. Stir in cream cheese till melted.
  Stir in sour cream and broccoli mixture. Spoon into a 1 1/2-puart
  casserole. Sprinkle with the crushed croutons. Bake in a 375F oven
  for 20-25 minutes or till heated through.
  
  Source: "Better Homes & Gardens Comfort Foods; Yesterday's and Today's
  Favorite Dishes"
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Gnocchi Au Gratin
 Categories: Vegetables, Potatoes, Pasta
      Yield: 12 servings
 
      4 c  Cold mashed potatoes
  1 1/2 c  All-purpose flour
      6    Egg yolks
      2 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
      1 ts Prepared mustard
 12 1/2 oz Shredded Parmesan cheese
      6 qt Hot water
      1 tb Salt
    1/2 c  Butter or margarine --
           Melted
 
  Start heating oven to 350F.  In a large bowl, combine mashed
  potatoes, flour, egg yolks, 2 tsp salt, pepper, mustard and 10 ozs
  shredded cheese. Meanwhile, in a large kettle, bring the hot water to
  a slow boil; add 1 tbs salt.  In large pastry bag, with large plain
  tube #8 in place, put some of potato mixture.  Holding bag over
  simmering water, force contents through tube, snipping it into 3/4"
  ;pieces of gnocchi with scissors. Cook gnocchi gently until they rise
  to surface, when they will be done. As gnocchi rise, remove at once
  with a slotted spoon; drain well on paper towels; place in buttered 1
  1/2-qt. shallow casserole; keep warm in oven. Repeat snipping,
  cooking, draining, and warming remaining dough until all is used up.
  Remove casserole from oven; turn broiler to Broil; pour butter over
  gnocchi, and sprinkle with remaining shredded cheese.  Broil till
  golden - about 5 minutes.
  
  Source:  Good Housekeeping Cookbook; edited by Dorothy B. Marsh;
  published
  
  by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.; 1963 Library of Congress Catalog
  Card Number: 63-15315
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Jamaican Yam Casserole
 Categories: Vegetables, Potatoes
      Yield: 2 servings
 
      1 cn 1-lb yams -- drained
    1/2 md Banana -- thickly sliced
    1/4 c  Orange juice
    1/2 ts Salt
    1/8 ts Pepper
      2 tb Pecans -- coarsely chopped
      2 tb Toasted flake coconut
 
  Start heating oven to 350F.  In a buttered 1-at casserole, arrange
  yams, banana.  Pour juice over all.  Sprinkle with salt, pepper.  Top
  with pecans and coconut.  Bake, covered, 30 minutes.
  
  Source:  Good Housekeeping Cookbook; edited by Dorothy B. Marsh;
  published
  
  by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.; 1963 Library of Congress Catalog
  Card Number: 63-15315
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Polish Mushrooms With Sour Cream
 Categories: Polish, Vegetables
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      6 tb Butter or margarine
      1 lg Onion -- chopped
      2 tb Flour -- minced
      2 tb Milk
  1 1/2 c  Sour cream
  1 1/4 lb Mushrooms -- sliced
    3/4 ts Salt
    1/4 ts Pepper
    1/4 ts Paprika
 
  In melted butter, in large skillet, saute onion till golden.
  Sprinkle with flour; add milk and 3/4 cup sour cream; while stirring,
  bring just to a simmer.  Then add sliced mushrooms, salt, pepper, and
  paprika.  Simmer, covered, 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.  Stir in
  remaining sour cream ; heat thoroughly, while stirring constantly.
  Serve at once.
  
  Source:  Good Housekeeping Cookbook; edited by Dorothy B. Marsh;
  published
  
  by Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc.; 1963 Library of Congress Catalog
  Card Number: 63-15315
  
  Recipe By     :
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Squash Puffs
 Categories: Appetizers, Vegetables
      Yield: 22 servings
 
      1 c  Squash -- cooked
      1    Egg -- beaten
    1/3 c  Flour
    1/3 c  Cornmeal
      1 ts Baking powder
    1/2 ts Salt -- or more
        ds Pepper
      1 md Onion -- grated
  1 1/2 c  Cooking oil
 
  Combine squash and egg.  Add all other ingredients except oil and mix
  until well blended.  Heat oil for deep frying.  Drop batter by level
  tablespoonful into hot oil.  Deep fry until golden brown.  Drain on
  paper towels.
  
  Source: " Favorite Recipes from Quilters" by Louise Stoltzfus
  
  Recipe By     : Norah Pledger
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Squash Casserole
 Categories: Vegetables, Casseroles
      Yield: 7 servings
 
      6 c  Summer squash -- sliced
    1/4 c  Onion -- chopped
      1 cn Cream of chicken soup
      1 c  Sour cream
      1 c  Carrots -- shredded
      1 pk 8-oz herb-seasoned stuffing
    1/2 c  Margarine -- melted
 
  Cook summer squash and onion in boiling water for 5 minutes.  Drain
  and set aside. Combine chicken soup and sour cream.  Stir in carrots.
  Fold in drained squash and onion.  In a separate bowl combine
  stuffing mix and margarine. Spread 1/2 stuffing mix in bottom of 8" x
  12" baking dish. Spoon vegetable mixture on top.  Sprinkle with
  remaining stuffing mix. Bake at 350F for 25-30 minutes or until
  heated.
  
  Source: " Favorite Recipes from Quilters" by Louise Stoltzfus
  
  Recipe By     : Carole M. Mackie
 
MMMMM
 
MMMMM----- Recipe via Meal-Master (tm) v8.02
 
      Title: Summer Vegetables And Cheese
 Categories: Vegetables, Cheese/eggs
      Yield: 6 servings
 
      1 sm Onion -- thinly sliced
      2 tb Cooking oil
      2 md Zucchini -- sliced
      2 md Yellow squash -- sliced
      3 md Tomatoes -- diced
      8 oz Mozzarella cheese -- grated
 
  Saute onion with oil in large skillet or wok.  Cook until clear.  Add
  zucchini and yellow squash and cook until just tender.  Add tomatoes
  and cheese and cook until cheese has just melted.  Serve immediately.
  
  Source: " Favorite Recipes from Quilters" by Louise Stoltzfus
  
  Recipe By     : Diana Huntress Deem
 
MMMMM
 
